ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities can do the favor of opening the galleries. Mrs. Members, our agenda for today is as follows: a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on matters of political, economic and social relevance, and discussion, with the participation of the Prime Minister, preparatory to the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. Bill No 344 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Set the new VAT rates to be applied in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and the motions for resolutions 112 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, 113 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the European Union own resources system ( 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom ), made in Brussels, 115 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on the Handling of Sports Competitions, opened for signature in Magglingen on 18 September 2014, and 116 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement concluded between the Portuguese Republic and Imamat Ismaili with a view to establishing its seat in Portugal, signed on 3 June 2015, are also scheduled but without time for discussion only for the purpose of voting. At the end of the sitting, there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Before we begin the fortnight debate, I give the floor to Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Maria Paula Cardoso, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 1000 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Pedro da Gafanhoeira, in the municipality of Arraiolos, Évora district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1001 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Justa, in the municipality of Arraiolos, Évora district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1002 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Gregório, in the municipality of Arraiolos, Évora district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1003 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Sabugueiro, in the municipality of Arraiolos, Évora district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1004 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Santa Maria, in the municipality of Lagos, Faro district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 1005 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of São Sebastião, in the municipality of Lagos, Faro district ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 1537 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In defence of the sustainability of the Tejo River ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which also falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u3	Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, to open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main set of conclusions of the IPEX report ( Interparliamentary EU information eXchange ) was presented at the Gulbenkian Foundation eight days ago, measuring the level of performance of around 38 developed countries regarding the policies for the reception and integration of immigrants. Portugal consolidated 2. the position in this group of 38 countries. When compared with the United States of America, Canada, Australia, South Korea and other European countries, such as Switzerland, Iceland and Norway, we are in 2. the place, in terms of performance, regarding policies of integration of immigrants, which is like who says of all those who seek our economy and our country to live and work. The last report had been submitted in 2010 and at that time Portugal consolidated a 2. the position. We have now improved in this ranking by obtaining another point of reference, and this is important, because it has passed over a whole period which has not been a period of any kind, it has been a period of strong economic and social crisis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u5	This means that Portugal, despite the crisis, has managed to improve the way in which immigrants residing in Portugal are integrated. At the end of next week we will know the data of this report in detail, which will be presented in Brussels, but I believe that these first ones, which have already been revealed, show that Portugal has not invested important policies in a cosmopolitan and open society, where they live with political balance in response to internal needs but also in the reception and integration of those who seek us, dealing with the fact that it deserves to be emphasized, especially since our improvement in these four years has also largely been due to measures taken against discrimination and domestic violence. I therefore believe that the country is pleased that it has managed, despite the crisis, to improve its integration policies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As I have already mentioned publicly, now that the worst crisis is over, it is time to prepare ourselves to make a more significant reception of people who need to be relocated or re-installed, whether at the level of asylum policy or immigration, at the same time that we should begin to prepare ourselves to welcome all those who, being Portuguese, have sought other economies in order to be able to respond to employability. It is time, therefore, to begin preparing our structures and policies to extend reception to immigrants, but also to welcome those who, being Portuguese, begin today to see better conditions to return to the Portuguese economy and Portugal. Secondly, I would like to highlight a number of indicators that have been accumulated and which seem to me to be significant, especially at the stage we are living. We have noticed, on the economic side, a set of indicators that have been improving the country's macroeconomic performance. We know that investment is growing, that, within the framework of internal search, it was of the elements that showed greater dynamism, and that the data of the 1. the quarter shows that net exports have again made a positive contribution to growth. Knowing that a significant part of imports are also destined for investment goods, this means that we can be in a new cycle, not vicious but virtuous, of our growth and our economic recovery. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u6	That is why the data show the growth of the economy and not an involution to recessive aspects, on the contrary, we are consolidating the growth of the economy and, I know, we are also growing from the point of view of employment, which is significant, because it relativizes the discussion that has been conducted around the explanation on the low unemployment rate. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u7	There is therefore no doubt that we have been improving and significantly improving from the point of view of employment. And indeed, in terms of the European Union and the euro area, we have been the second country to show a higher rate of employment growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u9	I think these are important aspects that we have to underline. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But I am referring only to the fact that Portugal today is seen as an economy that is recovering and as a country that, having gained credibility, can position itself in the heart of Europe as a worthy of trust. at a time when so many uncertainties arose in the euro area and therefore also in the European Union, I think it is worth considering that Portugal can be seen as a country that will not be caught by the uncertainty and the materialisation of risks in the euro area, insofar as it is prevented, from financial cashing, in order to cope for a long time with any volatility of the markets, but also because Portugal is seen as a trusted partner that will surely be covered by the defence mechanisms of the euro area, which will never cease to be activated in case of need. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, I think it's reasonable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that this does not happen by chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u10	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u11	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u12	If the Government in many circumstances had decided, as some had claimed, to adopt a position of greater ease, it would have been in relation to the policies that would have to guarantee an internal devaluation, which would guarantee us the necessary adjustment, that it would be in relation to budgetary policies, that we would have to guarantee primary surpluses—which show with great vigor that Portugal is on the right path to see not only reducing the debt stock, but also the ratio of public and private indebtedness—we would probably be in conditions of great anxiety today. [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u14	It is therefore at times of greater uncertainty that the security, prudence and reliability of the policies that have been pursued should be most appreciated. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Today we know that, contrary to what happened in 2010, when Greece, for the first time, needed to ask for external aid and when the clock began to count for other countries to follow this request for external aid, because they do not have the conditions to access the markets and cannot honour their commitments because of that, unlike this scenario in 2010, although no one wants this uncertainty and these risks, in fact the euro area exhibits a much greater resilience condition with Portugal or Ireland not to be desperate, anxious, eager to know how long they will have to ask for external aid if any risk, especially from Greece, is to materialise. In conclusion, Mr. President and Mr. Members, saying that what we are living today is certainly not a desirable scenario either for the stability of the euro area or Europe, nor for the Portuguese. But we must win that if we today view this uncertainty and these risks with greater security and confidence, this is due to a preparation work that has not been done for half a year but started four years ago. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In all the evaluations we did during the time of the troika, while the troika was here, we were preventing Portugal from being surprised by bad news in other countries, as sometimes happened, programming every day the reforms needed to make Portugal a country of recovery of its economy and a reliable partner in the European Union. Today, we can say that it was the right strategy that certainly placed us today... [[Protests by PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] ... on the edge of a security which we would never have had we followed the suggestions, the appeals and even the requests for a decision which the opposition in Portugal has requested during these four years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u15	To put your questions, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u16	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on the question of Greece, we would certainly like to hear what you think is at stake at this time, what are the proposals of Greece, which are the proposals of the troika, or of the formerly so-called troika, and what is the position that Mr Prime Minister will take on next Monday at this crucial summit for the future of Greece, Europe, and also Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u17	Regarding the reception of immigrants in Portugal, Mr Prime Minister said, and very well, that this is the continuation of a work that has deserved the most varied praise of international institutions over the years, in fact at a time when there were much more immigrants to reach Portugal. currently, unfortunately, the migration balance is negative. There are far fewer immigrants coming to Portugal and, although work is a positive job, we recognize it, it is easier to do a positive job with fewer people than with many people, as happened before. I would like to recall that the Constitutional Court has recently defined as unconstitutional a measure by the Government which sought to severely limit the access of immigrants to social income for inclusion. So every thing in its proper place. Mr. Prime Minister continues in this logic of self-reliance. In fact, not only Mr Prime Minister, because one of the main promoters and promoters of your government's policy said a few days ago that the results are in sight. Indeed, on that same day, very important results were seen at two levels: the results of the population, published by INE, concerning 2014, the year that Mr. Prime Minister said it was of great turn, and the report of the Portuguese Observatory on health systems. About the population, it is the portrait of the country to which we have arrived: a huge degradation of the demographic indicators. In four years Portugal lost 200 000 people, while in the previous four years 40 000 had increased the presence in Portugal, therefore, is completely different ; a brutal fall of birth, the largest of the European Union, the largest of the 28 of the European Union, and a migration balance... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Yes, quite! Five times as much as it was in the previous four years, I repeat, five times as much, that fall of birth! But I described the portrait of the country to which we arrived: a negative migration balance, which has been developing since 2011. In addition, 2014, this year of the turn for Mr. Prime Minister, was the year of the greatest wave of ever emigration, because they emigrated 134 624 Portuguese, three times more than in previous years. And with regard to the health report, the fundamental question that arises is that health guaranteed by the State is a threatened right: there are a number of moderate rates that remove patients; there are poorly distributed doctors; there is a shortage of nurses; only 30% of the tens of thousands of older people in bed are that they have any assistance from the State; many patients have no chance of buying medicines, due to lack of money, that is not to mention the emergency situation. Therefore, the country of Mr. Prime Minister, the country of government and the President of the Republic is not the country of Portuguese. Portugal defines and you celebrate. That is the reality of the facts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, the following: for when is a realistic analysis by the government, which points to the failure of austerity policies? Unlike what you say, austerity policies, here and in other countries, have been a failure. In fact, to speak in numbers, I mean that GDP per capita in Portugal, expressed in purchasing power parities in 2014 was 78 % of the European Union average ; it has already been 81 % and these 78 % are the worst in the last series since there are results in our century. I also ask you, Mr Prime Minister, when you are planning a serious analysis of the problems of the deficit, not forgetting the public debt, that you recognise the role of the European Central Bank and the Constitutional Court in the improvement that has actually taken place in recent months, and that you are talking about employment, but without spreading the strategy of precarious employment, which often leads to stages that do not even respect the fundamental rights of people? Finally, I would like to ask you this: when will the Government send the amendment to the stability programme to Brussels? You also now say that you do not want to cut anything into social security, that these 600 million euros are not to cut — not 600 million or less than 600 million — and therefore ask you to send the amendments to the stability programme to Brussels quickly, where this cut of 600 million is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u18	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u19	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, it really seems that we do not live in the same country because the government has come to recognize the problems that remain. Every time there is an international report that draws attention to these problems, we not only recognize the existence of these liabilities, of those responsibilities, which have accumulated, as we have added, in line with the conclusion in these reports, that this only obliges us to be more determined in pursuing a policy of responsibility, because that is what it is, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u21	If we need to have a more favourable debt ratio, we need to have more significant primary surpluses, we need to have even better budgetary results. We do not need the 11% deficit that the Socialist Party has left! [[Well, well...]] [[Well, well...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u22	We need to have budgetary surpluses such as those which this government, in primary terms, has come to recognize for the country, and which will also move on to budgetary surpluses at the end of the next legislature. [[PS protests.]] We know that, Mr President. But at least we are consistent: we say that the way we have come is the way that allows the country to recover, as it has been recovering. And without this recovery it is not possible to end liabilities, it is not possible to combat unemployment, it is not possible to create conditions for the financing of our economy under more favourable conditions. But the Socialist Party, no! The Socialist Party continues to say that the path we have made is wrong, despite evidence, as if the country was in recession, as if unemployment was rising, as if employment was declining, as if Portuguese society, both in social and economic terms, had signs of deterioration and not improvement. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u23	In fact, we cannot live in the same country when we do not have the same eyes free to look at the problems. Mr. Deputies only like to see the liabilities,... [[PS Ferro Rodrigues' laughs.]] ...a part of them, of course, come from the responsibility that the Socialist Party has given us. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u24	I, sir, see everything: I see the liability we inherited, I see the policies we made and the impact they had and I see the recovery that the country is making. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u25	Why is it that you just like to point out what is wrong and you don't want to underline the important aspects? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Yesterday we learned from INE data that the economic climate indicator has risen to a maximum of seven years, I repeat, the economic climate indicator has risen to a maximum of seven years! Mr President, of course this is not our country! For the Socialist Party, that does not belong to Portugal! Open... Mr President, I would urge you to say that I do not understand Azedum and, even, the fact that the Socialist Party expresses its criticism of both the Government and the President of the Republic because they emphasize the positive aspects of our performance as a country and why it confuses this with self-reliance. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] The honourable Member would probably think that political prospects for the Socialist Party would be better if they were worse for the country if we were worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u26	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u27	Perhaps this accentuated the need for a change in government. If the country is better, is there such a great need to change government? ...I understand the drama of opposition. [[PS Members' laughs.]] I repeat, I understand the drama of opposition. But, Mr, it is not for the country to be worse than the Socialist Party will have more possibilities. Moreover, the Socialist Party, when it presented its macroeconomic scenario, came to make the greatest praise that can be made to the policies of these four years of government,... [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u28	... came to see that the future would be much better—of course, with a Government of the Socialist Party! But this « much better », when we see in detail, is « a little better » than the projections of the government itself. in practice, what the Socialist Party says is that it will remove everything that smells austerity faster. The Socialist Party did not want any austerity here; now, it wants to remove it faster, because it says that « it is wrong! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, it was for the courage we had — the Portuguese and the sovereign bodies — not to do what was easy for us today to look at the environment of risk and uncertainty that we live in Europe with a calmness that your party did not have when, in the government, it had to ask for external help. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u29	To reply, you have the floor Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u30	I know, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u31	I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I got the impression that Mr. Prime Minister had finished. Please continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u32	I understand, Mr President, but I will conclude by telling Mr Ferro Rodrigues that the Minister of Health has been in Parliament this week to realise what these four years of health policy have been and I think he has made a very enlightening intervention. But, honourable Member, there is nothing more enlightening than seeing what has been the evolution of the reports of the Portuguese Health Systems Observatory over these years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] when we see this, we verify which observatories have impartiality in the way they make their observations and those who do not. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, partial observations that ignore reality and data, such as those from the Health Policy Observatory, I have known them for a long time since I am in government. But only since I've been in the government, Mr! [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] I did not see this bias of the Observatory during the periods when we showed the positive results we showed, but I saw this bias before I arrived at the government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u33	Now, yes, you have the floor to reply, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u34	Mr. Prime Minister, there is no Azedume. The only question that exists is that you would like to be evaluated — reformulated, you, the coalition and its government — only for what has happened since the European Central Bank changed its policy... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u35	... and since the Constitutional Court obliged them to take certain measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But you will be evaluated for the four years. They're not going to be evaluated for half a year or a year, they're going to be evaluated for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u36	And go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u37	And I tell you: GDP in 2015 will be EUR 10 billion less than what you committed to in 2011. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u38	That is the great assessment! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister spoke in times of urban myths surrounding him. I ask the following question: in 2010 will it be an urban myth what you said, i.e., that the privatisation policy in Portugal would be criminal in the coming years if you were only to sell assets to the waste to get money? Oh, my God! [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] That's what you're doing with TAP. We have said that the State must maintain effective control of the TAP and we continue to wait for a world of documents that the country does not know: the financial assessments of the TAP, the cost/benefit studies, the audit of operational problems, the procedures for selecting legal and financial consultants. Mr Prime Minister, would you like to ask you a number of specific questions: is it not true that the State will first negotiate debt? Is it not true that the State will guarantee debt, as the Minister for Economic Affairs said? Is it not true that the State will give significant support to the quotas and to the labor, tax and legal processes of the Brazilian maintenance company, which has the most problems? Is it not true that the consortium intends to sell or transfer the position of TAP on the new A350 planes, abdicating to fly to China? Is it not true that the Brazilian State, through the National Bank for Economic and Social Development, is presented as a partner and possible future shareholder of the grouping? The question is whether most of the capitalisation presented by the Gateway Group is made with current TAP assets or currently available funding sources for TAP. If the capitalisation forms, which are planned, are now available for TAP with public capital, why not keep the majority of public capital in the TAP, Prime Minister? That's what I'm asking you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u39	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u40	Mr. President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, the Socialist Party is against the privatisation of TAP. We know that. It's against!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u41	Now you're against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u42	But it is not consistent, because the Socialist Party, in 1997 / 1998, being in the government at the time, sought a privatisation operation for TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u43	40 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u44	That's unquestionable. Why? Because everyone knows, over these years, what has happened to all flag companies in Europe. And this is known in Portugal almost 20 years ago. With regard to TAP, it is known that there is either a successful privatisation operation or the company, as we know it, ends. The government did what you did in the Memorandum of Understanding. He said there that by the end of the year, if market conditions would allow it, the government would undertake to take further the privatisation policy and privatize TAP as well. It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u45	That's not what's written there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u46	You have made this commitment and now you want to make it as if it did not exist. I know that this was written there and that they put him there in a bad way! We know, moreover, that the Socialist Party did a lot of bad things and that, like other governments, if I could not do what I said I was going to do, I would not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u48	We know that! The whole country knows! But this does not authorize the Socialist Party to launch mud, suspicions, for a process of privatization like this which we are doing. That, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, is intolerable! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The government started the privatisation process of TAP in very good time. It failed to conclude in 2012, as its intention was, and sought the appropriate market conditions to relaunch the privatisation operation. This happened last year and in December was published the decree-law that relaunched the privatisation operation and its terms. The resolution of the Council of Ministers, which followed it, determined the terms in which privatisation was to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u50	We are following exactly what is in the law and in the Council of Ministers resolution. All the suspicions that you have raised on this case are rejected, in particular by the President of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u51	Answer the questions there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u52	Therefore, Mr President, do not take advantage of Parliament to launch more suspicions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u53	Take advantage of Parliament to answer the questions, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u54	What we are doing in the process of privatization of the TAP is strictly what is provided for in the decree-law and in the book of charges. Nothing else. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u55	Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u56	Mr President, if you consider that specific questions, which you do not want to answer, are suspicions, that is highly suspected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u58	In fact, there is another question I also wanted to ask you about the Port Metro. Mr. Prime Minister no longer has time, but as he normally uses the response time to other parties to respond to the PS, I ask. I would like to ask you whether it is true that the Spanish consortium took financial compensation from the contracts it signed with the public company in relation to the orderbook and that there was a change to the orderbook, which means that the competitors concerned did not benefit from the same conditions as the winner. There were 20 amendments in clear violation of the competition principle. This is not suspicions, it is a concrete question that is accompanied by many people in the Port region, including by the City Hall. Mr. Prime Minister spoke, as I said recently, of the urban myths about his words. I would like to ask you if some of these phrases are urban myths: March 30, 2011, « (...) taxes have a recessive effect on the economy. The idea which has been generated in Portugal that the PSD will increase VAT has no basis(...) ». Is this an urban myth, Prime Minister? October 25, 2011 : « (... ) we know that we will only get out of this situation by impoverishing (...) ». Is this an urban myth, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u60	You don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u61	February 2012 : « (...) we must be demanding, let us not be bended (...) ». Is this an urban myth, Prime Minister? Also in February, « (...) it is curious that the programme(... ) that we presented last year and that which is our government programme does not have a very large dissonance with what came to be the Memorandum of Understanding(...) ». Is this also an urban myth, Prime Minister? Is it also a myth that you very much liked the Memorandum of Understanding, Prime Minister? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u62	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, is it an urban myth that you said in December 2014 « (...) the crisis did not aggravate inequalities(...) »? I said this when everything is there to show from the OECD to the European Union that inequalities have increased and much?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u64	You don't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u65	The urban myths that you define are words that deny it to yourself. It is regrettable, Mr Prime Minister, that for four years you have said these and many other phrases, which could be brought to the colloquium, to make the policies that you have made and which have led the country to the state in which you are and which we consider to be extremely negative for Portuguese and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u66	Mr. Prime Minister no longer has time to answer. It will certainly take advantage of Mr Ferro Rodrigues' suggestion to be able to provide some clarification on these matters. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u67	Mr President, Prime Minister, you spoke here about a report on health systems. Because the Spring Report of the respective Observatory indicates less consultations in primary health care, that moderate rates are hampered by access to health, which there are difficulties in access to medicines due to reduced purchasing power. But when I heard it, it seems that there is no such thing, Prime Minister. Where is the truth after all? Is this report false? My second question has to do with elements that the INE presented, in particular some estimates regarding the population. What is most important is the fact that, in four years, some half a million Portuguese left our country, i.e. 485 000 Portuguese who had to emigrate. And they emigrated because there was no way out for their lives here. Now, these data, in order to have the exact dimension, are even higher than the outbreak of emigration that existed in the 1960s.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u69	Here you are, Prime Minister. Many times, we have had third arguments about employment, unemployment, which rises one tenth, which goes down one tenth, and we have always put the problem of the factor of emigration which weighs substantially on these unemployment or employment rates. Does he not consider Mr. Prime Minister — anyone doubt? — that the overwhelming majority of about 135 000 immigrants in 2014 were unemployed or young people who had long been looking for employment? Mr. Prime Minister, whether you like it or not, these are facts. You talked about immigration, I'm talking about immigration. in a move that we made to Dusseldorf, I was asked by a young immigrant to find himself, taking into account the promises of the government, who were meeting the conditions to return to Portugal to restore his life. I wasn't able to give you that assurance, Prime Minister, although I would very much like you to come back. But what is significant is that, at the moment you are speaking with so much force and so much propaganda that we are now on the brink of a happy ending, we are on the right path,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u70	And we are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u71	There are no guarantees that these about half a million Portuguese, many of them formed here, with the inherent costs, and that the other countries receive at zero cost, can return to their homeland. Say, Prime Minister, whether or not it is true that these immigrants are essentially the result of not finding a way to organize their lives in your country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u72	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u73	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, access to health as well as, in general, the purchasing power that the Portuguese had during the times of crisis was affected by the crisis. That seems obvious to me. It is not necessary to cite studies from an observatory of an ex-Director-General of the Socialist Party in order to reach this conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u74	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u75	We know that the crisis has existed in Portugal and, for many families, this situation is still dramatic today. A family with people who are unemployed and who, in the meantime, no longer have the unemployment insurance coverage, of course, is experiencing a difficult situation. And it's something that still covers many families in Portugal, Mr. The government does not hide anything, nor does it advertise with one thing and the other. The Government has an obligation to see the situation in the country and this is still a difficult situation for many families. Of course, the crisis was reflected in Portuguese life prospects, but not in terms where opposition has often drawn attention. For example, Mr President, with regard to medicines, we know that more medicines have been sold, dispensed, in recent years than in previous years. With the crisis, more drugs, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u76	By spending less!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u77	It was therefore medicinal products that, when generics had a more affordable price — prices fell almost 50 % in the generics area — and prices were also generally more favourable in medicines. On average, prices are estimated to have fallen by around 27 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u78	What about people's purchasing power?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u79	Mr, we have not had inflation in these years, people with lower incomes have not been affected by any cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u80	That's good! [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u81	People with lower incomes were not affected by cuts. It's true! [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] What? The gentlemen. Do you also think it's an urban myth? [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet so that you can hear Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u83	I'll say it again. I don't know if this fits well in your rhetoric, but people with lower incomes have not been affected by cuts, neither in the Public Service, nor in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u84	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u85	It's true! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, Mr Jerome de Sousa, if more medicines have been sold, if the drugs are cheaper than before, does he think that this is a restriction on access to medicines? It's not! [[PCP protests.]] The same for the health system, which recorded, either in terms of surgeries or consultations, or all other acts that are practiced in the National Health Service, a greater number than in previous years. Is that bad, sir? Oh, my God! Life expectancy has increased. Is it bad, sir? Most of the health indicators have improved. Is that bad, sir? It's not. But he says that those who emigrated would probably be unemployed workers. Having agreed with you, Mr President, of course. Emigration in Portugal has increased in recent years, although INE said yesterday that permanent emigration had decreased in 2014, says the INE, in fact, between 2005 and 2007, some 82 000 individuals per year, I repeat, between 2005 and 2007. Between 2011 and 2013, they emigrated about 95 000 per year. Mr President, the idea that in Portugal we have only started to have immigration with this crisis is false. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u86	It's five times more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u87	Secondly, it is false that in Portugal there has been more emigration than in other countries that have experienced circumstances similar to ours. in Ireland, the migration balance was more serious ; in Spain, the migration balance was more serious. Mr President, I do not want to « cover the sun with the sieve ». When the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen hear what is not your rhetoric, they make noise. It's a way of being. I always hear the ladies very carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, I really like to hear your arguments, but then I'm supposed to be given the chance to beat them. The members of the Portuguese Communist Party know that, as a result of the adverse economic conditions, Portugal is in a position today to say — and I hope that you can say it when you return to Dusseldorf — that, fortunately, the conditions of recession and strong adjustment that the country has passed are not today the conditions in which we live and therefore we have increasingly better conditions for those who have gone out to return and for those who are here need not leave. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u88	To reply, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u89	Mr President, Prime Minister, I wanted to start with a side note. I don't think it's good to talk about a report made by a professor at the University of Évora and try to say it's from the Socialist Party. That means that good, good reports are always those that come from your party area. It is a bad principle, Mr. Prime Minister, it is a bad principle. [[PSD protests.]] But in any case, in relation to the question of medicines, Mr Prime Minister, of course, that with the increase in the cost of living, with the increase in VAT, with the loss of purchasing power of people, of course that access to medicines becomes more difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u91	Why not put in these accounts the increase in the cost of living, the increase in taxes, including VAT, that blind tax?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u92	Which VAT? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u93	Which VAT? Mr Prime Minister, the VAT which increased food prices, in particular, and then people have to make choices, of course! They either eat or buy drugs. Do we not know that this is the case, that there are thousands of families who have to make these accounts, particularly older families, because they do not have money or to eat or buy drugs? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u95	As far as emigration is concerned, I give you only this example, Prime Minister. Of course there was emigration before, but in these four years the number of migrants is equivalent to that of the Coimbra district being completely empty of people, taking into account these levels of emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u97	But, Prime Minister, quickly, I would like to ask you the question of TAP. Your answers did not convince you. You've already noticed the government's rush to sell the country to the play, because it's defeated but you want to show service before you leave the scene. However, contrary to what the Prime Minister said here and which the Minister for Economic Affairs says, there is no climate of suspicion or insinuation, there is a need for the Government to bring information to this House of the Republic, inform the country, inform, by law, the workers' organisations of the TAP, about this process. Give this clarification and you'll see that the suspicion and insinuation ends. We expect this to be done, particularly at the Assembly of the Republic. But how do they still want to take forward a process of privatization with these borders that are known, to the detriment of the country and the national interest? How can they continue to defend what everyone has already realized does not serve the interests of the country? It serves only the interests of the Luso-American consortium which was constituted on purpose only to circumvent the rules of the European Union. Mr. Prime Minister, we repeat what we have already said: for the PCP, there is no good price to sell TAP, nor a percentage of sales that is good or acceptable to the country. And it is unacceptable to hear a Prime Minister say, with so much disembarkation, that «it is better to save half TAP than to go the rest to bankruptcy». Mr. Prime Minister, we know what it means to try to cut by half. It is the principle of the end, that is what this government wants. I hope that the Portuguese, because they have the right and the choice to say no to this government, will shortly save TAP on behalf of the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u98	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u99	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I would like to take this opportunity to explain that, taking away the recomposition of the VAT cassation envisaged in the Memorandum of Understanding, there was no increase in VAT rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u100	Pulling? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u101	The Government has not increased VAT rates and therefore... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u102	What about electricity?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u103	What about the water?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u104	Mrs. Members, I ask for silence so that you may hear Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u105	...it will certainly not pass the idea that the government has been increasing VAT when the government has not moved to VAT. There was only — this is known and happened right at the beginning of the legislature —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u106	And that doesn't count? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u107	... the recomposition of the cassation of goods and services that was fixed in order to ensure a financial result that was estimated and that it was almost all achieved with the reclassification of the electricity VAT. Therefore, Mr, there was no increase in VAT, there was what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u108	But, then, there has always been!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u109	Mr. Deputy says the government wants to sell TAP in a hurry and in a piece. Mr President, I know that for the Portuguese Communist Party the public business sector is vital, cannot be alienated and should preferably be extended. It is not our opinion, it is not, at all, the opinion of most of the country over the years. We will sell TAP in accordance with the law and, as I have already had the opportunity to reply to Mr Ferro Rodrigues, the sale of TAP is provided for in decree-law, there is a follow-up committee that checks all the proceedings and all the documents and all the negotiating documentation are available to the bodies themselves to do this research.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u110	Send the papers here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u111	There is no rush, Mr President, we are meeting a timetable that has been very clear since the end of last year. So we're not in a hurry and we're not selling to the wreck. But we're gonna save the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u112	Don't go, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u113	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. Let me just say the following: if you, as well as any other Member, want to hold a debate on the privatisation of TAP and call on the government member responsible for this process to Parliament, you can do so. Not at all, the gentlemen. Members do nothing but call the members of the government to Parliament or the committees. There is no lack of transparency, Mr President. The Government is proceeding in this privatisation as it has done in relation to all privatisations, not in a better or worse way, in the same way, with the same transparency, with the same regularity and with the same exemption. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u115	Lack of transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u116	To make requests for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor of Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, I was not going to start here but, in fact, I cannot hear what I have heard and remain silent. Mr. Prime Minister came here with another urban myth, the urban myth that people with lower incomes were not affected by the policies of this government, by the cuts of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u118	for the cuts? Oh, my God! Say a cut! To whom? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u119	So, I want to remind you of some cuts: cut in social income of insertion, cut in social supplement for the elderly, cut in unemployment benefit, increase in light VAT, increase in supported income. And it could go on. Yes, the majority of you have harmed, and much, people with lower incomes. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Most PSD/CDS have increased poverty in Portugal and today one in four people in Portugal is poor and lies about this is a deep insult to human dignity. That is why this is not the subject under discussion, and I cannot remain silent about it. But let's go, Mr. Prime Minister, to the question I have to ask you. Does Mr. Prime Minister remember having sold the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo for about a year?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u120	Good subject!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u121	at the time, the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo had a problem: they had no orders. The Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo had no orders, they did not know how to do anything, the Government, the Ministry of National Defence — although the Navy said it would be a bad idea — decided, even to cancel contracts for the construction of patrol ships because there were no conditions to do in the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. And then, Mr Prime Minister, I have not yet answered the question about the privatisation negotiations that I made to you in the last 15-day debate, just a few days ago, is already in the Diário da República another shameful negotiation of the government against the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u122	Keep trying in your tongue!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u123	On 8 June, a direct adjustment was published in the Diário da República—see what they said about transparency and direct adjustments, Mrs and Mrs. of the Government and of the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen! — with the private company that bought the shipyards of Viana do Castelo, worth EUR 77 million. Before privatization, the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo could not do the patrol ships; after privatization see what their government says in the Diário da República : « Viana do Castelo is the one with the human and technical means, it is the only entity that has the special technical skills and structurally imposed by the specificity of the shipbuilding of this type of vessel to build them in good time». When it was public, this company was not worth anything; now that it is privatized, by direct adjustment, it is delivered to it EUR 77 million. [[It's a shame!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u124	I want Mr. Prime Minister to explain to me how the government's action can be nothing but an active boycott to a public company to then deliver millions of euros from the public record in a private negotiation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u125	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u126	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am going to say again what I said recently and which, in the light of the foregoing, has so much bothered Mrs Deputies : there were no pensioners or public servants with lower incomes who had been the subject of any cut in income. The crisis in Portugal existed and affected everyone. There was no government, contrary to what the honourable Member said, no cuts in the CSR, no cuts in unemployment benefit,... [[BE's protests.]] There wasn't, there wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u127	There!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u128	In fact, it didn't. The amendments that were introduced were intended only to ensure that those who needed the most were supported. There was no change in conditions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, Mrs. Deputy, about lies, I hope we're talking. About the National Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo, as I have mentioned, I must say that during all the time they had activity they accumulated high liabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u129	Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u130	With one exception, they did not have positive results in any of the operations they carried out, of construction or repair. In other words, the activity that was carried out in the company was detrimental to the company, whether with public orders, or with private orders. When I took the position of Prime Minister, there was a study prepared by the former Government that provided for the restructuring of the company with the possibility — I must say with the need — of being able to negotiate the dismissal of some 600 workers and, of course, the rejection of more capital in the company. However, we had doubts, first of all, that an operation of these would be possible in so far as this would constitute unlawful State aid. And it has been confirmed that those who had been made, not by this government, but by the previous government, were in fact illegal and that the company would have to sacrifice the state at an amount that could amount to almost EUR 300 million, more specifically EUR 280 million. The best option could be taken by this government. And this is evidence today of the fact that those who, leaving the shipyards, have retired and those who have gone out with compensation still in active time are practically all or again working in the area of shipbuilding and ship repair or can come to do so very quickly. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, Mrs. Member, you chose a wrong subject to show your point of view. Your point of view is that there is a negotiation here. Mrs. Deputy, but there is no negotiation here! We saved employment, shipbuilding and ship repair in Viana do Castelo, although we had a need to make the sub-concession of this activity by public tender, transparently. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u131	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u132	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is not worth saying everything. There must be some minimums in our debate. Mr. Prime Minister cut the social income of insertion, cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly, cut the unemployment allowance. And a little while ago I forgot: you know what cut off so violent? The sickness allowance! Even the allowance for the sick the government has cut! He cut, yes, the weakest, the weakest, the poorest. It's not worth saying everything, Prime Minister. It's not worth it! But, Mr. Prime Minister, let's talk about the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo. I just haven't figured it out yet! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It is that, Mr. Prime Minister, what the Government said was that the Estaleiros did not have the right to work, but now the Estaleiros may already have a direct adjustment. Does it remind you of anything the expression 'direct adjustment'? I don't know if you remember, but you did a whole electoral campaign saying it was against direct adjustments. Now, the government made a direct adjustment of EUR 77 million to the private company that bought the Estaleiros. It's just that the Estaleiros, when they were public, were bad, but now, because they're already private, they're already good. Therefore, when the Stalers were public the State canceled the contract; then sold the Stalers to a private company; now the State makes direct adjustments to that private company. Moreover, Minister Aguiar Branco, who was never able to even go to Viana do Castelo when he was selling the Estaleiros, has now already been to Angola to try to arrange contracts for the private company that bought the Viana do Castelo Naval Stalleros. This is negotiated! This is an attack on the public interest! Mr. Prime Minister, says the Chief of the Army Staff that all this corresponds to the view that the Government has superior private management when it is funded by the public record. These are not my words, they are from Admiral Melo Gomes, Chief of the Army's Major State between 2005 and 2010, which says precisely this : « The Government has the view of the superiority of private management when it is funded by the public record ». I do not have much more time, but I ask you, Prime Minister : and does the Lisbon Transport company already exist? Or in these privatizations, as happened at the Viana Castle Shipyards, is it just negotiated, and the whole negotiation is all right? And now, with regard to the collective transport of port and Lisbon, which are also being privatized, you have something called « Transportes de Lisboa », which will distribute EUR 130 million to the private who are left with the grant of transport. And so that whoever is listening to us, you understand, is like the PPPs of the ex-SCUT: pass car or not pass, the state always pays. in this case it is the same : we walk on the metro or on the bus or not the state will also pay, through a company that does not yet exist, called « Transportes de Lisboa ». Or does it exist? And is it today, Prime Minister, that you're going to tell us what's going to happen to TAP's debt? With regard to this debt, Minister Pires de Lima has already "put his feet through his hands" to explain how it will be paid and has not yet been able to do so. The TAP's debt is the excuse for privatizing the TAP, which will end up being restructured, with the help of the State, when it is already in the hands of the privates, because while it is public, this government does not « stir a straw » to defend it because it does not « stir a straw » to defend the country—is only private negotiations. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know if there's going to be any investment or are you actually going to sell TAP's planes to rent them next?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u133	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the negotiations of this government are in this register: if you sell everything that is public, then you do the negotiations of the private sector and whoever comes after you turn off the light. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Keep in mind, Prime Minister, that we don't want to turn off the light. We demand to live here, we demand to live here with dignity and that this country be respected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u136	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, in fact, should not be worth everything. I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that the government is always guided by the enforcement of the law. This may surprise the honourable Member, but the government is acting in accordance with the law. And since, legally, we can make a decision that we believe is justified — which is, in terms of national defence and national security, by direct adjustment, to contract for the construction of ocean patrol vessels — we will take it in terms of transparency and compliance with the law. This isn't negotiated. She then said that the Minister of National Defence had never had time to go to Viana do Castelo as she went to deal with the problem of the Estaleiros but now goes to Angola. Mrs Deputy, the Minister of National Defence was not only Angola before it was Viana do Castelo too. So, Mrs. Deputy is wrong. Someone gave him a wrong indication. But there is one thing I am not going to do, Mrs Deputy, that is to comment on what was mentioned by the former Chief of Military Staff Melo Gomes. Don't hurt, but I won't even comment on what was said by Admiral Melo Gomes. On the issue of TAP's debt, it is clear, Mrs. The TAP's debt is company and remains in the company, it is not transferred to the State. I hope this will answer your question. As regards the question of private urban transport, having spoken in more negotiations, Mrs Deputy is becoming very monothematic, but it is finally her option, I would say that in these four years we have sought to make an operational consolidation of public undertakings in the field of transport, where urban transport is of great importance, as is evident. We made the operational result of these companies from about 156 million euros negative in 2010 to 57 million euros positive in 2014. There was therefore an improvement in the operational outcome of these companies. The overall result is different because of financial responsibilities. In other words, the financial function hampered the performance of the company's overall result. But we already know how the financial result undermines the national function. We're solving every time a little of that problem. But there is no doubt that these public undertakings — they are public concessions — have improved their operational outcome. The government decided that it would make sub-concessions of these companies. And it has been decided for a long time, with all transparency. It is in our transport programme, in the Government Programme, taken over by a Council of Ministers for at least two years and has been prepared: the merger of the REFER and the Portuguese Roads, in terms of infrastructure, and then the Port Metro with the STCP and the Lisbon Metropolitan with the Carris. Sub-concession processes are proceeding normally, although there are many people who do not want to. For example, the subway workers are already on the seventh strike in Lisbon this year—in the seventh! And they invoke the interests of passengers—image, of passengers! — to strike. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] Everyone already realized that when the sub-concession is done, the strikes will end. These strikes will end and there will be strikes which are due, which are not of a political nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u137	Please finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u138	And that is why, Mrs. Member, the Portuguese don't subscribe to what you say, especially those who live in Lisbon, because these are full of political strikes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u139	Then, yes, there are negotiations!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u140	... which are made in the urban transport of Lisbon. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u141	Mrs Catarina Martins has asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u142	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u143	You have the floor solely for that, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u144	Mr President, the political difference between me and the Prime Minister is clear. I did not speak of a direct adjustment in the Shipyards of Viana do Castelo by personal opinion, that is, that is what is in the Diário da República. Therefore, I ask that the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 35 -A / 2015 be distributed on 8 June, with the direct adjustment to the private company that bought the Viana do Castelo Shipyards worth EUR 77 million. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u145	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u146	To put questions to Mr Prime Minister, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u147	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, after what I have heard in this debate, perhaps you should start by asking why it is that Mr Prime Minister is missing the truth of how he does in these 15-year debates. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard you say here, in an absolutely perennial way, that there has been no increase in VAT is a great defeat, is it not Mr Prime Minister? So there was no increase in VAT in electricity to the maximum rate, Prime Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u148	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u149	Was there no increase in the VAT rate for restoration? Don't you? Oh, my God! By the way, it may be advisable for the Prime Minister to say whether he will or will not end this increase in VAT, for example, for restoration and why he does not also say for electricity. There has been an increase, Prime Minister! Clearly, there has been! And I think that Mr. Prime Minister must resort to the truth and assume the consequences of his political decisions. But Mr. Prime Minister, to so many, realizing what he said, comes to say: "What happened was only at the beginning of the legislature! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Yes, Prime Minister, it's been four years to hit! See that does not remove any guilt from the government. Then, in another debate, Mr Prime Minister came here to say that the government had never invited young Portuguese people to emigration, when everyone remembers that the government had made this invitation! And it worked, Prime Minister! In fact, what INE came to say is that levels of emigration have increased substantially, as much as the Prime Minister wants to disappoint you. At a certain point in the debate, Mr Prime Minister also said that it is essential that all parliamentary groups underline here the important aspects of the reality of the country. And then I ask you: why didn't the Prime Minister talk about poverty levels and the increase in poverty levels in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u150	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u151	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I myself mentioned here - there is no need to accuse myself of missing the truth, because I myself said - here - that I did not increase VAT rates in this government, i.e. the reduced rate, the intermediate rate and the normal rate. I didn't increase. It is true that the former Government has increased VAT rates; we do not increase VAT rates. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] And I added: at the beginning of the Legislature, we did, according to what was foreseen in the Memorandum of Understanding, the recomposition of goods and services that are associated with the rates in force today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u152	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u153	And we did that, Mrs. Member, saying that we increased the electricity rate, because electricity went from the minimum, reduced rate to the normal rate. We did not increase the reduced rate, nor the normal rate. But electricity went from reduced rate to normal rate. [[PS and PCP protests.]] The same happened in the case of restoration, which shifted from the intermediate rate to the normal rate. This is known, Mrs Deputies, but this is not incompatible with what I said, i.e., that I did not increase VAT rates. [[PCP protests.]] So I keep what I said. I complied with what was on the side of the Memorandum of Understanding regarding the recomposition of the goods and services that are on the VAT list today, but I did not increase the rates. So, Mrs. Member, there is no need to accuse me of lying, because I said all that. Now you tell the honourable Member that I must be upset because I am sorry about the young people's invitation to emigration. No, Mrs. Member, I reaffirm what you said. Still no one presented a sentence of mine in which I had invited young people to emigrate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u154	He's been on TV! Everyone heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u155	There is no Member. There isn't! That's an extraordinary story. I invited, moreover, the gentlemen. Journalists find a statement of mine that I had invited young people to emigration and did not find it. [[PCP protests.]] Imagine the honourable Member that the best thing they could have been to find a sentence in which I was saying, about the teachers and the fact that there are not enough students to form more classes, who were able to convert here to other activities or, wanting to remain as teachers, to look at the universe of Portuguese-speaking countries, who need teachers. Then they said: « Here is the great appeal of mobilization which the Prime Minister has launched for everyone to emigrate, young people and everyone else». Madam Member, it takes a great deal of good will and imagination to agree, to see what I said an invitation to emigration. I've never made such an invitation, Your Honor! But I said, and they could have gone looking for my sentence, that we can't stigmatize those who are looking for work. We can't stigmatize them, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u156	It's true, we can't stigmatize them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u157	Do you agree with me? So thank you very much. If you agree, thank you very much. Regarding the question of poverty, I never said there had been no impoverishment in the country. on the contrary, we stayed with a gross domestic product smaller than the one we had and we had recessioned. So don't we all impoverish everyone, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! Of course! But there is one thing that we can measure by the Gini index: the way these inequalities affect the yield of the various classes. And actually, looking at this indicator that measures inequalities, we did not get any worse, despite the crisis. This was due again to say it, in the way policies were constructed, which was in order to preserve as much as possible those who had less incomes. That, today, is internationally recognised, because there were other countries that did not achieve the same result, Mrs Deputies. There were countries that during this period have worsened the gap in the distribution of income. It is clear that we have all become poorer, but it is also clear — I have said it repeatedly — that poverty and recession are not going down on everyone in the same way. That is why I say that if they are always the most vulnerable ones who are most beaten by crises, then that is why we should redouble our efforts, not repeat these crises and recover from them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u158	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u159	Mr President, Prime Minister, the conclusion I draw is that the government has increased VAT and invited young people from the country to emigrate. Mr. Prime Minister, as I know, responds throughout the government. Now, Mr Prime Minister has already said what his share was: he has invited teachers who had no employment in Portugal to emigrate and that the government was saying good-bye. But then he refers to other statements by then Minister Miguel Relvas and then Secretary of State for Sport and Youth, who said that young people should leave their comfort zone. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, if this has not been successive invitations to emigration, then you will tell me what it was. In order to say that, in fact, Mr Prime Minister has to start speaking with some realism and some truth and assume the practical consequences, which he now wants to distort in terms of results, of his policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u160	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u161	Indeed, the practical consequences of this government's policy have resulted in greater impoverishment. You extended the poverty stock exchange and then, in view of this event, restricted the beneficiaries of social support. Conclusion: you have created more conditions for greater difficulties than those who have impoverished, and Mr Prime Minister cannot deny it. This situation had, of course, reflections on access to health, and that is also precisely what the National Health Observatory tells us. Mr. Prime Minister, there is no doubt about one thing: in your country, there are people who, although what you referred to as the drugs are cheaper, have more difficulty in acquiring them today. What does that mean, Prime Minister? It means that their financial conditions have deteriorated in such a way that, even with cheaper drugs, they cannot get there. We have to draw some conclusion from here. Mr Prime Minister, now at the end of his term of office, should have come to Parliament today to present a true programme for combating poverty in Portugal and not to be permanently announcing measures to promote this poverty further, which is absolutely unacceptable. Mr Prime Minister, even to conclude, I would like to draw your attention to it. I believe that the Minister for the Environment is not truly aware of this matter. We have an agreement with Spain on safeguarding, if we can say so, our international rivers, which is the Albufeira Convention. The minimum flows are not being guaranteed by Spain or, if they are being guaranteed, the Albufeira Convention does not determine appropriate flows for Portugal. We are with great environmental problems in our ecosystems resulting from these streams not having enough water. The Portuguese Government has to do something and has to become aware of it in Spain. More: you have to guarantee something to ensure that the water flows to Portugal and that the safeguard of our ecosystems can exist. I would like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, to raise this deep awareness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u162	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u163	Mr President, Prime Minister, given that this is the last half-year debate in this Parliament, I was interested in going to remind you of the first debate because it gives us a good dimension of the course then taken. at the time, Mr. Prime Minister, the words that went through this 2011 debate were the uncertainty of Portugal to achieve or fail to fulfil, the anxiety of having the ability to pay, the impossibility of negotiating, even more with international creditors, a Memorandum signed and negotiated by the former Government of the Socialist Party and the external imposition of creditors. It has been a long time since the first debate of this Parliament. at the time, Mr. Prime Minister, from the points of view as now, the majority were aware of the difficulties and challenges he faced, but placed hope in the possibility of Portugal and the Portuguese to be able to return to this difficult period in the history of the country. The speech of the opposition, revisiting this first debate, was exactly the same as it is today. They said that Portugal would not be able, that it would not succeed, that we needed more time and more money, that the second rescue would be inevitable and that it would be a matter of days, weeks and months. Mr Prime Minister, four years later, many debates later, it is necessary to say clearly to the opposition that Portugal and the Portuguese, for their great sadness, were able. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u164	They were able to comply with the Memorandum with a single rescue, a single loan, a single deadline and leave without any cautious programme, fulfilling the deficit target below 3% with which they committed themselves and still repaying creditors with more favourable interest vis-à-vis those which the previous Socialist Government could achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u165	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u166	More: we started to grow and create jobs solidly and sustainably and, of course, we lowered the unemployment rate. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister, since the first debate, which was in 2011, until today's last, almost everything seems to have changed, except the opposition, which still does not trust the capacity of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u167	Portugal, only in the first quarter of 2015, created more jobs, as I said, that the European Union average and much more than the euro area average ; exported more and more sites than last year, which has already been the best year ever; it produced more than one year, with numbers very identical to 2000 ; it recorded a higher confidence rate compared to the previous decade ; the search for Community funds resulting from this trust is three times greater than the offer, and there is a bid of EUR 1000 million and there are EUR 3000 million of proposals ; and investment, with this growth and with this trust, is the best of 17 years ago to this party, i.e. since 1998. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, it is good to remember that it is obvious that there are still difficulties and it is clear that, from 2011 to 2015, much has changed, but it is necessary to continue this path, not to waste everything, because I am sure that no one will want to return to the deficit, debt and bankruptcy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr Prime Minister, the truth seems to be this: if there is still a lot to do, there is, above all, much that we can lose if we do not have the responsibility to stop doing what has to be done for the sake of national interest. All this was possible — the merit of Portugal and the Portuguese — without a single contribution from the opposition. from the first to the last minute, the opposition always seemed to wish that Portugal and the Portuguese were not capable. And there are two examples that demonstrate this: health and TAP. As far as health is concerned, Mr. Members of the opposition, who are very fond of reports, highlighted a report from the last days of a national institution. I am not going to question anyone who presides or the way in which he presides, but it is extraordinary that there is not a single word in relation to an OECD report which has also been published a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u168	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u169	When the OECD said it was concerned about Portugal, we often heard the opposition, particularly the Socialist Party, to speak of the OECD as the guarantor of truth. For today, as it does not — the OECD gives a positive note to the monitoring systems of the national health system and recognizes that Portugal has made sustained progress in improving the quality of health care, however, achieving the maintenance of expenditure, which is no longer of interest to anything, the OECD has become a sort of blocking force, and the Socialist Party does not know and even knows where it is. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] As for TAP, Prime Minister, the position of the Socialist Party is extraordinary. The PS has known since 1997 that the entry of private capital into the TAP is essential for the company to be viable. Even Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, who made a very harsh intervention against TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u170	Against TAP, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u171	You know, because you were Minister of Social Equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u172	In addition to having been ambassador to Portugal in the OECD!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u173	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues was Minister of Social Equipment and, by now, just not to get out of focus, the Minister of Justice at the time was Dr. António Costa. I quote what was planned in 2002 : « The privatisation process approved by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2000 covers the period from June 2000 to June 2002, and the revitalisation operations are planned for the year 2002, inter alia, of (... ) TAP, SA.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u174	It can't be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u175	It is extraordinary, Mr. Prime Minister, how the PS changes and how he has a position when he is in opposition and another position when he is in government, even if they are the same people. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, it was good that the Socialist Party, even because it seems to forget that it is always a party that has to show the alternatives to be an alternative, could tell the Portuguese: "We have changed our mind. After all, we want the State to intervene directly in the TAP". It was good for the Socialist Party to assume this, but, if it did, it should also assume what it would do if the European Union, as in other cases, did not authorize it or, if so, obliged to lay off, as has already happened. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, where are you going to get the more than EUR 1000 million of short-term debt to suppliers, not only TAP? Where are you going to get these EUR 1 billion? the taxpayer's purse? If that is the case, don't count on us. No, thank you! We want no more taxes, we want, yes, there is a tax system more suitable for Portuguese and businesses. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, four years back, we know that Portugal still lives with many difficulties and that there is much more to do, but as I have already said, there is even more to be lost if we are irresponsible, in a kind of promise contest, in particular of the greater party of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u176	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u177	We know that it has not been easy, it is not easy and it will not be easy, but we know what we have achieved and what we want. And the Portuguese also know more and more what they don't want, that is to return to the bankruptcy country, to return to the promises of those who, on the last day, promise everything to everyone at the same time and end up harming everything and everyone. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u178	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u179	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, in fact only now I realize that this will be the last fortnight debate we will have in this legislature and according to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, it is 56. the debate, i.e. we have already held 55 15-year debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u180	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u181	This means that, despite many times having transmitted a crispaction that would prefer it not to exist in the political debate in Portugal, a relevant function was fulfilled in a country that went through one of the most complex phases of its modern history, and we have always found in Parliament an important forum to be able to explain what the government had been doing and, in particular, before the majority and the opposition, to realize what possibilities and alternatives we could have. The fact that the Government is benefiting from an absolute majority in Parliament does not mean that it has not been subject to contradiction and that it has not discussed the alternatives that existed for the main decisions we have taken in these four years. Therefore, at the beginning of this debate, I have asked myself to say that the circumstance we are living today, with greater security and peace of mind, in the face of the surrounding uncertainty, has resulted from difficult choices that we have made. It is easy to point out not only the problems that exist, especially when they are too notorious, and it is easier to say that we must avoid the most difficult situations to deal with them. But, in fact, if we had carried out in an easy way, as many times, I would say invariably, in these debates, the opposition proposed, which was, by describing the crisis, returning to the same foundations that caused it, increasing public expenditure, not taking the reins of finance, not having rigour, today we were exactly like Greece, that is, on the edge of a third rescue, because it is unequivocal today that Greece, unfortunately, will not be able to continue its course without a third external aid programme - it will not be able to do so by its own means - and we obviously hope that it will be able, at least, to conclude the second so that we will not lose four more months to discuss the next. But today Portugal is not at this imminent moment, as is not Ireland and as it has not been in Spain throughout this period. Have any of these governments had any satisfaction in taking measures that had an unequivocally negative social impact? Oh, my God! Will there be any government in Portugal or any other democratic country to find reasons for satisfaction or pleasure in taking measures that reverse the course of events, at the cost, necessarily, of reducing public expenditure and indebtedness? Oh, my God! Anyway, I don't think so. in the same way that we do not deny the difficulties we have experienced, it is natural to say today, with some sense of consciousness of duty fulfilled, that if we are not, as we have been four years ago, in the imminentness of a contagion that brings us back to the hands of the negotiation of an external rescue, this is due to the fact that we have not followed the alternatives that were presented here, in each of these debates, by opposition. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, when Mr. Ferro Rodrigues comes to mention statements I made about the passive effect of taxes, the impoverishment of the country or the level of demand that we needed to have...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u182	And what did they say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u183	... because we are committed to fulfilling the Troika Programme that they negotiated does not cause me any embarrassment. And I don't understand why Mr. Ferro Rodrigues used so much time to quote me in things that I said well. I don't understand why! In fact, all of this has happened since the first minute I took possession as Prime Minister! Less than 15 days later, we were preparing the first evaluation of the troika! We had hardly made any decisions yet, and we had to show that we were going to comply with what the Socialist Party had negotiated in the government. But, as I said, we had more ambition than the troika in the structural dimension and, therefore, much of what has been put back in the programme, in the structural dimension, was our requirement, because we were not sufficiently satisfied with the structural dimension of the programme. Unfortunately, it was not possible to obtain any agreement from the Socialist Party for these revisions of the Memorandum that would give more impetus to the reforms that were initially planned, particularly in the field of State reform, which the Socialist Party never agreed to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u185	But, of course, the Socialist Party believes that fulfilling the objectives that were in that initial version of the Memorandum would have been better than revising it. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u186	But today, the Socialist Party is not uncomfortable when this inconsistency is attached to it. There's no doubt about that! The Socialist Party feels it bad that it has not always been asked, every year, more time to meet and considers that when we negotiated more flexible goals, because we met the previous ones, that was worse for the country. It's absurd! All this conclusion and rhetoric of the Socialist Party reveals only one thing, Mr Nuno Magalhães : the Socialist Party did not succeed in the strategy that had to follow from the beginning,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u187	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u188	...and this has nothing to do with your leadership, it has to do with the Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u189	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u190	It was not Antonio José Seguro or Antonio Costa who made the difference, they were in fact all Mr. Members and leaders of the Socialist Party, who have chosen a socialist strategy wrong from the beginning. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] They wagered that Portugal failed to fulfil its obligations to envision the possibility of returning to the government and now, seeing that there are no fairy tales told what they thought to be the most natural in the world, that it was a red pass to return to the government,... [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u191	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u192	... criticize the government for the good results that the country achieves,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ...because these good results do not suit their expectations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u193	Bad results!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u194	So, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I am sure that, until the end of this legislature, we will be able to see...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u195	Please finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u196	... more contradictions on the side of the opposition—we shall see them already in the ensuing debate—than government inconsistencies. We have remained steadfast these four years and, thanks to this and the Portuguese, we are today, as the leader of the Socialist Party said, incomparably better than in 2011. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u197	To put your questions, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u198	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the first question I would like to address in this debate concerns the situation in Greece, although I have noted in particular Mr Ferro Rodrigues, that we will have an opportunity to discuss this in the next debate. In fact, I will refer precisely to the Socialist Party's predisposition for this debate. But, first of all, Mr. Prime Minister, I want to emphasize the word of security and tranquillity that he once again expressed here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u200	... in Parliament, to the Portuguese, as regards the development of the Greek situation, which we are concerned about, that we naturally follow with interest, because it is a country of the European Union and, more than that, it is a country of the euro area, and for which we still hope that it will have an exit as soon as possible. But it is true, Mr. Prime Minister, that, as a result of the way we have been going in recent years, we are now prepared to be able to face a possible situation of instability, with the tranquillity and security that Mr. Prime Minister once again expressed here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u201	But, as Mr Ferro Rodrigues said, we will have the opportunity to discuss this in the next debate, and it is also normal that the Socialist Party, when we ask questions in this debate, complains that we no longer have time to answer the questions that we are asking, today has this faculty, because it will have time, will speak now. And Mr. Prime Minister will excuse me, but I have to ask a direct question not to Mr. Prime Minister, but to the Socialist Party, about the situation in Greece and the evolution of the situation in Greece. This is no longer the question I asked in the last debate, in order to know what the Socialist Party's position on Greece's political perspective is whether it stems from the enthusiasm and hope of January 25, or whether it is the result of the most recent statements, of the silly Syriza of May 2015, both of the Secretary-General António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u202	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u203	I could also use it to answer that, but the question is no longer that, the question is even about a possible exit from Greece from the euro area. We know that, in the macroeconomic scenario of the Socialist Party, more specifically on pages 25 and 26 of the document One Decade for Portugal, if you expect an absolute situation of contamination to Portugal from a scenario of these in Greece, and that the Socialist Party, by the way, assumes that it will be inevitable that, if this happens to Greece, it will also happen to Portugal. Moreover, the Socialist Party says that this would have many consequences: economic growth could not have an average of 2, 6 % which is estimated to be 0, 5 %; there would be an increase in unemployment; there would be an increase in deficit and debt; there would even be a failure of the Socialist Party, if it were government, to fulfill that promise of restoring the salary level of the Public Administration and eliminating the overtax within the prescribed time limit. I therefore ask the Socialist Party directly whether it wants to continue in contradiction with the history of recent years, the history which, given the prudence and responsible way in which the Government has implemented its policies, gives security to a possible context of instability, or whether the Socialist Party is even convinced that even with the Government, this will have this consequence. It is important for the Portuguese to know, because this is also the way in which we can distinguish a prudent, secure course of greater facilitation and adventurerism. [[PS Ferro Rodrigues' laughs.]] That is what is at stake, and that is the answer we are waiting for in the next debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The second question, Prime Minister, very quickly affects TAP. In fact, the Socialist Party, on this issue, gave a total, total reel! The fathers of the privatization of TAP, the socialists, the governments of the Socialist Party today disagree with the privatisation operation, but, worse than that, Mr. Prime Minister, they deal with this matter—I have already had occasion to say yesterday—with much lightness, as if it were a coffee conversation. They arrive at the summit of coming to Parliament, and of being assisted by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, saying that the value involved in this operation is the equivalent of the value of a sport transfer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u204	Two!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u205	... in the case of a football coach, meaning that the value of this operation is EUR 10 million, ignoring that, within the financial value of this operation, between EUR 350 million and EUR 400 million of investment in the TAP that enables the operation of the TAP,... [[PS protests.]] ... ignoring that the more than EUR 1000 million of TAP debt is, as has already been said today, the responsibility of TAP shareholders. That's what's in the order book, and that's how it's gonna be, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] They then insinuate that the process was made with secrecy and ignore that the competent body to monitor, in detail, this operation, the Court of Auditors, has already made clear: not only did its President say that everything has been done with transparency, as the Government has provided all the information that has been requested, and you ignore a solemn statement by the competent body to monitor this operation. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I have already mentioned, in these debates, the irresponsibility which stems from the Socialist Party's claim to want to blackmail these operators, saying that if they are government, if they eventually win the next elections... [[Let's see!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u206	... which we always said was unexpected, we always believed that the Portuguese said the same thing, and, more and more we realize that this is exactly what the Portuguese understand. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Ferro Rodrigues' laughs.]] The Socialist Party says that, in this hypothetical scenario — which is increasingly unrealistic — it would reverse this operation, not guaranteeing the credibility and reliability of the word of the State and of decisions taken by the competent sovereignty bodies in our constitutional system. Mr. Prime Minister, in fact, this is a position which does not believe the Socialist Party as an alternative of government and which therefore further undermines the political affirmation of an alternative of the Socialist Party, as we see from the Portuguese reaction. The same is said about the position that the Socialist Party here highlighted, as well as the other opposition parties, on the theme of health. It is good to remember that, as Mr Nuno Magalhães has already said, the OECD recognized that our National Health Service, our health system was being able to do more with less resources. And, Prime Minister, it is good to bring here today the one that was health policy in Portugal, from the moment on the circumstance of we assumed, and pay, more than EUR 3000 million of debts that the governments of the Socialist Party left in the health sector... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u207	...and that they question the sustainability of the National Health Service. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is not too much to remember that today there are six million Portuguese who have access to the National Health Service, without paying moderate fees, free of moderate fees! [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] It is not too much to remember, as it has already been remembered today, that the price of medicines has decreased! Not too much to remember that the generic market has increased! It is not too much to remember that, for example, treatment for hepatitis C is on the ground today, which reaches around 4500 patients today, which ensures that all those who are at the most difficult stage of the disease have assistance, corresponding to an investment that will only be around 40 million euros in 2015! It should not be ignored that, for example, from the next day 1 July, the pneumococcal vaccine will be on the ground and will reach about 80 000 children in Portugal each year! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ignoring these results and measures of health policy is, in fact, acting politically against reality. This does not give credit to the Socialist Party's proposal and, unfortunately, you still do not understand it. Mr President, Prime Minister, it has also been a remarkable fact of this debate that the question of employment has not developed, it has not been pointed out that in the first quarter of 2015 we had an increase in employment of 0, 7% in jail and 1, 4 % in terms of counterparts, and that this corresponds to the country's economic activity. There has also been no mention here that in the first quarter of 2015 we had a 1, 5 % growth and in jail 0, 4 %, nor that exports rose in the first quarter 8, 2 %, and in April 9, 7 %, all testifying, Prime Minister, that in addition to social policies, in addition to the financial policy framework, the economy is responding and creating employment opportunities. One last word, Mr President, if you will allow me, just to say the following: as mentioned here, this is 56. the fifteen-year debate of this legislation and it is also the last of this legislation. I would therefore like to congratulate all the Members who have spoken in these 15-year debates. I therefore spoke in everyone, with democratic respect, to greet all those who spoke and participated in these debates, but in a very particular way, I wanted to greet Mr Prime Minister. It is that you may like the answers you give more or less, you may agree with the political opinions you issue, but there is one thing that is indisputable: these debates, in fact, were enlightening.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u209	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u210	The questions that have been raised have obtained the clarifications and answers by Mr Prime Minister. It ended with a previous technique, in which these debates were very political folklore, it was a lot of propaganda, and there was indeed a democratic debate and the Assembly of the Republic began to fulfil its role of scrutiny to the activity of the Government. [[PS Ferro Rodrigues' laughs.]] And I welcome Mr. Prime Minister for bringing this way of dealing with the Assembly of the Republic! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u211	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your words. I'm returning to all of you. Members of the same House, saying that, as Parliament is home to democracy, it is essential that we should be able to tackle more or less heat the debates that are indispensable for the Portuguese to know where the alternatives are and what is behind our choices. in the case of health, honourable Member, our choices today are well-founded. We were able to significantly reduce, as I said, the debt of the health sector. In fact, this debt was now reduced to EUR 2300 million, and this was achieved through the direct payment of liabilities that were constituted and was also made through recapitalisation processes or, better, capitalisation of hospital units. And so we were able to interrupt a cycle in which important suppliers threatened — some have come to do so — to suspend supplies to the National Health Service because of the State not paying them what they should. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u213	And today, fortunately, this situation does not happen. We therefore have a health sector that is financially sound and we are still struggling to be able to comply with it — we have not yet achieved it — an average period of payments to suppliers that are in accordance with Community requirements and that are also requirements of Portuguese law itself. But we're trying to do that! In passing, it is said that the fact that we have, on the side of all public services, created legal conditions to observe rules that were not previously observed helps to this discipline and to that rigour. Today, we know that it is not possible in the State that, with no funds available within three months, there can be commitments made in terms of public expenditure. Some will say: "But this is very bad, because the needs are many, the state should not have these restrictions, should always provide all the goods and services that were necessary. After all, the state is the state! The state always has to pay everything, even if it doesn't have money; then, soon if you have to see where the money is going to be. And if there isn't here, ask yourself outside. Do not keep on seeking. ” We went through all of this and we know that it didn't give anyone access to health services, nor to Portuguese, they did what they did in life! A country where the rule is to spend and then see if it is possible to pay is a country that is doomed not to fulfil its obligations either internally or externally. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u214	For this reason, the Law of Commitments was indispensable so that we could have standardised rigor and discipline within the State. And we are also in the area of health, to see if we can see that there is, therefore, an increase in late payments. And they've been reduced and contained. We know that there is still a way to go, but the path we have made so far has not prevented us from finding savings in medicine policy, although we have therefore given more shared medicines than in the past; it has not prevented us from transferring more money to hospitals. We had — I noticed in this fact that the Minister of Health here in Parliament this week — during the period from 2011 to 2014, compared to the period 2008 to 2010, more than 900 million per year that were transferred to EPE hospitals, which means that we had more resources within the system, and with them we were able to provide more and better health care. [[Protests from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] So, Mr. Luís Montenegro, we do not hide that the crisis has affected everyone in the country. Better off there was a solution to having the crises without having to bother with their effects! This should be a very special crisis: a crisis in which we all get better, where the country gets richer. I'd love to have these crises! [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] The Portuguese would love to know where this miracle is, that it is that we have inherited a financial ruin situation and we will all get richer, to live better, with more employment, with more access to everything, to all the goods! That's an extraordinary thing! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But while a part of the opposition is delighted to describe the problems of the crisis, because it must certainly find it useless to do the exercise to think how things should be done if they were in the government, because they have no such perspective, and therefore prefer to describe the crisis to take their time to think how it could be overcome, because they do not have the expectation of being able to contribute to it, the main party of the opposition does not, because it has, as it is natural that it has, the expectation that one day will be able to return to the government, and knows that it is evaluated for this. And, in particular, when a party that has been in government today has the generality of its leaders, responsible for the previous governments, candidates for a new government, it is natural that this requirement should be repeated. Will they do the same again? Have you learned from the mistakes of the past? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u215	After the crisis, which at least helped to create, were they able to contribute, by helping the government, to overcome the crisis? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u216	So far the answer is negative. What we have observed so far is that the Socialist Party, which is very responsible for the policies that have led us to the crisis because we have gone through, prescribes to the country exactly the same policies that have led us to this crisis. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And he is upset, upset, by the government not adopting them. Now, in fact, we have refused to adopt them and we will continue to refuse to adopt them. Not because we didn't like to walk faster, not because we didn't want the economy to grow any more, not because we didn't want any more jobs. We want all that! I think there will be no politician who does not want that for your country. But it's going to be a big difference between wanting that and achieving that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u218	We are in a process of credibility, because people see that we are getting closer to achieving what we want. And the recipe they see on the other side is the same adventure of the past, even when every occasion is taken to, without recognizing the mistakes of the past, give the idea that they will not repeat again. But it is only a vague idea, because all the measures that are presented have the same purpose: putting money in the pocket to everyone as quickly as possible and, if this has a high cost in the future, it has no problem because until then we will be rich. Of course, there will be people who will still believe in this fallacy. But after all that we've been through, it's less and less people who believe in that kind of miracle. That's because the Portuguese know what had to happen to see this light at the bottom of the tunnel. That is why we are very much preserving these results today, which are not evidenced by us as propaganda. We do not need to advertise, which we do is to draw attention to the sacrifices we have made and to the results that they have allowed us to achieve. It was because it cost us a lot to get here that we preserve the path we have made and we think that prudence was only a good companion. As far as the future is concerned, I agree. We will need to do our debates again in the hope that we will be able to be assessed permanently by the opposition, by the parties of the majority and by the Portuguese. But here we will be for this assessment, because today the country is more free than it was in the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u219	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. We will move on to the second point, which consists of the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union, also with the presence of the Prime Minister. For an intervention, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Members know that the European Council has on its agenda two more general issues, which are related to security issues, in particular security issues in the vicinity of the European Union, and of an economic nature, because this is the Council which closes the European Semester. It is also known that in the context of this agenda the Heads of State and Government should discuss with a little more detail the deepening of economic and monetary union. In this sense, it is expected that a report on the deepening of economic and monetary union by the four Presidents — or four more — will be submitted in the light of the assumption that the President of the European Parliament has also expressed the intention of joining this new report — in particular the Presidents of the European Commission, the Eurogroup, the European Central Bank and the European Council. We should also see some conclusions adopted on the digital market and on security and defence issues. But there is no doubt that there are, above all, three more relevant issues — immigration policies aside, too, a relevant issue: the use of the specific recommendations for each country that have been produced by the European Commission and that the Council should make; the discussion of this report on the deepening of economic and monetary union and also the whole issue which, at this time, involves the instability and uncertainty that is living around Greece and, therefore, the impact that this could have on the euro area. I do not think it is possible to escape this debate. It is known, however, that a Eurozone summit has already been convened for Monday night to discuss only the question of Greece, so that we can reach the European Council with this clarified issue so that the Council can devote itself to the aspects that were initially at the heart of its agenda. In any case, I would like to say, on the issue of economic and monetary union, that I believe that the level of uncertainty in Europe because of Greece recommends an even more thorough discussion on the issue of economic and monetary union. We know, and I also contribute, as Prime Minister of Portugal, to this debate through the presentation of a document which is known to the honourable Members. Members, that these last five years of European life force us to take lessons that are useful for strengthening economic and monetary union. from the point of view of the Portuguese Government and of what I have contributed to this discussion, we believe that this is a very important time for us to renew our political commitment to the euro and, at the same time, we must point to the creation of instruments that promote greater convergence between the economies of the euro area. In a way, the political project of the euro aims to bring the economies closer to and converge. In fact, the last few years have been years of divergence and this is the result of the fact that imbalances which have been accumulated within a single currency have had no instruments other than internal depreciation to respond to economic adjustments. That is why we have said that it would be useful if we, while not underlining the importance of the principle of national responsibility, could strengthen European responsibility in the way we fight crises, manage instability and also respond to the asymmetrical shocks that happen, either in an endogenous way or exogenously. Our idea is that it is possible to create a European monetary fund—as I have already said—that it is at the disposal of a permanent Presidency of the Eurogroup, that it can live with a Council of Public Finance at the same time in order to create an institutional framework for crisis management that puts the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund in its natural role. And, after what we have learned in these years, the natural role of the International Monetary Fund is not to help the countries of Europe and the natural role of the European Central Bank is to lead monetary policy and not to define national adjustment programmes. What is more, today an open letter has been issued to the four Presidents, subscribed by a number of moderate right-wing and left-wing personalities throughout Europe who, in a way, also defend this point of view. This means that this European monetary fund can have responsibilities and instruments to have a budgetary capacity, based on its own resources, which can promote or help promote economic convergence and make us individually and globally more resistant to asymmetrical shocks. But we also need to complete banking union and produce a genuine financial union. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, know these positions of the Portuguese Government and I will therefore not extend these explanations at the moment. I just want to say that it seems to me that, in view of the situation in which we are living, it is essential to look for a more robust and institutionally more resilient exit to the euro area. If we are not as we were at the beginning of this crisis at the end of 2009, the principles of 2010, in which we did not simply have tools to deal with problems like those we had, in fact, we can be much better in the coming years if we move faster in the completeness of this institutional framework that strengthens confidence in our institutions. I also want to say, with regard to the migration challenges, that Portugal will have a position of openness with regard to the Commission proposal. If we cannot accept the values and quotas presented there for Portugal, which would put us almost at the Netherlands level in the capacity to receive or relocate exiles or migrants, we actually need to do more than we have done in these years and today we have conditions for that. But we must share this with our growth capacity, with the level of unemployment we still have and with what we have the means to support the most deprived in Portugal. We therefore want to find a more reasonable balance here in the proposal put forward by the Commission. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that essentially the expectation that we would all like to have was that we could reach this Council without having any breakdown of negotiations between the Eurogroup and Greece. I do not know, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, to answer your question about the detail of the negotiations that are under way, because they are being conducted, as you know, by the Presidents of the institutions, supported by the technical teams of the institutions, and the Eurogroup only discusses — and discusses with the natural reserve that these matters deserve, as they have deserved to Portugal at the right time and deserve to be reserved today — the final outcome of the negotiations that have been taking place. There is no doubt, however, and it is clear that, over the course of these months, we have not come close to a solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u221	Please finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u222	I conclude, Mr. President. I welcome the statements made by the President of the Eurogroup himself and which coincide with the information given to me by the Minister of State and Finance: we are not now closer to a solution. I would very much like Europe not to go through an accident with Greece, but, as I have said, we need to find solutions within the institutional frameworks and European rules, and it is not possible to close a political agreement, neither between finance ministers, nor between Heads of State or Government, if this set of rules is not observed. And, to that extent, I believe that it is, above all, in the hands of the Greek Government to conclude these negotiations in a positive way for all. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u223	Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u224	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : I am disappointed with your statement on Greece. I mean, the PSD affords itself to demand that the Socialist Party take a position on all the aspects involved in Greece, but the Prime Minister says that what is discussed in the Eurogroup is there in the Eurogroup, it is not known. at this time, there are four versions in the international press: two versions on what the Greek Government wants and two versions on what the troika wants. This is not possible in terms of democracy in Europe! Mr Prime Minister has an obligation to be informed and to tell us in particular what separates the Greek Government from the troika on the primary balance, on requirements for pension reform in Greece on VAT reform on defence expenditure. Even today, an article says that what separates them is 0, 5 % of Greek GDP. If this is it, it's completely ridiculous. And the PSD gentlemen, as they speak about Greece, show that they put it as an instrumental question to serve the internal political debate rather than as a serious issue and as a European concern, for Greece and for Portugal. This is an absolutely regrettable situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It even gives the feeling that you want things to go wrong with Greece. It gives this feeling for the tone of the interventions that were made here. On the contrary, we want them to run well. With regard to the issues raised in the previous debate, let me say that, in the same way that Mr Prime Minister would like to be very much to define the PS line — it has already happened in the time of Antonio José Seguro and now happens with Antonio Costa — it is also not my dear friend Montenegro who defines the intervention of the PS and what the PS does to use its time, who defines it is the PS. Luckily, that's the way it is. As far as the European Council is concerned, it clearly has an intensive and politically relevant agenda, with migration and problems in the Mediterranean, security and defence, growth and employment, the European Semester, economic governance of the euro area, with the report of the four Presidents, in addition to Greece that we have already spoken about and that we are very concerned about. With regard to the issue of security and defence, what the draft Conclusions indicates is that they will continue the work and therefore there is nothing particularly important for visas. On the subject of migration, the focus is on various aspects: prevention of loss of human life, cooperation with the country of origin and readmission and resettlement policies. The state of things is serious. We have seen this weekend in France the closed borders, which is a symptom of a serious European disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u225	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u226	This is a problem that has to be attacked. The European project requires solidarity and we cannot stand by to see people die at our doors every day. This is the PS opinion. In addition, this is a problem that affects more States than others and it is imperative that rapid solidarity mechanisms be adopted at European level. And the protection of fundamental rights and solidarity must be at the heart of European policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u227	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u228	With regard to the following points, the PS advocates a new impetus for convergence in the European Union, which promotes a path of integration and strengthening European policy instruments. It is necessary to find a new balance. Europe is the privileged space of peace, prosperity and economic and social progress, where we want to continue to be and to which we intend to contribute actively. Portugal must defend the deepening of European integration, but maintain the defence of the Community method of decision, which places the European Commission at the centre of executive action, with enhanced democratic legitimacy and the Member States in equal circumstances, without first-line labels and rear-end labels, because that is the best way to defend national and European interests. We believe in a Europe where the principle of equality between States is respected. It was not the rigidity of labour markets or products and services that caused the brutal increase in unemployment and divergences in the euro area. It was a global financial crisis and subsequent economic policy errors, particularly the option for austerity policies throughout Europe, which caused a significant fall in investment and, more generally, in demand. We therefore advocate an intelligent reading of budgetary discipline and the common economic governance must be given priority to reducing economic and social imbalances. Economic governance instruments such as the European Semester should be deepened and rebalanced towards socio-economic governance. Having said that, with an adaptation of the reforms to the concrete reality of each country, the PS advocates a more in-depth European Semester in which the recommendations to the reality of each Member State are closer to each Member State; the banking union must be complemented by the establishment of the European Deposit Guarantee Mechanism; budgetary capacity with own resources to deal with existing asymmetric shocks and which may arise in the future, also supporting Member States in their convergence efforts, through reforms to be initiated; the creation of a social Eurogroup; the relaunching of the single capital market; and the strengthening of the European Fund for Strategic Investments. It is a reality that Portugal, in recent decades, has made an investment effort in modernising its economy, unfortunately interrupted, and here we list areas that we consider critical: the correction of the historical deficit of qualifications; the modernization of the state; smart urban renewal and energy efficiency; business innovation; the recapitalization of businesses and the economic fabric. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the agreement at the highest level between the PS and the PSOE, which was approved by the European Socialist Party. In fact, the President of the PSOE, Pedro Sánchez, and the Secretary-General of the PS, António Costa, are currently in the Long Mouse signing this agreement. The presidency itself of the European Socialist Party welcomed the determination of the parties, Portuguese and Spanish, to engage in this path of progressive and fair reforms, with the said document entitled A new impetus for convergence between Spain and Portugal, concerning the 30 years of accession of Portugal and Spain to the European Union. These priorities take into account their national context in order to resolve their specific questions with responses oriented to Portugal and Spain. These specific programmes should be complemented by necessary progressive reforms in the governance of the euro area and the European Strategic Investment Fund. In each specific programme, Spain and Portugal identify the objectives to be achieved and the obstacles to be eliminated. These reform programmes, which are voluntary and tailor-made, are subject to an understanding with the European institutions, with clear qualitative and quantitative objectives, with a three- to five-year horizon, with continuous monitoring, i.e. by step, of all the European financial means available. These financial resources include instruments such as structural funds, cohesion funds and other resources from the European Union budget 2014 / 2020, the European Fund, available financing mechanisms offered in a remarkable way by the European Investment Bank and also the liquidity created by the strategy of the European Central Bank and the European Stability Mechanism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u229	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u230	I'm done. We want a Europe that moves away from the idea that austerity is the only way. We want to work for a better future than to invest in people, through the modernization of the state, through the promotion of a greener future, which supports innovation, which improves infrastructure, which supports small and medium-sized enterprises and the real economy. We want to work together in our common commitments, in full respect for national specificities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u231	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u232	Mr President, Prime Minister : It is inevitable to start by talking about what happened yesterday in the Eurogroup. The blackmail, pressure and arrogance have surpassed all limits and you and your government, unfortunately, to make a record of those who have nothing to say to the Greek people that they do not "obey, abdicate sovereignty, democracy". You know, but it is important that the Portuguese also know what is at stake. They are no difference in vision to solve an economic problem, not the EUR 2000 million that divides you from the Greek proposal. They are political and ideological impositions and your determination to kneel and humiliate a people. What is at issue in the Greek case is the so-called ‘Greek vaccine’. Give where they are stubborn to demonstrate by force that there are no other ways of cutting wages and pensions, that of rising taxes at work and in the goods of first need, that of privatization of social security, that of the bill of national wealth of a country, by means of debt instruments and privatization. What is at stake, and it is important for the Portuguese to know, is that you do not agree to cut military spending to ensure broad-layer social support for the impoverished population; they do not agree with the extraordinary contribution of 12 % to profits companies over EUR 1 million to maintain the purchasing power of wages and pensions; they do not agree with the increase in corporate profits rates from 26 % to 29 % to share medicines, among other measures which the Greek Government has submitted, after numerous concessions. It is only natural that those who fly in Europe's owners do not agree with other ways. The way they want to impose on Greece is the same as the way they have imposed and they want to continue to impose on the Portuguese people. Mr. João Oliveira (PCP): - - Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u233	It is the path that we have of the so-called "aggression pact" against the workers and the people, whom you embraced four years ago and want to continue to embrace. They want to continue the path that has already shown — and I quote an official study on Greek debt — that «the first loan agreement in 2010 aimed to save the Greek and European private banks, that most of the funds borrowed were transferred directly to the financial institutions and that drastic adjustments imposed on the Greek economy and society as a whole led to a rapid deterioration of living conditions and remain incompatible with social justice, social cohesion, democracy and human rights». on Monday, Mr Prime Minister will go to Brussels. Tell us: will you continue your theory of fear and disaster to continue to defend interests that are also those of the Portuguese? Will you recognize that the Greek people have the right to live with the same dignity or, on the contrary, will you continue to give reason to those who claim, well, that Europe, fraternal and solidarity, does not exist or never exist? As for the Council conclusions for next week, the European Union is completely transformed into a sea of contradictions. In the face of the tragic consequences of a selective and repressive migration policy that criminalizes emigration and migrants, the European Union's choice is to raise the walls of Europe-fortress. The European Union decides to take the inhumane character of its policies further. This is what these conclusions mean, with the full application of the Return Directive and the strengthening of readmission mechanisms. Conclusions which, of course, completely ignore the real causes of emigration, the flow of refugees. Why? Because these causes reside in the policies of the European Union itself, policies, in fact, which are clearly evident in the draft Council Conclusions. There is once again the European Semester. The cycle of this process is closed and supported nationally by the PS, the PSD and the CDS, with the repetition of the language of the so-called « reforms », whose results are seen in the millions of poor people in Portugal and in the hundreds of thousands of unemployed. In fact, there is a question on this subject. Portugal has been integrated into the category of countries with, and I quote, "excessive imbalances requiring the adoption of decisive strategic measures and specific follow-up". I ask you: what strategic measures are these, after all? Finally, I ask the Government to agree with the draft Conclusions, which envisages even greater steps in the militarisation of the European Union and military expenditure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u234	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u235	Mr President, Prime Minister : What has happened in the negotiations with Greece at European level is shameful. A political discourse that has been based on Greek myths. Myths about Greece that are not true. Let's start with the Greek myths.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u236	It says well, 'Greek myths'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u237	The first myth is that there was an injection of European money to save Greece and the Greeks. And the Financial Times, which, as you know, is everything but a left-wing newspaper, posted a news yesterday asking where was the money of those billions that was supposed to have saved the Greeks. And of the 254 billion euros were for the Greek State 27 billion. Forty-five were lost, wasted by the deficit reduction measures designed by the troika who failed, who failed, who only served to sink the country. And more than 180, nearly 190 billion euros were entirely for the financial system. That is, in every 10 € that were placed in Greece, 1 € served for the Greek people and the other 9 served to save the financial system, mainly the French bank and the German bank. And now they tell the Greeks that they have to pay those 10 whole €, that they didn't go to them, that they went to the French and German financial system. This is a robbery and it is a large-scale assault to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u239	The second myth in this debate is that Syriza is to blame. Before Syriza, before the left, everything was fine in Greece! They seem to forget that they were the friends of the Socialist Party, the Democratic Social Party and the Greek CDS who created a system in which the shipowners of the largest companies—see there—not even paying taxes. It's in the Constitution. I well know that Pedro Passos Coelho, the Portuguese Prime Minister, might like to have a constitution like this, in which shipowners do not pay taxes, but, see, this was not created on the left, it was by your friends and you were quiet while Europe was being robbed this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u240	Demagogy is also a Greek word!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u241	As they were quiet when three million people lost access to health protection, or people were left without light, or water, or youth unemployment rose to 60 %. Shut up, always! And now they say it's Syriza's fault,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u242	Poor Syrisa!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u243	...who arrived in the government a few months ago and is trying to do what? Informing tax and social security systems so that there is no escape, so that anyone who must pay taxes will pay taxes. And, of course, respond to the humanitarian crisis and human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u244	They have better conditions than us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u245	The third myth is that Greeks want an exception and there can be no exceptions for Greece. Let's see this: there's nothing else but exceptions to Greece. Because Greece cannot be on the market because it does not have access to the quantitative ease, i.e. to the liquidity of the ECB to which all other countries have access and Greece does not have access. Since Greece does not have secured debt on the secondary market either, as all other countries have, and the ECB denies Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u246	And why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u247	More: the ECB has 1,900 million Greek euro held illegally. Exceptions for Greece all, to sink it. And that's shameful. The fourth myth is that there is an intransigence of Syrisa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u248	The fourth myth is the Left Block! That's a myth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u249	And let's go to that myth, because it's not true either. Negotiations have been made, and on the other hand, there is intransigence. It is in such a way that at present Greece is divided by 0,5 % of the Greek GDP, which corresponds to — see if you can see the number, so small that it is! — 0, 01 % of European GDP. And yet you don't give in. And you know why they don't give in? Because the Greeks do not want to cut more pensions that have already been cut by 60 %. Look, how crazy, how irresponsible! A government that has already seen pensions cut by 60 % wants to protect pensioners and, instead of cutting more pensioners, wants to cut in military contracts! And you won't leave. You know why? Because they are protecting the big German companies who want to continue to bleed Greece and impose military contracts that are scandalous, and that's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u250	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u251	Then there is another myth — and I will finish, Mr President — which is very dangerous and has nothing to do with Greece, but with Europe as a whole. They tell us that whatever happens, we'll be fine. That's not true. We remember when we were told that the financial crisis was only in the United States. Only then has it reached Europe and EUR 4 billion went to the financial system, and we are in the crisis in which we are. We remember when we were told that Portugal was not Greece and, a year later, Portugal had the troika, as Greece had. We also remember having heard Cavaco Silva say now that Portugal is solid, with the same conviction that BES was solid.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u252	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u253	You are irresponsible. They are firing fire on Europe. And right now, what is needed is the wisdom of defending people from a financial system that sinks Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u254	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u255	I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: it is also necessary to say that when people die in the Mediterranean, they do not arrive at « crocodile tears», it is even necessary to look at the problems of refugees, open the door and have a policy, that is, decent and human rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u256	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u257	Mr President, Prime Minister : On the debate we are now promoting, I would also like to say that it is very sad to see the European Union opposing the Greek Government. It is very sad that the European Union and, fundamentally, the Eurogroup assume this role. But I would also like to say that the blackmail that is clearly and clearly being done with regard to Greece is not the Greek Government but, yes, the Greek people. And I would like to say that the European Union cannot therefore be a kind of VAT, a blind thing that does not look at the consequences or where it falls. The question is that rules are established, but the rules must be flexible to the point of being able to fit into the specific realities of each economy and country, because otherwise the rules are not valid and fail, Prime Minister, they cannot achieve success objectives. Now, what we have really been watching over these years is a Greek people who have been completely massacred by absolute austerity. And the revenue that the European Union wants to continue to impose on it is precisely that austerity. But the Greek people said no, that they can't take it anymore. And the European Union continues to impose and insist. Mr. Prime Minister, this is absolutely unbelievable. in reality, we are facing a truly political issue. It is that the European Union needs to self-prove the peoples of the European Union, saying: "No, no, this is how we want, with this neoliberalism that we want and any alternative that people send here we will not accept! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So this is all subverted. Solidarity? What solidarity! There is no solidarity here at all. This is all subverted and it is the people who lose with it. This was essentially what the European Union needed to understand. And, speaking of lack of solidarity, then, of course, we must also reach migration policies. It is that, when we see the European Union, in the face of the drama we have witnessed, that everyone has been watching, closing doors, imposing restrictions on the entry of migrants and refugees, there is something that is not right here. This European Union does not think and does not act for people; it primarily acts for an ideological component that does not feed human beings, Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u258	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u259	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate and in this matter, Mr Prime Minister, perhaps I would focus on three fundamental issues, giving more attention to the third, which has been the dominant issue this morning, namely the question of Greece. But before that, I would like to make a reference to the issue of immigration. First of all, Mr Prime Minister, it seems undisputed to us that Europe, in this matter, faces not only a serious problem as an unprecedented tragedy, i.e., in a remarkable phrase, Pope Francis, « We are allowing the Mediterranean to become a vast cemetery». And that implies, as Mr Prime Minister said here, and very well, a welcome response and a humanitarian response to which Portugal, until it has improved its own condition, is prepared, and indeed, a very high position in the ranking, in this humanitarian response.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u261	But there is also an issue which we think is fundamental, Prime Minister. It is that the humanitarian response is necessary, but it is also necessary for Europe to be intransigent and inflexible in the fight against criminals, trafficking networks and new niggers, who put people on ships to leave them in the middle of the Mediterranean. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And it is also important, Mr Prime Minister — and with this ending this theme — to think of a strategic partnership, where Portugal can play a central role in collaboration with the development of the southern Mediterranean, because only growth and wealth will allow this problem not to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u263	The second issue, quickly, Mr Prime Minister, even to ask for an opinion, is a central issue: the free trade agreement and, in particular, the situation of this free trade agreement between Europe and the United States of America. We have had some vicissitudes in the American position, but it seems to us that the Portuguese position must be a firm position, a position to give relevance to this agreement, to consider it desirable, even because a country which is currently growing 6, 8 % over its best year in terms of exports has all the interest in a transatlantic partnership that obviously places Portugal in the centre of the Atlantic, as a growing country and an exporting country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u265	Finally, Prime Minister, the central theme of this debate : the question of Greece. The question of Greece involves two assumptions. Firstly, it is desirable that Greece remain in the European Union and that Greece remain in the euro. On the other hand, it is essential that the rules be complied with. Having placed these two assumptions, Mr. Prime Minister (and even speaking a little of several truths mentioned here in the debate), I would like to say the following: the indisputable truth is that the starting point of the present Greek Government is not the same, but to some extent similar to the starting point of the Government which you are leading. The starting point is similar: it is a pre-banker. The difference is that Portugal has indeed done, and has done well, its way and that, unfortunately, Greece and the Greek Government do not seem to be able to make the same path. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u266	That is the point. This demonstrates, at the outset, and among other things, Mr. Prime Minister, that it is not possible to assume responsibilities and try to take your people out of an emergency situation—and that is the responsibility of any government—trying to rule with a protest party agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u268	It is not possible, it is not possible to rule with a protest party agenda! As it is not acceptable to use this argument: « We do not pay because someone will then pay our debt, that we already have or that we are trying to contract now». This is also not possible, nor is it acceptable. On the other hand, Prime Minister, the impasse in the Greek negotiations with the European Union is absurd because this impasse does not concern the European Union and certainly does not also interest Greece. And it is clear that Portugal, with the credibility that it has gained, with the authority that Portugal today has to be cited by all, internationally, as the opposite example, as the example of success, of the country that has overcome a crisis situation, Portugal has to say that, in this matter, there must be less tactics and more commitment, there must be less blackmail—including blackmail from Moscow—and more realism, more community realism, there must be much less radicalism and certainly much more common sense. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u269	On the other hand, it is desirable that there should be greater autonomous budgetary capacity in the euro area, as has been said, because this is essential to prevent future crises. Just as it is necessary to strengthen, as we always stand for, and well, the mechanisms for economic governance in the euro area. Portugal is today because it succeeded in fulfilling its programme and leaving the difficult situation in which it was four years ago, in a central position to be able to join its voice with those who defend European solidarity, but solidarity that is only possible on a basis of responsibility. Portugal may and should be at the heart of this discussion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u270	Mr António Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u271	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This is also the last preparatory debate of the European Council we have in this Parliament. It is the last, but it has been instituted in this legislature. for the first time, a government, this government, at the initiative of this Parliament, before each of the European Councils, addressed not only Parliament, but also the country, to say in advance what it wanted from Europe, what it wanted from the European debate. for the first time, this government clearly took its positions. There is an important issue here where it is important to undo a myth: Europe is not only Greece, Europe is 28 countries where Portugal is also included and Portugal is concerned. That is why we will not look only at one State, a State which may call into question the survival of the other 27 States. Therefore, our concern is not only and we are only discussing the question of Greece here, and we also have a very clear position for Greece: we want, we want and we will fight for an agreement, in addition to technical issues, in addition to financial issues, in addition to the issues that are beginning. We will not discuss tenths, we will discuss principles, and these principles have been violated. And this is also a myth that matters here to undo! For example, it was not us who yesterday called for a non-partisan demonstration, before the Greek Parliament, of those who are concerned about the Greek Government's lack of seriousness. We are not the ones who speak here in the name of the Greek people, we are the ones who care here, in the name of the Portuguese people, with the one who is our future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We therefore want to make it clear, as a whole, that our position is to defend Europe from 28, a clear Europe, a Europe of strong politicians, but also a Europe of coherent politicians. And it is also important to say here, still about Greece, that we do not change our position every three months of the passing calendar. We don't have one position in January, another in March, another in May! We have had a clear, consistent and determined position on what is the future of Europe: we have always said that we want Greece within Europe, but we will not mortgage our future. And we will not fail to give simple and simple support to the Greek people, who deserve our concern, but their government, at the moment, does not deserve our respect. It is therefore also important for the Socialist Party to define itself once and for all in this matter and to say what it wants for Greece. Is it the January position, is it the March position or is it the May position? Is that the position of an agreement? At what price do you want this agreement in terms of the future? [[PSD applause.]] It is that we have to account for the Portuguese people, first of all, and only then we will be accountable to Europe, as a whole. Mr Prime Minister, in these four years when we discussed Europe here, we set out in a position where the country did not have the credibility, trust and recognition of international partners. Yesterday, in the whole of the vision of the 28 European States, we found that 27 States recognized the role that we all played in developing the country, in developing the future of our people, through clear and courageous measures in many areas. But in addition to taking a number of positions that are relevant to the recognition of the role of Portugal, we have, above all, taken initiatives. We took the initiative on banking union, we took the initiative on energy union and, above all, on concrete projects that we took to all governments that so far looked disdainfully and turned their backs on Portugal. This was the case at the Madrid Summit. This was the case of the recognition that we have won the Pyrenees'barriers and moved forward, changing the paradigm of Europe's energy supply, changing Europe's geo-strategic position and changing Portugal's position and role in the supply of goods to Europe itself. The Portuguese Government took the initiative. Moreover, this initiative, which is once again marked at the next European Council. It is important to draw attention to the fact that a Portuguese newspaper has today published an open letter in which numerous positions can be read — Mr. Prime Minister has already recalled — as positions of several academics, of several former politicians, of several researchers, of people with weight in Europe, who have passed through several governments of Europe, of several political inspirations from the left to the right, including people linked to the Socialist Party area, by appealing and subscribing to the proposal submitted by the Portuguese Government to the next European Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u272	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u273	Mr Prime Minister, this is the relevant issue at the next European Council, in addition to the Greek question which I am sure will be resolved. This is therefore the future of all of us, of the future together. in this sense, I must only welcome the fact that the Portuguese Government has put forward a clear, concrete, firm initiative that combines technical positions with political determinations regarding the creation of a new instrument, which is the European Monetary Fund, clearly leaving several solutions which are currently borne, also clearly, in this open letter and which indicates a path: the consolidation of what has been built over the last five years; the new outline that is necessary for the euro area; but also, far more importantly, the political dimension and recognition of the Portuguese Government's initiative in this area. It is about this, Prime Minister, that I would like to hear you elaborate a little more, because this is the vital issue, while on all other issues we can agree. On the issue of immigration, it is not safe, it is humanitarian; on the question of Greece, we will certainly reach agreement, because Europe is 28 rather than 27. But the future of Europe, which goes through the creation, maintenance and strengthening of the instruments we already have, will go through those who have the capacity of initiative and decision-making. In this regard, the Portuguese Government, once again, has been convened, has taken the initiative and produced a document which is now covered by the transversality of Europe. In view of this, the Socialist Party will have to assume whether or not it agrees with the position of the Portuguese Government in this area, whether or not it represents an area of consolidation of the European organisation and whether, in this way, we can see the future beyond the foam of Greece and beyond the foam of minor issues because they will be discussed. That is what our future will be. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u274	For an intervention to close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that I will not discuss Greece's situation as if it were a comment film on the positions of the Greek Government and the Eurogroup. I will not accept this position or this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u277	What is happening in Greece is serious. It is unquestionable that Greece has seen its macroeconomic conditions deteriorate — that is objective. Greece was on a path that allowed it to have a significant primary surplus, without which it is not possible to convince investors of a future default of debt. A State which has a very high debt and does not create budgetary conditions to amortize that debt is a State that cannot honour its commitments. That is why, which has no ideological motivation, has a very pragmatic motivation, which all countries that have gone through these circumstances today know fully. When there is no money to deal with responsibilities and what has already been borrowed is too keen to be guaranteed in future payments with the growth of the economy and with the results of budgetary surpluses, then, in this case, countries go through tragic situations. And Greece is currently living in a pre-bank situation. This is assumed by the Greek Minister of Finance and the Greek Prime Minister, who publicly say that they do not have the conditions to honour external payments and have sought, on every route, from all internal bodies, to raise all the funds that were necessary and that would be available to make the payments that were necessary. The last time it was necessary to pay to the International Monetary Fund, it was already used the very cash boxes that were available in the Fund itself, within the country's quota. What it means, therefore, is that what is happening in Greece today is serious; if not, there was not the problem and the drama we are experiencing. The logic that Greece is like this because there is blackmail, arrogance and provocation of the 18 European democracies and their institutions can only be a caricature of bad taste. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u278	I want to say here that I do not confuse governments with peoples, and I do not cease to respect all governments that have been elected by democratic societies, and the same is required throughout the European area. I mean, there are no governments that need to be more respected than others, there are no parliaments that need to be more respected than others. All citizens — Portuguese, Spanish, French, Italian, German, Greek — of the 28 nationalities in Europe and of the 19 euro region deserve to see their governments respected and their sovereignty respected. What happens in the negotiation is what happens with all the negotiations. Mr Ferro Rodrigues does not need to come to regret that I am not in a position to say what the Greek Government separates from the institutions, since Mr Ferro Rodrigues knows that I am not the one conducting the negotiations and that the reservation exists, in principle, in all the negotiations. [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] It is not worth pretending, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues. It's not worth pretending! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The negotiation conducted by the Portuguese Government in 2011 with the institutions was not carried out in the public square. There are no negotiations in the public square and you, who has already been a minister of a government, know that. So, excuse me for pretending you're surprised by these rules. But we know what we mean when we talk in rules. An important rule — and I have already mentioned it here — for a country to be a solver is to be able to present a trajectory of public finances that allows enough cash, the financial availability sufficient to pay the debt charges. There is no obligation of any European country to guarantee the debt of another State. That doesn't exist! We got support when we were unable to solve our responsibilities and that was an expression of European solidarity. And we did so in relation to Greece too. There are bilateral loans of around EUR 1100 million which were made by the Portuguese Government on behalf of the Portuguese Government. It's money from the Portuguese that was lent to Greece. We were the second country, in proportion to GDP, which did the most. at the level of its central bank, we have accumulated Greek public debt securities — only France has more Greek public debt securities as a percentage of GDP than Portugal — I repeat, we have accumulated Greek public debt securities in the Banco de Portugal and we have returned all interest which was credited with these securities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u280	It is only required that Greece comply with what was agreed between the Greek Government and the institutions so that these balances can be returned to Greece. And only for 2014 is that this has not happened, because since August 2014 the evaluation with Greece does not close. As long as this evaluation does not close, as we know from its own experience, it is so for everyone, it is not only for Greece! — it is not possible to finalise the return of the respective tranche, nor of what was agreed, while what is agreed is not fulfilled. We have been, and we are, in solidarity with Greece and we respect Greek democracy. If, on the limit, the Greek Government is not available to accept any conditions, which are conditions imposed on all countries and not on Greece in particular, it is in their right and no one wants to do anything to kneel. All European institutions want an agreement to be reached, and the Portuguese Government too. But if an agreement is to be reached, all parties must agree. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u281	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u282	I hope that the opposition in Portugal will not fall into the caricature of wanting to hold the Portuguese Government accountable for the failure of the Greek Government to agree with the institutions! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] To conclude, I would like to say that we need to offer the Portuguese stability and guarantees. Today, we can do it, but in 2011 we couldn't do it. We want the Portuguese to know that, if there is — what we do not want — a credit event in Greece, we are not in a position to be hit on financial markets in order not to be able to raise the funding we need. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u283	Is this negative? I'd like you to meet me. Members of the opposition would answer this question clearly. Is this negative? Did we fail to be prevented when we were accused, almost like a luxurious whim, of accumulating reserves and deposits—in the words of the Minister of Finance "full safes"—to deal with any unforeseen occurrence? The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who accused us of this whim today, do you think that we have been prevented? [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u284	Please finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u285	They think they're wrong! Be consistent: feel bad! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The gentlemen. Members preferred that Portugal did not have a cough in the safes to deal with a situation of uncertainty! But that is not the case, because, fortunately, Portugal is governed by a prudent government. [[PS protests.]] I would like to conclude by saying that the humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean in particular, contrary to what has been suggested by some opposition parties, is not resolved with an open-ended policy of chaos in Europe. There is no society that has maturity that solves the problems, as Mrs Catarina Martins here wanted to formulate. There is no society that has this maturity, and portuguese does not have it either. Mrs Catarina Martins, candidate in the forthcoming elections to promote an open door policy for all immigration to Portugal and then we will talk at the end of these elections and we will know the result that the Country will give to the Left Block by that position. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] There is no country that can view immigration policies that way, and it is not by chance. It is not to bring chaos to the countries that are wanted that we will be able to resolve humanitarian tragedies. [[BE's protests.]] We need to welcome more immigrants, we need to expand our capacity to accommodate victims of war who invoke the request for political asylum and are available to do so. And, Mr President, we will certainly overcome the worst of this situation by investing, of course, in greater cooperation with the countries of origin. [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] Mr. Ferro Rodrigues is upset that I'm taking so long, and you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u286	Please finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u287	Conclusion, Mr. President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u288	It's just it's been over time in 4 minutes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u289	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the preparatory debate of the European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. The third and fourth points of our agenda today, i.e. Bill No. 344 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Set the new VAT rates to be applied in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and the motions for resolutions 112 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, 113 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the European Union own resources system ( 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom ), made in Brussels, 115 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on the Handling of Sports Competitions, opened for signature in Magglingen on 18 September 2014, and 116 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement concluded between the Portuguese Republic and Imamat Ismaili with a view to establishing its seat in Portugal, signed on 3 June 2015, are only scheduled for the purpose of voting but without time for discussion. We will therefore start the stage of the vote, and I would therefore ask the services to act on the electronic registration mechanism for presences in order to carry out the verification of the deliberation quorum. In the meantime, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to announce the file he has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 1006 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2014 of 6 August establishing the State Secret Supervisory Entity ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolutions 1538 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in partnership with the City Council of Santa Maria da Feira, assess the reopening of the Office of Youth Health Care of Santa Maria da Feira ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which is down to 9. the Commission, and 1539 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of the Mozelos Health Unit and the hiring of the two missing physicians ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which also falls to 9. the Commission. It also gave the Bureau a text to replace draft resolutions 1453/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish the National Day of Gastronomy ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1520 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Institution of the Portuguese Gastronomy Day ( PS ), which establishes the Portuguese Gastronomy National Day, signed by PSD, PS and CDS-PP Members, which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u291	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the electronic verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records the presence of 197 Mrs. Members, to whom Alberto Martins, of the PS, and Antonio Filipe, of the PCP, add a total of 199 Members present. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting with vote No 290 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of former MP Antonio Marques Mendes ( PSD ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u292	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António Joaquim Bastos Marques Mendes died at 81 years of age, graduated in law from the University of Coimbra, lawyer, politician and association leader. António Marques Mendes, natural of Porto, made a career as a lawyer, a profession that he practiced in Fafe, still held the presidency of the General Assembly of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia local. Democratic convinced and committed, actively participated in the political process after 25 April 1974, having been founder of the PSD — Democratic Social Party (originally PPD — Democratic People's Party ) together with Francisco Sá Carneiro, Francisco Pinto Balsamão and Joaquim Magalhães Mota. Since early involved in political action, he began his career as president of the Fafe City Hall. Subsequently, he served as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic elected by the electoral circle of Braga, I, III, IV, V and VI, and was still a Member of the European Parliament between 1987 and 1994. He was the father of four children, including the former MP, parliamentary leader of the PSD and Minister Luís Marques Mendes and Clara Marques Mendes, current PSD deputy elected by the Braga circle. António Marques Mendes is in the history of Portuguese democracy by the committed form and active participant in various areas of intervention, as well as the registration of social intervention with local, regional and national dimensions. It is also noted its prominent role as a PSD activist since the first hour, having made a significant contribution to its party and social democracy in Portugal. Portugal lost a prestigious lawyer, a prominent humanist and a high-ranking citizen of great personal size. Portugal loses the main actors in the consolidation of democracy and in Portuguese public life. To the bereaved family, the Assembly of the Republic presents the most sympathy».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u293	Allow me, on my own behalf, on behalf of the Bureau and on behalf of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, to join me in a particularly affectionate and affectionate way in this vote of regret. I had the privilege of getting to know him very well and being friends with Dr. António Marques Mendes, I had long conversations with him, when we were here together, in the Assembly of the Republic, I often asked him for opinions and even advice, in the political and legal domain, areas that dominated in an exymia way, and in his person I had the extraordinary record of an exemplary citizen. He was a politically committed man who really had a characteristic that makes us think about how we see political activity today. There is much assertion that what does not have media projection does not exist politically and I think that Dr.António Marques Mendes has had the exceptional merit, that it will perhaps be a lesson for all of us, to be an extremely discreet man, which did not prevent him from leaving a very profound mark in the performance of the political functions he has exercised. He was perhaps often fleeing from this outside, from this media projection, but when he has value, as he had, he can, however, leave the mark and legacy he left us. Of course, a special word for Dr. Clara Marques Mendes, our colleague, Dr. Luís Marques Mendes, who also passed through here in the exercise of the relevant political positions we know, finally, to his entire family, wife, children and grandchildren. The Assembly of the Republic is very much associated with this vote and presents its condolences to the family. I register the presence of the Government, which is also significant to associate with this moment of homage and regret vote for the death of Dr. António Marques Mendes. Let us then vote on vote No 290 / XII ( 4 ). ( a), Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence in memory of Dr. António Marques Mendes. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the other votes. As we have a long script, I would ask all of you to cooperate. Members and the leadership of the parliamentary groups to vote in the best way and with the greatest speed. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1515 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to the Government to value public school as a pillar of the democratic regime ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 305 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the indefinite recruitment of non-teachers in public schools ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1511 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The lifting and supply of permanent needs of non-doctoral staff in schools ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u294	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u295	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u296	Mr President, I just want to announce that a group of Members from PSD / Porto and CDS-PP / Porto will present a joint declaration of vote on the last two votes we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u297	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1260/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the urgent government requalify the road link IC2 ( Arrifana / Escapães ) - Nó A1 ( Santa Maria da Feira ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u298	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u299	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u300	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Members elected by the Aveiro electoral circle will present a declaration of vote, since there is already a recommendation by the Assembly of the Republic in the same direction of this draft resolution and that the Government recently announced the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u301	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1533 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures aimed at defending the public, universal and supportive character of social security, adequate financing of the social security system and transparency in the use of its financial resources ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The general vote is followed in the overall speciality and finality of Bill No 344 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Set the new VAT rates to be applied in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u302	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u303	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u304	Mr President, as agreed at the Conference of Leaders, it is to require the final drafting of this diploma and the reduction of the claim deadline to the minimum.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u305	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on this request. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and the Greens and the abstention of PS Member Pedro Delgado Alves.]] We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 112 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] The vote was followed by motion for a resolution No 113 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the European Union own resources system ( 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom ), made in Brussels. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes were adopted with votes in favour of the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on motion for a resolution No 115 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on the Handling of Sports Competitions, opened for signature in Magglingen on 18 September 2014. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now turn to the vote on motion for a resolution No 116 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement concluded between the Portuguese Republic and Ismaili Imamat with a view to establishing its seat in Portugal, signed on 3 June 2015. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u306	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u307	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u308	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u309	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u310	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u311	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u312	in the same sense, Mr President, to indicate that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present in writing a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u313	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1458/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for the protection of the territory between the towns of Birre-Aldeia de Juzo and Areia ( Cascais ), including the full risk assessment by ANPC ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 1485 / XII ( 4 ) follows ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the extension of the transitional scheme for the completion of the degree of Doctor and effective hiring with public links of public higher education teachers ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1512 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the transitional period provided for in the status of university and technical higher education, ensuring conditions for the completion of the doctoral professions and correcting injustices ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1521 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure fairness in the application of transitional schemes for public higher education ( PS ) education career statutes. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1527 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures relating to the application of the transitional provisions of the Staff Regulations for the Teaching of Political Higher Education ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1497/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by valuing vocational education and ensuring equal opportunities for all students ( CFPs ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1507 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Denial of the grant of Youth Pousadas ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1509 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the public management of the Youth Pousadas ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1524 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the granting of Youth Pousadas and maintain the current National Youth Pousadas Network ( presented by PS Member Laurentino Dias ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1496 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Against the decharacterization of the beach of D. Ana, in Lagos ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1117 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of the Foz Figure wave, considered in the PENT as the longest ( right ) wave in the European continent ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication on Bill No 506 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regulates the promotion of transparency of ownership and management of entities pursuing social communication activities ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, having no opposition and resulting from the agreement of the directors of all parliamentary boards, we shall proceed to the vote, in general, in the specialty, assuming the plenary the indexary votes held within the Commission, and in the overall final, of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the projects of lein. 515 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Procedure 31. the amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, creating the crime of female genital mutilation ( CDS-PP ), 517 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Autonomizes the criminalization of female genital mutilation - 31. the amendment to the Penal Code ( PSD ), 647 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by criminalizing persecution and forced marriage ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 659 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by creating crimes of persecution and forced marriage in accordance with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention ( PS ), 661 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal type of sexual harassment in the Penal Code ( BE), 663 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates the legal type of persecution in the Penal Code ( BE), 664 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Change the legal forecast of crimes of rape and sexual coercion in the Criminal Code ( BE) and 665 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the nature of the crime of rape, making it public ( BE) crime. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Cecilia Honorio, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u314	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Left Block will deliver a statement of vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u315	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Isabel Moreira asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u316	Yes, Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will also give a vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u317	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, on the proposal for a law No 321/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal arrangements for the organisation of the services of inter-municipal entities and the status of their respective management staff. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall continue with the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for law No 318 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2015 - 2017, in accordance with Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May, which approves the Framework Law on Criminal Policy. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 319 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July adopting the Basics of Civil Protection Act. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for a law No 325 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Procedure 37. the amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, fully transposed Directives 2008 / 99 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on protection of the environment by criminal law, and 2009 / 123 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 amending Directive 2005 / 35 / EC on pollution by ships and the introduction of sanctions in the event of infringements. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and the Greens and abstains from the PCP and BE.]] The general vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft law No 530 / XII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for electoral coverage and regulates electoral propaganda through commercial advertising ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The authors of this diploma withdrew their initiative in favour of the replacement text. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, two requests have been submitted by the plenary of Articles 6. a is 7. Article 9 ( 3 ) and ( 3 ). the — requirement of PSD and CDS-PP, and of Articles 4. it's 6. o — PCP requirement. Since there is no opposition, we shall vote on the two demands together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now discussing the amendments tabled for those articles. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u318	Mr President, I believe that today we will come to the end of a very long process, already over a year and a half, but that will put an end to a situation of doubt and even anguish for the Portuguese media that during the election campaign, during the electoral period that begins with the publication of the decree marking the date of the election act, were deprived of the editorial freedom and freedom of the press that is guaranteed to them in the remaining periods. Several solutions have been attempted. This process, as I said, was long, it was morbid and complex. The PSD Parliamentary Group, in this whole process, has always maintained a course of action which has been to provide the social media with an increased dose of freedom of the press, the same or that which is permitted by our Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u320	There are constitutional restrictions and we, the PSD Parliamentary Group, cannot go beyond these constitutional restrictions. however, the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP in 2015 have the duty — and we assume — to bring to the law that deals with this problem an up-to-date interpretation that is absolutely consistent with the times in which we live, with the reality that are today the electoral campaigns and with what are today the media bodies, in which the principle of equality and non-discriminatory treatment of the various applications is related and is harmonized with the principle of editorial freedom and programming of the media bodies. There were several stages in this process, there were evolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u321	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u322	I will finish, Mr. President. The proposal for an amendment which we are discussing here today, as well as the rules which have been advocated at this time for plenary are going, as I said, exactly in the same direction. From today onwards, from the time of the adoption and publication of this new law, thanks to the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP, the editorial and programming freedom of the media bodies will be the paradigm during the election campaigns, which did not happen so far. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u323	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Luís Pita Amisema has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u324	Mr President, today we are faced with new proposals, different from those already discussed in the Commission. It is important to know the foundations and motivation of its proponents for the positioning of the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u325	You will have time to speak and ask these questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u326	Mr President, I am just basing my plea, which will not be understandable if I do not allow myself to base it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u327	But the questions that you are asking, you could put in your speech, in the time allocated to your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u328	It has nothing to do with it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u329	It's just that if we don't, we're going to have a different time criterion. In conclusion, please, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u330	It is important for the Assembly of the Republic, the Plenary and the Socialist Party in particular to know the foundations and motivation of the proposals. There is a proposal that was submitted by the PPD-PSD and the CDS-PP, so it is also important for us to know the foundations and motivation of the proposer CDS-PP. I would therefore like to ask Mr President, with regard to the conduct of the work...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u331	I'm sorry, but Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim made an intervention that was explanatory to what he was conveying. But there will still be a CDS-PP intervention. Mr President, before the intervention by the parties that are signatories to these amendments, it seems to me a little premature to know whether they will be sufficiently explanatory. That is why there are times for discussion. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u332	Mr President, thank you very much for letting me finish. My intervention goes in the following direction: for our position, for our speech and for our vote it is very important to know the foundations and motivation of the proposers of the proposal. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u333	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u334	Mr President, with regard to the conduct of the work, I would like to ask the following: this proposal has already been tabled orally by the PSD, but as for us, it should also be by the CDS-PP. That is, if the CDS-PP, as proposer...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u335	Mr President, this is a criterion for each parliamentary group. Each party will know what to subscribe to or not to subscribe to.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u336	Mr President, you have to let me put the question to you regarding the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u337	The honourable Member is creating a difficulty for me, which is that of the Socialist Party having a time greater than that which is reserved, on an equal footing, for all parliamentary groups. We have already noticed that their concerns are related to the lack of much explanation about the reasons for the proposals put forward by the parliamentary groups and I have already drawn attention to the fact that there is still one of the parliamentary groups that subscribes to the proposal that has not been made. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u338	Mr President, with all the respect I have for you and for your role, I have said nothing about the substance of the matter and the proposals. I am speaking on how the work is being carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u339	Mr President, we have already realized the concern of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u340	Let him speak freely, Mr President!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u341	Mr President, there is a party, which is the CDS-PP, which is a proposer and which must speak This is the issue, which you must resolve once you preside over this session.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u342	Mr President, the Bureau would like to respond to requests for an appeal that involve an intervention by the Bureau, but it cannot, with the parliamentary groups, impose that they support, justify and even intervene. This is a right which the parliamentary groups have. Keep track of your concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u343	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u344	Mr Luís Pita Amisexa, I am sorry, but you have already made your inquiry. at the beginning of these votes, I informed the House that we were already in a late hour, so I would like to have the cooperation of all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. I know that you are working together, that you have exceptional work and that is needed at any bench, but in these circumstances you are not helping the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u345	Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u346	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u347	Mr President, first of all, I would like to address you personally to say the following: the question I want to ask is about the conduct of the work, and if I hadn't been interrupted, particularly by you, it would have been long before this was over. I'm not the one who's betting. Secondly, I would like to say that either the CDS already intervenes as a proposer, basing and motivating its proposal, or that it does not always take part in this concrete debate. This is my question about the conduct of the work, and you, Mr President, if I may, should ask the CDS whether it is already or not to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u348	Mr President, I am very sorry, but the Bureau does not enter into a situation of non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. I can't ask the CDS-PP whether it's going to intervene or what it's going to say or not. Be patient, sir! In fact, I have even a little idea of interference... I don't know if this has any projection for the future, if it has another reason to be, but from a regiment point of view it creates a difficulty at the Bureau. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u349	Mr President, it is regrettable that a matter of this kind has this kind of treatment at the end of the proceedings. But, circumstances in which others are responsible we will not try to explain them. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, reaching the end of this legislative process, the view that the CFP has about the law that will be passed is that this will not only solve problems that existed in the coverage of electoral campaigns as it could be a cause of new problems, not only on formal issues, but also on the substance of the proposal itself. in our view, one of these problems will result from the fact that the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, the clarification of voters, the contradiction, freedom of the press, the right to inform and be informed or the freedom of propaganda disappear from the text of the law, not to solve problems that existed, but as a factor that will certainly add new problems to the coverage of electoral campaigns. Moreover, indeterminate criteria and concepts are introduced where the intention was to regulate specific aspects of the journalistic coverage, as we had previously had the opportunity to signal in the debate of the specialty. This option will certainly be a factor of uncertainty and conflict because it admits the arbitrary decision, which can be just and discriminatory, and which will again, very likely, push to the courts the fairness of decisions on the issue of coverage of electoral campaigns or the conduct of debates. Finally, this will be a law whose violation has no consequences. This aspect we wanted to point out - particularly with regard to one of the proposals submitted by the PSD and the CDS, with regard to Article 9 ( 3 ). the, because it is not the warning sanctions provided for in the ERC Law that will prevent the violation of the law. The abolition of the sanctions regime has transformed this law into a law that can not be respected without any consequences from there, and that is something that we have signalled as negative. We also hope that with the approval of the proposals for lawyers presented by the CFP in relation to Articles 4. it's 6. the, in particular by trying to include in the text of the law those fundamental principles that I have already pointed out as principles that disappear from the text of the law, can be solved and that, at least by this way, no new problems are added to those that already existed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u350	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said that this process was long. Mr. Deputies, you've been confused! It has long started, it has been in the bathroom for too long and has now known this final sprint which, from our point of view, gives rise to stalled solutions, including the introduction, as we well know yesterday, of indeterminate concepts that will increase uncertainty in the face of the problems they intend to solve. And I would like to point out a problem which seems to us to be worth a word on your part, particularly in this context of debate. It is a law without consequences, it is not the 'rappanets' of the ERC that will resolve the non-compliance of what it stipulates and therefore there is no true penalty for the non-compliance of this law in this process which you considered to be so long and that we consider to be confused, incomplete and unsatisfactory with regard to expectations. Well, if this is not, after all, absolute freedom, we don't necessarily know what it is either. Finally, we believe that the role assigned to the National Elections Commission in this law is a very small role. He is given a status as a'mailbox', devaluing his fundamental role in the history of democracy. And we recognize that the PS has made an extraordinary effort to make this happen and VV. Ex. They ended up falling and accepting. from our point of view, these are, among others, the problems, uncertainties and lack of solutions that would be desirable not to happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u352	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the version of this diploma covering election campaigns by the media, in the part where it ends up bringing innovations, is due to the contributions of the Socialist Party's initiative. But unfortunately, the final mark of the diploma has, emblematically, the CDS footprint. The CDS prevented the PSD from approaching the natural consequences of the positions defended by the Socialist Party and by preventing that broad understanding from happening, the CDS and the PSD, with the advocacy they make today, still aggravate what is at stake. It tells our Constitution that, during the election campaign period, applications should be governed by a principle of equal opportunities and treatment. What the PSD and the CDS have been doing, further exacerbating, in matters of debate, is establishing in the law the principle of inequality of opportunity and treatment of applications. And they do it in a way that radicalizes the problem. Yesterday, in the Commission, it was still admitted that the social media bodies had as one of the important criteria the relevance of the political proposals presented ; today this aspect is eliminated only to take account of the representativeness acquired in the last elections. That is, scandalously, what is involved is to ensure for the system the protection of those within the system, to the detriment and with evident discrimination of all other applications that constitutionally should also see guaranteed the principle of equal opportunities. It is therefore a regrettable and even more regrettable consequence when this whole rule extends throughout the whole electoral period, from the date of the marking of elections, for almost two months, until the elections take place. To speak of the autonomy of the media is therefore a pure hypocrisy. What the PSD and the CDS have come here today is a tribute to political hypocrisy, which will remain in this debate and in this diploma as a case of study of illegitimate protectionism by those who judge themselves in the right to protect themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u354	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have waited quietly for all the criticisms, with the fear, at some point, of being told that we would have to speak at that time or shut up forever, which left us something worried. I'm glad it wasn't like that. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] I heard right now that there was a problem of hypocrisy here, and that the PS this, and that the PS that... regarding the "PS this" and the "PS that", I would like to ask: which PS? Which one? What is now here, today, or the other, that had made the first proposal with a joint committee and with a prior visa? Which PS? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] By the way, Mr. Member, and about the previous visa, where is this PS?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u356	Where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u357	Where are the Members with us negotiating this first project? I don't see them there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u358	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u359	Mr. President, this bill is made to respond to a problem. And the problem was the existence, in two consecutive elections, of a boycott, which we cannot ignore, of the coverage of election campaigns. This problem exists, it is a real problem and it is a problem that needs to be solved. What is the heart, what is the soul of the bill? As has been said here, and well, by Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, the soul is to approach this project, respecting the Constitution, as far as possible, an idea and a concept of editorial freedom. This is the fundamental idea, this is the central idea, ensuring, at the same time, pluralism and representativeness of the various political forces. I mean, in the news coverage, what do we do? We have replaced an equal concept, in which everything has to be treated equally and at the same time by a concept that I called — and I think that with property — of aristothelic equality. In other words, it is necessary to treat equally what is equal and in different ways facts that have or do not have the same relevance. This is on the news. But all this was agreed, in all this there was agreement, not to pretend otherwise, Mr Jorge Lacão. There was a point of the project that the Socialist Party has never accepted and that is an important point for the CDS, I do not hide it and we assume - that if it is not possible to have discussions with 12, 13, 14 or 15 parties - because it is not possible for all of us, who have been having discussions for many years, we know that debates with 15 people do not reach a single electorate - it is necessary to find a reasonable rule for the debates. And, for us, the reasonable rule is to establish that the criterion of election in the previous election gives that party the right to be in the debates, which means that in the forthcoming elections the coalition, the Socialist Party, the PCP and the Left Block will necessarily be in the debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u360	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u361	But they are historical parties of Portuguese democracy, which are not here by chance, they are here because they had votes. And no one has the CDS for two things: no one has the CDS to create artificial bipartisanism in Portuguese society and no one has the CDS to make order laws corresponding to economic interests, editorial interests or any other kind of interest. They don't count on that. [[CDS-PP applause.]] One last question, Mr. President, for which I ask you 15 seconds...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u362	Please finish. I know that Mr Pita Amisena wanted to hear it, but he has already exceeded his time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u363	Mr President, it is in the interest of Mr Pita Amisema and so that he does not go on weekend with a doubt that assaults him.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u364	You're done, you're done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u365	I would just like to clarify Mr Pita Amisena because we have changed and because the initiative has fallen. It was said here by Mrs Cecilia Honorio and also, in other words, by Mr João Oliveira, that there were many indeterminate concepts. What we are now looking for with this amendment is to withdraw as much as possible from undetermined concepts. In other words, the relevance of the proposals is interpreted by whom? Is it interpreted in what way? Is it interpreted by what criterion? Does it or does it not give rise to questions and debates in court, as Mr João Oliveira has said? We have withdrawn this concept. It remains only an objective concept, which is representation in previous elections, respecting the Constitution and ensuring pluralism, which is an obligation of our democracy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u366	With no further interventions, we shall vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 4. the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 530 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of journalistic coverage in electoral period and regulates electoral propaganda through commercial advertising ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which I presume has been distributed and therefore is knowledge of the various benches. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4 [...] 1 — The journalistic coverage by the media during the election campaign period should ensure the clarification of voters, the contradiction between political projects to suffrage, freedom to press, the right to inform and be informed and the principles of freedom of propaganda, equal treatment and non-discrimination and impartiality of public entities before applications. 2 — In the electoral period, the media shall ensure respect for the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination and shall enjoy editorial freedom and programming autonomy, without prejudice to the provisions of the following articles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u367	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 6. that of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 6 [...] During the electoral period, the media should observe balance and equity in the treatment of news, fact reports or events of information value and journalistic relevance, related to the various applications.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u368	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PSD and the CDS-PP amending Article 6. the ( Equal opportunities and treatment of the various applications) of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Article 6 Equal opportunities and treatment of various applications During the election campaign period, the media should observe balance, representativeness and equity in the treatment of the news, fact reports or events of information regarding the various applications, taking into account their editorial relevance and in accordance with the effective possibilities of coverage of each organ.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u369	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u370	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u371	Mr President, since the vote on the proposal for an amendment to Rule 7 follows. I request the joint vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 and then separately on paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u372	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, in the part in which it amends Article 7 (1) and (2). ( Debates between nominations) of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 1 — In the electoral period, the debates between applications promoted by the media are based on the principle of editorial freedom and programming autonomy, taking into account the political and social representativeness of competing applications. 2 — The political and social representativeness of the candidatures is measured in the light of the candidature having obtained representation in the last elections concerning the body to which it is applied.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u373	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, in the part in which Article 7 ( 3 ) is amended. that of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The provisions in the previous paragraph do not prejudice the possibility of the media to include, in the exercise of their editorial freedom, other candidatures in the debates which are being promoted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u374	The vote on the proposal was followed by the PSD and the CDS-PP, amending Article 9 ( 3 ). the (complaints) of the replacement text. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE and abstentions of the PS, the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The ERC will appreciate the claim under its jurisdictions, in particular under Articles 63 et seq. of Law No 53/2005 of 8 November.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u375	The vote is followed by the vote on the text of the replacement text by the plenary of the other indexary votes held within the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote, with the amendments adopted in the meantime, of the replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on draft law No 530 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for electoral coverage and regulates electoral propaganda through commercial advertising ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication, which will be voted on after its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Comarca de Lisboa - Almada - Local Court-Criminal Section-J1, Case No. 729 / 12.0TAALM, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mrs Celeste Correia ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings under the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-19.u377	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our work today. [[The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 24th, 14th and 30 minutes, with the following items on the agenda:]] 1 — Debate, in general, of Bill No 335 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Transposing Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, establishes the legal framework for non-judicial dispute resolution mechanisms; 2 — General discussion of Bill No 337 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences in criminal matters imposing imprisonment or other measures deprived of liberty for the purposes of the implementation of those judgments in the European Union, as well as the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of judgments and decisions relating to parole for the purpose of monitoring surveillance and alternative sanctions by transposing Framework Decisions Nos. 2008 / 909 / JAI, of the Council, and 2008 / 947 / JAI, of both 27 November 2008 ; 3 — General discussion of Bill No 336 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ; 4 — Evaluation of the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) ; 5 — Overall appreciation of draft resolution No 1483/ XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the exercise of the criminologist profession ( PSD ) and petition No 261 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Submitted by Vítor Miguel Pereira da Silva and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to be recognized as a criminologist in Portugal; 6 — Assessment of petition No 473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering ( SUPERA), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish legislation on residences and improve the care provided to persons with serious motor disabilities; 7 — Assessment of petition No 450 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Paulo Jorge Melich Farinha and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the possibility of State intervention for the establishment of a public service for the carriage of passengers by ferry by ferry between Madeira and the continent; 8 — Assessment of petition No 452 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by SINTAP ( Union of Public Administration Workers and Public Entities), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to take urgent measures against the application of the social security requalification scheme. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 15 minutes.]]
