ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, to whom I would like to congratulate, Mr. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 11 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: draft resolution No 1430 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the prohibition of neonicotinoid pesticides for the protection of the population of bees, ecosystems and agriculture ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; Bills No 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act ( PSD / CDS-PP ) and 880 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Legalizes the cultivation of cannabis for personal consumption and creates the legal framework for canabis social clubs ( BE ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u3	Mrs. Members, we are on the agenda with the urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the situation of child and youth protection committees. The model of this debate consists of three phases: the opening up of the PS, the requesting party, and the Government, with the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security ; the debate itself, with two rounds of interventions ; and finally the closure, with the interventions of the Government and the PS. To open the debate, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security comes to Parliament today at the initiative of the Socialist Party to report to the Portuguese, but we know that yesterday he came to Parliament to hand over the annual report on children in situations of reception to the President of the Assembly of the Republic. A very diligent action on your part, Mr Minister, in view of the state in which you put the protection system for children and young people at risk, but would have been so diligent, even after having degraded working conditions in the protection committees, if you had publicly shown solidarity with men and women who daily give your best at the service of the committees, far beyond what is required of them, who are now going through so many constraints, unequivocally on behalf of the real interest of the child. But it's the government we have, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party has called on the Government to report to Parliament on the destruction process to which the protection system is being dragged, but the Socialist Party wants to make it very clear that this debate is imposed beyond all the contingencies that may exist and that have occurred in recent weeks, with the brutal death of two children, which we deeply regret. Situations of such heinous mistreatment may even exist in families that are not marked. We must all be very careful, but these are not the situations that require the government to be present in this House. What the Socialist Party demands and what the Portuguese want to know is why the government has been taking means and weakening the protection system in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Commission A is one of the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) with a higher procedural volume in the country, manages more than 1500 cases. After the instructions of the ISS ( Institute of Social Security ) for the withdrawal of reinforcement technicians, there are only two full-time technicians. in Commission B, as in the vast majority of CPCJs with a high number of signals, more than 50 % of the procedural volume has been ensured by strengthening technicians, who have now been removed by social security. How does the Minister intend to strengthen the committees? Will you open new competitive procedure when you sent for technical requalification with years of experience in promotion and protection? What reasons have led to the change in the criteria initially defined for the allocation of reinforcement technicians? In some protection committees, an extraordinary process of cooperation of technicians is being developed so that they can claim that they have technicians and that the information that runs from lack of technicians in the committees is false. Specialization in social intervention is increasingly an imperative. The promotion and protection model is excellent, but being emptied, as is said in the popular giraffe, it is impossible to make eggless omelettes. The reports I just read are citations in the first person who arrived at the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, from protection committees throughout the country. However, Mr Minister, let us turn to the facts : in 2010 the Social Security Institute admitted 153 technicians to strengthen committees. In each committee which had more than 150 procedures a strengthening technician was placed; in committees with more than 300 procedures two reinforcement technicians were placed, and so on. These technical reinforcements, with specific profiles and academic training, admitted by competition, were conducted hundreds of hours of training, for the identification of risk situations, for the management of partnerships, for the work with families, for the monitoring and for the implementation of measures. And, Mr Minister, by the end of 2011 the Social Security Institute began to withdraw these technicians and affect them in general social security services. of the 153 reinforcement technicians admitted in 2010 remain at present 34. When you sent for retraining, i.e., you fired social security technicians, removed technicians from the restricted committees, some were presidents, arguing that they were not necessary. A disembarkation, Minister! On 3 May 2015, by order of the Board of Directors of the Institute of Social Security, instructions are given to ensure that the full-time allocation of technicians to the committees is carried out in accordance with the following criteria : only from 300 established procedures will the commissions be entitled to a full-time technician, who will have to manage up to 500 cases, and if the Commission has between 500 and 700 procedures it will have the right to two technicians. Does the Minister think it is humanly possible for a full-time technician to follow up to 500 cases? Identifying risk situations? Install processes? Applying measures? Follow measures and follow families? Do you think it is humanely possible, Minister? Do you think this is how children's rights are protected? [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the set of measures to encourage the birth of members of the PSD and the CDS, a draft resolution will be voted on recommending to the Government measures to strengthen protection committees. It's April 10th. It is very interesting, because 15 days ago, in a parliamentary debate, you are very curious. Members of the PSD and the CDS considered that there was no problem in the protection committees, in the hearing of Mr. President of the National Commission, that there were no problems in the protection committees and now suddenly they have had a raise of conscience and come to propose that the measures in the protection committees be strengthened. What hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, there are issues that you will have to explain to the Portuguese, you will have to tell us how many technicians will put in the protection committees. Mr Minister, you have to explain to us what the inter-municipal committees you are talking about are. We want you to tell us what the phrase "possibility of the National Commission to protocol community support technicians" means. What are the local cooperation protocols to give greater presence of means in the committees that the CDS says are already in progress? What was the value of the money transferred to the authorities, who claim to have increased, and what were the criteria for this supposed increase? It is that the protocol that is in force for support of the operation and the funds that are transferred to the authorities did not have any change and the last account of social security which you have published does not show any change either. Therefore, Minister, we want objective answers. With regard to the chaos in the protection committees today, Mr President of the National Commission on this situation, he said that there was an emergency situation and that, until the question of human resources was resolved, the situation would tend to worsen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there was no measure that this Government had taken on social security that had visible and favorable results for the Portuguese. And once again, the Minister either flees to the questions or is on the wrong side of those who need it, in this case, is on the wrong side with regard to children, families and professionals involved in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The disqualification that you are making of the protection system has confirmed this sad reality. at the end of four years, you are unable to trace and implement a strategy to enhance the protection and promotion system of children's rights. It is not the revision of the legislation, Minister, that is to say that the law which has been unanimously approved by the Assembly of the Republic is to be complied with. Mr Minister, you have ideological prejudices against public service, have a very bad relationship with social rights and social inclusion, show no recognition or respect for professionals and, with the emptying of protection committees, are depriving these children, children who, due to their fragile situation, need the protection of the State. And they can say that they're going to hire technicians and train using structural funds, it's going to be a transitional situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u5	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u6	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, it will be a transitional situation to solve a problem that you have created. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have removed technicians and now use structural funds to solve a problem they have created. And when the structural funds are finished, will the committees be privatized, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u7	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u8	I'm done now, Madam President. Mr Minister, these children, due to their fragile situation, need the protection of the State. They are children with rights, who are legitimately consecrated to them, children whose rights the government is not promoting or even safeguarding. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u9	Even during the opening of the debate, the Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A minor always requires greater care. because of its vulnerability, children and young people have specific and special rights within the protection that has been established in human rights. European society, in fact, has gained certain values, established a framework of ethical, social, cultural and political values that are now seen as enormous civilizational achievements and Portugal integrates, as a full member, this European family, as part of this civilizational heritage. That is why this debate today is such an important debate and must therefore be peaceful and high. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u11	Also assuming this responsibility, and in the sense of the requirement that we should pursue, the government began to work towards a greater capacity for intervention, which is certainly possible only thanks to the commitment of hundreds of Portuguese members of the child and youth protection committees and to one of the most undisturbed figures and personalities of our daily, Counsellor Judge Armando Leandro. Ladies and gentlemen. Members in the past and since 1991 the CPCJ activity assessment reports were annual. at this time, once the numbers were known, the answers arrived late and interventions were often taken out of context. Because it is not effective, this government has ensured that reports have become semi-annual, allowing for greater adjustment and adaptation to needs and reality itself. Traditionally, we had groups of young people who were not in the sphere of protection. With an increase in education up to 12. the year we also extended the number of young people who are under the radar and protection of CPKJ. This was an important development that reinforced, even more, the need for greater coordination among agents and to deepen further on the ground one of the basic and essential requirements of the CPCJs, multidisciplinary. These teams must be interinstitutional and interdisciplinary, so they must not indicate two different guardianships with equal capacities, i.e. education should not indicate a teacher and then social security should also indicate a teacher and must, rather, indicate someone in the social area. Only in this way do we gain a comprehensive dimension so that we can overcome the obstacles. According to the most recent data, the overall number of CPCJ-affected members not only increased explicitly in this mandate—in 2011, were 4526 and at the end of 2014 were 5165—as their composition became richer, in terms of representativeness. Today, education affects more people to CPJ than it affected in 2011, a total of 308, and in CPJs with more than 1000 processes, contrary to what happened in the past, particularly when we took possession, education began to affect full-time teachers, which means that we have people for more hours in critical and sensitive areas. Health at the end of 2014 affected more people to CPCJ than in 2011 in a total of 303 people; municipalities affected more people to CPCJ than in 2011 in a total of 308 people;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u12	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God! The CDS-PP says no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u13	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u14	...the same happened to the security forces, to the elements coopted, to the members indicated by the social institutions, giving a unequivocal sign that we can indeed walk towards a multidisciplinary nature. Today, compared to 2011, social security has long-term CPCJ-affected technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u15	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u16	in total, are today more than 1278 hours dedicated exclusively to CPCJ than in 2011. from that we understand the data we know today: more people, more hours, are more processed processes. According to the latest data, more than 3600 processes are dealt with in 2011. with regard to social security, we had even increased attention. Not only is the representation of social security adequately ensured by the Social Security Institute in the 278 CPCJs existing in the continental territory, as in 33 % of the cases, the allocation of technicians is greater than the criteria provided for in the criteria, those which have been established in full co-operation with the National Commission,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u17	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u18	... which agreed with them, and which, on average, give a ratio of 40 cases per technician, per year, quite far from the 500 cases that the Socialist Party was now claiming. But, as far as this particular is concerned, let me say here that the impact of the requalification process on the CPCJ universe is only 14 people, all of whom are now replaced by technicians in the social area. [[PS and PCP protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want this reinforcement to be even greater in the future, proposing an increase to 3604 hours per week exclusively devoted to the processes of these children. It is a concern that the government does not have from now on. When, about two years ago, we moved forward to the Children's Agenda, we set this issue as a priority. Today, we have two committees, headed by two Attorney-Generals-General of the Republic, which are issuing their conclusions, which will enable Parliament and the Government to move forward with the revision of existing legislation. A first step is clearly to provide the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk of Administrative Self-Government, which is also in line with what we have sought to do, which is the strengthening of CPCJs. But, in a complementary and specialized response, in a preventive action and the amount of the problem, the Government has chosen a clear strategic priority for the qualification of social responses, resulting in the stabilization of the number of children in a foster situation. The participation of children's homes and youth increased significantly: from €470 / child in 2010 to €700 / child, i.e. more €230 / child or young person in a childhood and youth home, in a total annual investment of more than €38 million. But we also increased the response capacity in early intervention in childhood, in the known SNIPI (National System of Early Intervention in Children), since more than 5000 children, between 2012 and 2014, passed through the services of the SNIPI, also strengthening the local intervention teams (ELI) of the districts of Aveiro, Braga, Porto, Viana do Castelo and Viseu, thus covering more than 600 children, through the hiring of more than 36 professionals. in support and family counseling centres, also known as CAFAP ( Center for Family Support and Parental Counseling ), we will strengthen, by the end of April, 13 more cooperation agreements, covering more 3132 people. Of course, we always have the notion of the reality of the country and that the reality of the country is not the same. Therefore, in the CPCJ of the metropolitan areas, with more than 500 processes established annually, and in others in more rural areas, with volumes below the 20 processes established, the response cannot be the same. That is why we want an evolution and a reinforcement that is tailored to these needs. in the future, follow-up and intervention will be even better, always with this notion present. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] About a year ago, we started negotiations with the European Commission and it was possible to see a programme for the prevention and training of vulnerable families. This programme, which comes under the name Positive Parentality, has financial coverage in the new Community framework. As an amount of EUR 12, EUR 6 million is included for the training of CPCJ technicians and for the qualification of institutional support for children and young people. in this area of support for children and young people at risk, the candidatures, moreover, will open already in June, which means that it was a clearly priority area. In June, this whole reality will have a new and positive development. But even there, we still want to move forward with an answer of proximity and that it is appropriate for the specific situations that happen today. To this end, let me announce that, at very short notice, we will contract with the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) the follow-up of children and young people at risk, integrating their technicians into committees that are under greater pressure today. It will be an annual investment of around EUR 116 000, which will allow these CPCJs to be equipped with these technicians that make the connection to the community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have children and young people at risk. The truth is that the number of cases has decreased, but that is why we can't slow down the work we've been doing. There are achievements that push us towards the future and that we, indeed, cannot abdicate, because it is the future of children, and in this sense also a part of the future of Portugal, which is being built. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u19	Let us now turn to the speeches, to which the Bureau already records several entries. in the first round, Mr. Deputies José Manuel Canavarro, João Paulo Pedrosa, Inês Teotónio Pereira, Rita Rato, Mariana Aiveca, José Luís Ferreira, and also the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security. Mr José Manuel Canavarro, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on the subject which today raises the debate here in this House. It is always an important issue, it deals with situations of social and psychological vulnerability, and that matters and concerns everyone. It is a current theme, because, as developed and evolved and by better social responses, a society can neither prevent nor remedy all problems associated with childhood and minors. This can never happen completely, however, it is a good utopia to think that yes, it is a utopia that should guide us, a pragmatic utopia, passes the paradox. It is also an emerging theme, because this characteristic is natural to you, in public social representation and even in the idea, in the perception of each one of us, translated into colloquial expressions. For example: “How did it happen? or, still, "How was nothing done? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And we all have to deal with the fact that, however good it is in this area, because of many problems that are avoided and repaired, what will always survive is what has not been resolved. The technicians, the techniques and the community involved in these matters have a work of great merit but for which almost always remains what has not been able to do completely well. However, it is politically sensitive in the current context, because it results in a restructuring of the services of the Social Security Institute, with possible impact on the response of the public-community services for the protection of children and young people. The four reasons I have mentioned are four good reasons for discussing the topic: its importance, its current status, its emergence and its political delicacy. It will not be up to me or the PSD Parliamentary Group to respond to the issues of the organisation of public services that are part of a public-Community response to the protection of children and young people at risk. It is up to the government to do so and to do it well. From 2011 to 2014 we began to have universal coverage, more partners involved, more assigned technical hours—these are the official data, just mentioned by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u22	We'll be back a few weeks in time. I heard, like other ladies. Members heard Mr. Justice Counsellor Armando Leandro, President of the National Commission, in this House, referring to operational difficulties in some CPCJs, in particular because of the restructuring of the Social Security Institute. He spoke to us — it is true! — in an emergency situation, I heard it, we all heard it. But I also heard it, and we all heard it, saying that there was a representative of social security in all CPCJs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u23	It was better if it didn't even exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u24	I have heard it, we have all heard it, saying that the CPCJs must be more and more instruments of the community, they must be more involved, because this will help to prevent, rather than to remedy. I have heard it, we all hear it, commend the set of possibilities for training technicians and community entities that Portugal 2020 will make available. I have heard it, we have all heard it, commended the CAFAPs and the extension of the network of these counselling and parental training centres. I heard it, we all heard it, commend the reinforcement of the early intervention system. I have heard it, we have all heard it, commend the Community aspect of the CPCJ's intervention, also reflected in the commitment signed last December by the Government, together with the summit bodies of the social institutions. I heard, we all heard, positive references to the behaviour of the Government and the Ministry of Social Security, in their relationship with the CPCJs, and these were the words of those who lead them at the national level.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u26	Returning to the Socialist Party, a party with a strong tradition of intervention and social innovation in Portugal — I have no problem in praising you — the PS generates a certain perplexity today, when we realize, in its interventions, some conceptual backwardness. You seem to us today too structuralist, too pre-third way, too distant from the value of the community and, I would say, more importantly, from the necessity of the community in all these processes. Let's go back a little bit more in time, specifically a decade. You are probably forgetting excellent examples, in which you have been programmed, such as those developed in these areas, for example by the working governments of Tony Blair in the United Kingdom. Let me remind you, with all the pleasure, just one example. in the United Kingdom, the Every Child Matters program : Change for Children in 2004 has already been there for more than 10 years, recommended the changes that highlight: integration and improvement of the quality of multidisciplinary universal services; more specialized help to promote opportunities, prevent problems and act early; development of a sense of shared responsibility among all services and partner institutions for child security; listening to children, young people and families when evaluating and planning services, as well as during delivery. In short, multidisciplinaryity, early intervention, sharing with the community and participation. Let's go back to today. To a dynamic conceptual framework, partner, participant and multidisciplinary — in my view, the desirable — the current PS seems to prefer the immediacy of the structure, prefers to discuss the size of the structure, the weight of the structure, the structure itself, does not leave the structure, closes in it. But even this one, which you are discussing, according to the data presented by the Minister, has been strengthened in the last four years! Mr. Minister just demonstrated. The subject, even if it is reduced to the structure, as you intend, is always relevant. There are problems that need to be solved, of course, and the PSD Parliamentary Group does not minimize them, quite the contrary, but does not associate itself with a discussion without a conceptual framework, because without a conceptual framework any intervention will always be diffuse and potentially inefficient. We hope and ask the PS to quickly recover the essence of their social thinking, because you are required for a modern, efficient and training social intervention, and you have given evidence of this over time. Today, no! They prefer case policy rather than cause; they seem to prefer raw and media concrete to desirable utopia; they prefer structural accountability to community dynamics. All this, it's a shame! However, we support you in the need to resolve urgent and emergency problems. We remain calm with the government today, and since 2011, and challenge the Socialist Party to be who it was and to discuss with us the basis of a clear, modern social thought and, once again, dynamic, interactionist, community and focused on prevention. Today, while never forgetting the delicateness of the situation, we are especially concerned with the positive, assertive and affirmative responses of the Government. of this PS, probably, there was little left; yesterday, in the discussion about birth, very little had remained. And you are able to do much better. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u27	The intervention of the PS follows. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three words characterize the action of the government and the majority, in such an important area as the protection of children: disorientation, irresponsibility and lack of sense of state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Disorientation, because 15 days ago, they said one thing and today they say another. Mr. Minister and Mr. José Manuel Canavarro came here to talk about CPCJ reports and these children need people, technicians who take care of them and who can protect them. Irresponsibility, because when the crisis is acute, when families are more destructed, it is when the government protects them, withdrawing technicians to be able to work. Mr. José Manuel Canavarro, speaking of a pre-third course, I would say that this is pre-civilization, that is really the barbarium, because the deprotection that these children are doing is totally unacceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Lack of a sense of state, because Portugal has subscribed to the Convention on the Rights of the Children and the proposals that the Government and the majority make are to hand over the protection and care of these children to private entities, and that we cannot accept! Even 15 days ago, the Socialist Party, in a draft resolution, made here four proposals, very simple and easily acceptable: to maintain the 153 technicians who were specifically hired for this work; to increase cooperation between ministries, because at this moment only the Ministry of Education fulfils its role in CPCJ ; to maintain funding to the authorities to maintain support for these children as well as to increase, where possible, the training mechanisms of technicians, in order to be able to work with these children. Well, these simple proposals, which have no additional costs to what is already planned, the PSD and the CDS have rejected them, and not only have they rejected them as in the speeches of the Members of the CDS and PSD, they have said: "Nothing is necessary, everything is done, these proposals that the Socialist Party is already making". This is except when, despite Mr.Amando Leandro's counsellor having come here to say that we are in an emergency situation and Mr.Dulce Rocha's attorney has come to say that it was necessary to increase training, because these children needed technicians with the highest training in order to be able to take care of them, the PSD, after having said all this, has now come, the horse mackerel, to present a draft resolution that has a fulminant boomerang effect for those who present it. I shall repeat to you three or four proposals which the PSD and the CDS have in this draft resolution: to value and improve the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Children. But what's the proposal? Give your care to the private. Second proposal: efficiency in the instrument of adoption. So it wasn't this majority that, two months ago, refused that the co-adoption process would be allowed to families in this country? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We have more and more institutionalized children and young people because you have banned and hindered the instrument of adoption! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u29	Thirdly, this draft resolution calls for more support and protection measures. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, but wasn't everything done? Were the PS proposals not unrealistic, in the opinion of the majority? Oh, my God! Fourthly, they say: « the National Commission should hire more technicians». So what did the government do? Did you fire the technicians who existed and now you ask the National Commission? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] A real joke is what the government and the majority have done in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By the way, I wanted to say that I thought it was only Mr. Secretary of State Augustine Brankinho who could not account, despite being a private manager of recognized merits. I have made a picture, which I have here, to say that the Secretary of State has actually failed in the Commission last week. I will give you the example of the CPCJ of my county, of the Great Sea. So what did we have? The social security technician had 14 hours and a backup technician had 40 hours more, which required 54 hours. Mr Secretary of State said: « We have increased 10 hours to the social security technician». It's true! But they took 40 hours, as indicated in this picture. What does that mean? It means there were 54 hours and now 24 hours. Since when is 24 greater than 54, Mr. Secretary of State? Oh, my God! Since when? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are also the accounts that the government makes to say that « we have the safes filled». It must probably be the effect of the suggestions and accounts made by Mr. Secretary of State Augustine Branquinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u30	It must be, it must be! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u31	I shall end, Madam President, by launching a challenge to the Government. Here, in the galleries, there are many protective commissions of children and young people at risk, which the Socialist Party uses to greet and honor their work. Meeting last week in the Great Navy, these committees made a set of proposals to the Government, which have been signed by all other committees in this country. Mr Minister, who is an assumed Christian, I would like to remind you of a passage from the Bible, which says there is more joy in Heaven for a sinner who repents than for 99 righteous people who do not need repentance,’ I ask: is the Minister available to go back to his work in this field and to support the protection committees of children and young people at risk? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u32	The CDS intervention is followed. Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a debate like this, I think it is essential to know exactly what we are talking about and to be aware of the effort and investment that has been made, over the past few years, in the qualification and improvement of responses in the area of primary and early intervention, which is the role of CPCJs within this network and how the system works. That is the only way we can talk about the seriousness that this debate deserves. The truth is, in all the answers, the means were reinforced and trained, made extensive investments... [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] [[Yes, sir!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u34	... and several responses were created that aim to make the signaling more comprehensive and the intervention more effective. This is all, despite the conjuncture and constraints we live in. To forget all this is, at least, irresponsible. In a tone of clarity, I begin by signaling. As you know, there is a network covering health centres, hospitals, security forces and schools, which have an obligation to signal all cases, so that the network can operate, intervention mechanisms are activated and children and young people can be protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u36	Since 2011 there has been a significant increase in signal cases, and it is correct to say that, in terms of signaling, the work is being done and there is an increasing assumption of responsibility on the part of the actors involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u37	Facts! They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u38	In other words, and to sum up, it is a fact that today there are more signs and that intervention is increasingly early.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u39	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u40	with regard to the intervention itself, today we have a wider network of response mechanisms that are not limited to CPCJs. These committees have, and that is how it must be, a subsidiary role in this process, in addition to a multidisciplinary nature. this network is part of local early intervention teams, which make an evaluation of direct intervention with children and families, and which today support more than 7,000 children, i.e. more than 5000 than those mentioned, since 2011. We also have the National System of Early Childhood Intervention, which acts preventively and rehabilitatively, in the context of education, health and social action, with children up to 6 years of age. In 2014, this response reached national coverage and today we have more 1500 children covered than in 2011, more agreements concluded and more half a million euros invested per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u41	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u42	Thirdly, the response of family support centres and parental counseling focused on their intervention within families was regulated and directed towards the territories where CPCJs have higher procedural volume, providing systematic, intensive and intentional follow-up based on an integrated and sustained look at the reality of families, having been recently strengthened in municipalities of the districts of Lisbon and Setúbal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u43	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u44	The Positive Parentality programme, already referred to here by the Minister, was also created for the prevention and training of vulnerable families. The number of places in day care centers shared by the State increased. Finally, in the context of the reception, which it is important to highlight, considering that, yesterday, and already mentioned here, the Minister presented the CASA Report (Annual Characterization Report on the Child and Youthcare Situation), it is clear that efforts are being made to increase coverage capacity for specialized care, directed to adolescents with serious problems and behaviour.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u46	Mr Minister, there is for the first time a national and integrated coverage of these responses that go far beyond the CPCJ. That is to say, sum up this debate to the CPCJs is, at least, reducing and not illuminating.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u48	So I would like to ask you two questions: what is the strengthening that is being done in each of these programmes and what is still needed to do? And what is still to be done to strengthen the multidisciplinary character of each of these answers? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u49	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Rita Rato for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The statements which Mr. Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security made here, and which we have now heard from the CDS, because the PSD has had a little more restraint in the statement that it is all right and the government has done more and more, are a deep disrespect for all CPCJ technicians who have warned about the seriousness of the situation. Anyone who does not want to hear the gravity of the situation is the one who lives with responsibility for violating fundamental rights in the lives of children in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u52	It's always the same! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u53	Mr. Minister and this Government do not immediately strengthen the number of CPCJ technicians responsible for violating fundamental rights of children in our country. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u54	Mr Minister, or hear what CPJs say or will be responsible for continuing dramatic situations that occur every day in the lives of thousands of families in our country. The Minister should be ashamed to say that he has 289 technicians. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] There are 275 CPCJs, there are thousands of children, 69 000 cases, and the Minister says you have 289 technicians? Oh, my God! That is not the one who wants to solve the problem, that is the one who wants to disresponsibility of the State in ensuring what is its obligation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u56	Mr President, there is no favour to the CPCJs in ensuring their working conditions. Mr. Minister is obliged to guarantee this,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u57	...because that's all that guarantees the protection of children's rights. And don't come here blackmailing you to say: «or stop working or are IPSS. Not at all! CPCJs have to work and you are required to ensure the appropriate number of technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u58	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u59	Nor is it serious, Mr Minister — I repeat, it is not serious — to come here to say that they are being allocated in accordance with the criteria. The criteria are 2000, when most CPCJs did not exist ; the criteria are deeply out of date—it was the President of the National Commission who took it up here in the Assembly of the Republic—and Mr Minister, in an aristocracy, is using these criteria to prevent the placement of the responsible technicians. Mr Minister, for sending tens — in social security, hundreds! — of requalification workers, who could not be replaced later because they were sent to requalification, replaced them and, in some cases, there are CPCJs who do not even have an indoor technician in our country. This is not who wants to solve the problem, that is who lives well with the violation of fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u61	We therefore believe that there is an urgent need for adequate social security technicians. from the PCP side, we will always continue—but always! — to defend the multidisciplinary composition of committees. Do not come with that little wonder that «what you want is only social security». It is not true, but social security has an irreplaceable role. Do not come here to confuse Ministry of Education with Ministry of Health! Only 53 committees have the five valences at national level, and that should embarrass you, Minister. That should embarrass him! Only 53 committees have the five valences in the small committee, and we understand that this is unacceptable, that is not who wants to solve the problem. There goes the time when the Minister of Solidarity was a Member of the CDS. When he was a member of the CDS, he asked the PS Government about the ongoing plan for the dismissal of 75 000 workers in the Public Administration, which the former PS government asked, in particular, of the dismissal that the PS was going to make when it was government, and which it carried out, how many of these would be CPCJ technicians. There goes the time, unfortunately, Mr Minister, because your time is already there but the time of life of children and families continues and the commitment of the CFP is not with your government, as it has not been with the previous government, it is with children and with your fundamental rights, Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u62	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u63	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members: In a debate like this, we can only be talking about children, their rights and their protection. Nothing else, nothing less. This is the debate. And it is about this debate that we must all take responsibility here and now. Do not tell us that the responsibilities are to share and are equal for all actors in the protection committees of children and young people at risk. That's not the case, Minister! The greater responsibility for fulfilling commitments to children and young people in this country is to safeguard social solidarity. Those who safeguard social solidarity have an obligation to enforce commitments to the Constitution, international commitments and commitments to children, i.e. commitments to the future. Your responsibility is a greater responsibility. Do not have any misconceptions in your mind, Mr Minister is not an IPSS minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u64	But it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u65	He is not even a minister of social affairs in the vague. Mr. Minister is a concrete minister, he is the Minister of Social Solidarity, with constitutional obligations, with a programme and therefore does not ease his responsibilities. The first question that we should put in this debate, if we want to be serious, is that we have protective committees which, in the first place, make prevention because, if we do not do prevention, we are constantly going after the damage. It is for prevention that it is necessary to define criteria and it is not worth it, Minister, to encompass these same criteria and to throw dust into the country's eyes, saying that social security is meeting the 2000 criteria and therefore has technicians with a few hours. Prevention and protection are timeless. At any time, children and young people are assaulted, raped and killed! So these committees must be committees of readiness, which they have been able to do, even with the resources parks they have at their disposal. The examples, Minister, are quite a few. Earlier today we saw the example of a technique of a protective committee that was sent to requalify, by chance, my district, in the Town Hall of Moita, and that is now volunteering there, having been very well accepted by the responsible. Sure! It is needed there, as all the technicians who went to requalification are needed on the ground: in the field of prevention, in the field of response, in the ground of signaling. It is this responsibility that Mr Minister has, because you are the first to be responsible for the degradation of the quality of the response for the protection of children, because this debate is precisely aimed at protecting them. The Minister is responsible and what he has to take on today is that it is not worth taking stock of criteria or more hours. What you have to assume is your responsibility for children and the country that these committees will operate according to the year in which we are, 2015. Minister, criteria are needed for 2015, criteria for more processes, criteria for more prevention. This means, then, that more technical and more means are needed on the ground. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u66	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: When, last month, we discussed in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic the need to strengthen the means for the protection committees of children and young people, the parties of the majority, the PSD and the CDS-PP, they came to say that it was all right, that there was no need for any reinforcement and that the current government had done a lot of work in this area. So everything was running at 1000 wonders! In fact, it was in this conviction that the opposition proposals aimed at ensuring the material and human conditions for the effective fulfilment of the responsibilities and the work of the child and youth protection committees had ended. Two weeks after the parties of the majority had ensured that it was all right, the same parties presented a recommendation to the Government on this matter. So, what do the majority parties want with this recommendation that, in March, there is no need to strengthen the means of these committees? They intend to recommend that the Government take measures to strengthen child support. It's a case to say, sirs. Members of the majority: you understand! Make your reading clear, define once and for all. That's not the way it is! In March it's all right and the opposition's proposals go down. at the beginning of April it is no longer so well and they present a recommendation to the Government. And today, by the way, everything's all right again. What are we at after all? Minister, this is not done to anyone! What the government is doing is not doing to anyone! This isn't for children! We know that if it were not the work and effort of the authorities, many of the CPKJs were no longer working because the government always looks aside to everything that is social. This government is not well associated with the social state. We already knew that, but, Minister, we are talking about children and it would be good for the government to take this into account. It's about kids! It's about the protection of the children we're talking about. at a time when we are, above all, leading with the results of government policies, at a time that powers and gives greater complexity to the socio-family context where children are inserted and therefore requires more effective preventive and repairing action, with the strengthening of means and with greater and better involvement by the government, after all, we have exactly the opposite. The Government imposes new criteria for the provision of representatives and support technicians in the protection committees for children and young people, and with this amendment of the rules on the allocation of technicians, which, in fact, substantially reduce the number of professionals, of course, the ability to respond to these committees is still much more compromised. Mr Minister, as you know, the loss of means of these committees led to a significant set of them taking a joint position. They require the replacement of the existing technical reinforcements before the deliberations of the Social Security Institute, but also require that the accounts be based on the total procedural volume and not only the new processes introduced. What I ask you, Minister, is what you have to tell us about this joint position of so many child and youth protection committees. What will the government respond to these committee requirements? Finally, Mr Minister, I have listened very carefully to you and I would also like to welcome you. Mr. Minister made a beautiful speech, he managed to paint pink a picture that is black and that, Minister, is not for everyone! I would therefore like to congratulate you on the number! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u68	You have the floor to answer, Mr Solidarity Minister, Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the honourable Members. Deputies, José Manuel Canavarro, João Paulo Pedrosa, Inês Teotónio Pereira, Rita Rato, Mariana Aiveca and José Luís Ferreira the questions they raised. I'll try to answer all of them. This is a debate on a very important, very serious issue and therefore the debate itself must also be serious, high and weighted. I think the Assembly of the Republic, but above all the country, has a lot to gain from it. One of the essential points that is, and well, in the diploma on the protection committees of children and young people at risk is effectively to ensure that these committees are multidisciplinary in their analysis of the processes, in their ability to intervene. This is precisely why for these committees are highlighted technicians in the area of social security, health, education, the area of municipalities, the area of security forces and even technicians indicated by social institutions that guarantee us, in fact, an intervention capacity in the community that is frankly important. This is provided for in the law and is provided for in the law. I know that CPCJ technicians, regardless of where they come from, are always very busy, very committed people, because they actually have a very difficult task and role. That is why it is even important that we be able to work on the training of these same technicians. We can work on the qualification of these same technicians, but we also do not forget that their turnover is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u70	What about the precariousness, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u71	This was, and very well, mentioned by Mr Armando Leandro, Judge, when he came to the Social Security and Labour Committee a long time ago and listed a number of concerns which he has, and which are all of them, but also listed a set of lines of action that we have come along and that we must continue to pursue the future. I wanted to address this area a little bit, trying, in particular, to answer some of the questions that have been raised. Regarding the first question put by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on the protocol with the municipalities, I would like to point out that in 2011 what was planned, from the point of view of the financial transfer of the Ministry of Social Security to the municipalities, in relation to this area, was an appropriation of EUR 5, 6 million. In 2015, this appropriation increased to EUR 6, 2 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u72	Listen! It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u73	That is, there is an increase of 8 % in the allocation of the municipalities themselves, which certainly calls into question the number that the Socialist Party presented here. When we looked at the total number of technicians that exist in CPCJs themselves, we know that in 2011 they were 4526 technicians and that at the end of 2014 they were 5165 technicians, which means that there was a reinforcement of these same technicians. But more importantly than that, in the case of social security technicians, who are often allocated few hours to these committees, there was indeed a reinforcement of this number of hours. There were 1287 hours more than what happened in 2011. It is important to note that the revision of the criteria was precisely in order to be able to give more protection very especially in the CPCJs that have more processes and that are often in the most critical and difficult areas. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to go further in this area, and that is why we want to establish protocols with IPSS so that we can strengthen CPCJs that have a greater procedural burden with more technical ones with a very important specialty that is the link to the community.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u74	I finally got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u75	It is also very important to remember, because, of course, we cannot let go into clear statements that were made here, that in the process of requalification that happened at the Institute of Social Security only 14 CPCJ technicians were affected by this very process. But what is essential to mention is that they were all replaced by people in the social area, in the field of psychology, which effectively guarantees the multidisciplinary nature of these same processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u77	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u78	And that point, for us, is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u79	They're trainees!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u80	But we want to go further, we are not content with everything that has happened and with the reinforcement we have already done. We want to be able to strengthen this response in two different areas and that is why we started working — it was not yesterday, but more than a year ago — with the European Commission for the allocation of Community funds that were traditionally not used in this area, so that we can have specific answers that allow us to work not only the qualification within the CPCJ itself...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u81	And when they're done with the funds?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u82	... but we can also have a set of subjects that have to do with preventive capacity, i.e. the ability to prevent, from the family's point of view, many of the problems that we have.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u83	And when are the funds finished, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u84	That is why we want to strengthen the CAFAP network and that is why we have come to strengthen what exists from the point of view of early intervention, particularly the SNIPI. Thus, we want to strengthen early intervention either by the family counseling of the CAFAPs or, on the other hand, by intervention through the SNIPI, for example, by having a reinforcement of 5000 families in SNIPI between 2012 and 2014, which came to have an answer that they did not have in the past and, indeed, it is said, for the first time we have a national response in this area. It is also very important to strengthen the own network of parental counselling centres so that we can accommodate more 3132 families in 13 new contracts to be concluded by the end of this month. But more: we also realize, from the point of view of this same training, that we need to find money to qualify it, and that is exactly why we have EUR 12, EUR 6 million in the Community framework. And here I wanted to announce that by June the applications to SNIPI and CAFAP will be open. But there is a second area, a second idea which is very important to us, which is that we can also structurally strengthen the CPCJ itself. And that is exactly why we asked Mr Maia Neto, who is a very well-known figure in this area, to lead a working group—which is already working over the past year and a half—to be able to look at the entire legislative building, from the point of view of the CPCJ and the child protection organization, which has already given us a very interesting set of conclusions, where it is, for example (to answer the question of the Socialist Party too), the issue of inter-municipal committees. Now, if we have today CPCJ with a procedural burden of 20 cases per year and others with 1000 cases per year, it is certain that, from the point of view of its ability to intervene, logic must be different. We must indeed have the capacity to strengthen these CPCJs which have a very high procedural burden. And, perhaps, it will make sense, in dialogue with municipalities and with local communities, there are inter-municipal commissions in some areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u86	That's just the process!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u87	But here too, a very important issue has been discussed and it has a direct link with this dimension, which is the dimension of reception, on which the question has also been raised here. And because the report was presented yesterday, I would like to highlight three points that seem very important to me. during 2014, there was the fact that more children and younger ones who returned to their families, who were self-sustained or found an adoption family than what had happened. in this sense, it is very important that the system itself has the ability to place younger people in their homes, in autonomy or in adoption families than those who enter because it is an effective sign that the bet on qualification results. It is very important to note that about 1/3 of these children and young people who found a permanent solution were less than one year in reception, which corresponds, exactly, to the fact that we were investing, first, in specialized reception structures, whose capacity increased from 53 vacancies in 2011 to 108 vacancies in 2014 and, above all, because of the capacity we had to strengthen the payment we made to children and youth homes. When we took office, the payment was €470 per child or young person, we increased it to €700 per child and youth, which means that there is a total annual investment of €38 million. But more importantly than that, we also realized that we want to take steps towards the future. That is exactly why we want to innovate and give national dimension to two pilot projects that allow us to have an information system that is integrated between the host institutions, CPCJs and the courts themselves. For each child and every young person, we have to move on to a single process, and for that, all the technicians involved have to be able to know the situation. More: we would very much like the CASA report (Annual Characterization Report on the Situation of Children and Youth) — it is a challenge I also leave to Parliament — as happened to the CPCJ report, it is becoming semi-annual rather than annual,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u88	Does any report say what the reality is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u89	... which, of course, gives us a stronger capacity for intervention in the field itself, gives us an enhanced capacity for intervention in the field itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u91	And this is exactly how we want to continue to work for the future, recognizing the difficulties, but also having the ability to perform a priority intervention, especially in the CPCJs, which have a great procedural burden, because often correspond to more difficult situations. That is why I do not understand the reluctance or even the firm opposition of some of this House to the hiring of more technicians through social institutions, which, above all, give a fundamental dimension to the community.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u92	Don't you understand? Oh, my God! It's because it's cheaper!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u93	It is exactly an interdisciplinary logic and we ensure that we have representatives from different areas that we can improve, which should certainly be the goal of the entire House. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the second round of the debate. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have signed up to speak in favour of being confined to regiment time, because today, by distraction from the Bureau, the time of the first speaker has not been controlled and then we do not feel the right to control the time of other speakers. Therefore, in this second round, it will be marked when the time of each intervention is at the limit. For an intervention, Mr. João Figueiredo, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u95	Madam President, Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State : It is never too much to enhance the role, mission and, above all, the work that the many Child and Youth Protection Commissions in our country carry out. This positive, sincere reference is made in full conviction of the importance they play with those who, for one reason or another, need the intervention of specialized technicians, either in the field of prevention or, of course, also in the area of repair. We make this reference with sensitivity, respect and also with concern
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u97	The importance of this mission must of course deserve the concern of all of us, just as it has deserved importance — and I have no doubt about it — and concern on the part of the Government. It is unfair, it is demagogic and it is completely false that only now the government is concerned or that we are facing a barbaric situation. This leads the debate to a field where concern and respect for this subject does not lead us anywhere. And don't count on us to go that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u99	The Government has taken a special look at the system of promotion and protection, with the awareness that the effective promotion of children's rights and the guarantee of their protection require preventive intervention, which has already been mentioned here, when it has advanced with the child's agenda. It is also important to remember that today there are two committees chaired by two prosecutors general of the Republic, being in the stage of issuing their first conclusions. For more than a year, the Government has begun negotiations with the European Union — therefore, it is not a problem or a concern for now — to adopt a programme for training families in a vulnerable situation. It is good to remember the contractualization that is intended to be done with IPSS under the Operational Programme for Social Inclusion and Employment. It is not a matter of particularising or privatizing committees. We are all few to carry this mission forward. Multidisciplinarity, with the compromise agreement signed last December, is an important step towards strengthening the mission, as well as rotation, which is commonly accepted that the turnover of technicians constituted as a added value in operationality. Mr Minister, yesterday was presented the Annual Report on the Situation of Children and Youth, the CASA report. Knowing the government's commitment to improve and qualify the responses, providing them to be included in an integrated information system with the CPCJs and the advice of the courts, I ask what Mr. Minister can make of the model that has been implemented. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u100	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u101	I now end by saying that we have the Government's will to ensure that the CASA report, like the reports of the CNPCJR (National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk ), is carried out with the semi-annual periodicity, thus allowing more knowledge and action in the context of various situations. Mr President, even to conclude, I wanted to share a feeling that is common to this Parliamentary Group, which is a thought of Louis Pasteur telling us: "When I see a child, she inspires me two feelings: tenderness for what it is and respect for what it may be". [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u102	Mr. Deputies, it was a nice quote. And Pasteur was responsible for overtime. For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just heard the PSD bench be concerned about the future of young people and these children. Yes, I tell you, Mr. João Figueiredo, that they are lining up the educational protective centers because they fail the protective measures. This is what the report of the Monitoring and Monitoring Committee for Young People at Risk tells us on page 11. Do you know what you're saying, Mr? It says that a significant percentage of these young people in educational shelters come from social security-dependent shelters. This is the result of your policy of lack of means to solve the problem of children and young people under the protection of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is crucial is to see how children are being treated, what is the ability to respond and what respect they deserve us, is to have the means to prevent them from falling, precisely, into educational protective centres and from there to our prisons.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u105	That is what we must do, Mr President. More: we should also look—it is a question that has not been seen as it should — for the issue of mental health. There is still no true mental health policy for these young people. Finally, Mr Minister, although we are always, as we have been, defenders that the area of protection and promotion of children and young people at risk and educational protection centres are separate areas, they have to be seen in an integrated manner in terms of response to each other. There is no reason, today, for the host institutions not to be subject to independent inspection and supervision, as are the educational protection centres. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u106	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u107	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: In an ideal world there should not be children and young people at risk, but that is not the world we live in. And from there there are the protective committees of children and young people, which were created in Portugal precisely to signal children and young people at risk and to, after this signaling, make their follow-up. Since this is the world we live in, it is not with bricks, it is not with screams that we help children, that we solve their problems or help protect them. And it is not with bricks and screams that assesses whether whoever has the protection and superintendence of this fight and that protection to children at risk, which is the government, is acting correctly, is investing or disinvesting in that protection, but rather through facts, by comparing what this government is doing and what was doing before. That is where we should really focus the debate, because we can only see if the needs of children are being properly cared for and whether this government is doing enough or is doing more or less than the previous government is doing. Therefore, very objectively, and because this debate should focus on the essential issue of what is being done, whether it is worse or better, I would like to leave some questions to the Minister. Compared to 2011, and with regard to the operational point of view, do legal representatives of social security in CPCG have more or less hours affected than they had in 2011?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u108	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u109	following the requalification, at national level, how many CPCJ members were sent for requalification and were or were not the properly completed vacancies opened? There was variation in the number of ongoing processes in CPCJs in 2013 and 2014? What is the ratio of the number of processes/techniques, in full time, which is currently assured? from the point of view of the organization and the improvement of the answers, I would also like to have an answer to the following questions: is it planned to strengthen technicians in the CPCJ? Is improving the training and qualification of technicians planned? If so, how and with what words? Is it expected that there will be a single process per child signaled so that what happens today, that when a child or family changes from district, the process does not follow it and it becomes non-existent in the new district in which it is located? How does the Government view the question here demanded by its President, Judge Armando Leandro, to give greater autonomy to the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Young People at Risk? Finally, in view of the accusations that have been made that techniques were removed that had 20 and 30 years of CPCJ connection, how does the government view the question of turnover and the alleged rupture and instability that this withdrawal caused? In conclusion, I think that, for this to be a serious debate, it is answering these questions that we can really assess whether, in fact, the government has improved or worsened the situation of the protection of children and young people at risk, whether or not the government is investing in this sector and whether everything that is being said is or not demagogy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u110	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : For this to be a serious debate it is necessary for the Minister to take the consequences of the measures he is taking.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u112	To be a serious debate, it would be necessary for the honourable Member to speak seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u113	And for this to be a serious debate it is necessary for PS, PSD and CDS to assume that the number of social security technicians in the committees should immediately be required or this government will always be responsible for the violation of fundamental rights. We remember when the Minister was a Member and accused the Socialist Party of saying that, in the absence of technicians, this would go there with local partnerships. We remember that, and it is precisely because we remember that since 2011 we have been presenting proposals in this House to strengthen the number of technicians, precisely because the problem has not started now. Of course, it is by sending technicians to requalify that this process has been aggravated. Mr. Minister is responsible for having sent for requalification to the President of a CPCJ who was accumulating work in another CPCJ. Therefore, it is also no novelty to say that the processes will be together. There are social security technicians who accompany several CPCJs, not only in full time in one CPCJs. Therefore, Minister, we understand that it is unacceptable to continue this path of deresponsibility of social security and to draw this responsibility for the IPSS. This calls into question a unique, national and uniform model for the protection of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u115	This calls into question a public system of child rights protection, and we will never be able to accept that solution. Mr Minister said nothing and that is a sign of his conviviality with the e-mail sent by the Social Security Council to representatives of social security in the committees, preventing him from participating in a meeting. What kind of democracy is yours, Mr Minister, which prevents representatives from participating through the ISS (Instituto de Seguridad Social) Board? What are you afraid of, Minister? Why are you afraid that people will discuss and talk about their problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u117	Whoever is afraid is because he fears the consequences of what he is doing and the reduction that is promoting social security technicians. We therefore believe, in fact, that at the conclusion of this debate it is again assumed that the government does not want to solve the problem, because a government that fires social security technicians cannot then come to say that the solution is that, with the money coming from the European Union, when it comes and if it comes, the IPSSs are getting involved in hiring technicians. This is no solution. Exactly because this is a serious debate and we are talking about the fundamental rights of children, that cannot be the solution. Only a public system, with adequate social security technicians, with multidisciplinary teams, can ensure full protection of children's rights. It is precisely because this is a serious matter and it is a matter of constitutional rights that the Government has an obligation to comply with what is in the law and to ensure proper technicians. That is exactly why we believe that the government is talking about the future of young people because it is already destroying their present. Anyone who talks about the future, invoking the future as tomorrow will come, is that government that is today destroying the conditions of operation of the CPCJs, and the CCP will never be able to follow these measures. Therefore, Mr President, I conclude by saying: to lay down the responsibilities for the IPSS, while at the same time disbursing technical and destroying public social security, will force the Government to assume the consequences of the violation of fundamental rights of children, jeopardizing their dignity and dignity in the lives of families. That is why this government must already be defeated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u118	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister has given us some answers here regarding the first round's interventions and has given us a series of statistical data to desperately prove that everything is okay in the CPCJ. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a very specific question: which is the President or President of the CPCJ who agrees with you? Do any protective committees agree with you? Workers and workers, some of whom are present here — even have the opportunity to ‘check’ their policies with some of them — have they told you that what you are doing is doing well? Don't! What we have heard is exactly the difficulties with which these committees are debating themselves. What we heard from the President of the National Commission was that the situation was emergency. What we heard was Judge Armando Leandro telling us that the requalification process had negative effects. Just see, Mr Minister, that he sent people to requalify on the basis of an ISS study, which said that people were really inadequate, that they didn't need to, and now he came here to tell us — just see! — that everyone is replaced. Well, then why did you send them away? It is because you have sent people with great experience and who are there, Mr Minister, with all due respect for whom you have ordered to put, perhaps they are trainees, with much less experience, and that then, of course, is reflected in the work that appears below, because the evil that is done in the youth protection committees then naturally has reflections in the educational protection centres and in other host institutions, because, in fact, the work first is that of prevention, and that is where the Minister has all the responsibility. So, Minister, what I can tell you is that you have waived your responsibilities, you are abandoning social security that you want to be public, solidarity and for everyone in a social security of the child! You have now come to tell us that it is the IPSS that they will hire, with money from the Community funds. Hire who? At what price? What quality? You don't want to pay the quality of work that our children and young people deserve. They are leaving the future and that is the charge we have to make to them today. The government has not brought any proposals, it has come to tell us that everything is okay, when the whole country is watching the fact that everything is wrong and that, with its government, every day it is going to get worse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u120	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « The guarantee of the protection rights and care necessary for the integral development of children is a constitutional imperative and a commitment undertaken by Portugal, with the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted on 8 June 1990 ». This is how the explanation of reasons for the PSD and CDS recommendation on child and family support measures begins. I would not say that we are facing a case of misleading advertising, but I say that this conversation does not dispense with careful reading of the prospectus. And the prospect, in this particular case, is the applause that the PSD and the CDS are doing what the government wants to do to children and young people at risk. Shame! This government has turned its back on the unemployed, especially the unemployed who do not have access to unemployment benefit. This government has turned its back on reformers and pensioners, especially those most penalized by the courts. This government has turned its back on the most disadvantaged, especially those who have no access to any social support. This government has turned its back on the patients and, in general, it has turned its back on the families and now the government is turning its back on the children. In other words, children do not escape the anger of the government against everything that is social. Nor do children escape this position of misery from a government that does no more than de-responsibility of their duties, deresponsibility of their greatest task, which is to guarantee the social functions of the State. This does not matter to this government. For the government, people don't count, families don't deserve any attention and now it's the turn of children who, for the government, don't care about anything either. What matters to this government is to lower the taxes of large companies, particularly at IRC, which fell from 25 % to 21 %, and little more. Everything else is side-looking. But the government cannot continue to destroy the social protection system, the government cannot continue to destroy the social state, because it needs more respect for people and more respect for children, and that is why, in our view, this government has long been going for requalification. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u122	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u123	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank you for your comments. Members João Figueiredo, Isabel Oneto, Artur Rêgo, Rita Rato, Mariana Aiveca and José Luís Ferreira. Let me refer to seven notes at this second stage of the debate. The first question I would like to raise has to do with the seriousness of the debate. It is not worth putting on false, fallacious arguments here; it is not worth coming up with roles with small jokes, because this matter is too serious. We're talking about children and young people in danger, which is too serious. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Even in this note, I leave a special greeting to the more than 5,000 people who, in our country, every day, with their diverse competences, help to treat, protect, solve many problems for children and young people at risk. It is also for CPCJ technicians that we should have a word of greeting and gratitude for the work they do, whether as professionals or as volunteers. And in this debate this is also a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u126	The second note has to do with the model. This is what we should discuss: to realize whether the model we have today is what best responds to the needs that are on the ground or whether this model needs to be here and further adjusted, needs to be reinforced, needs to be improved. It was in this sense that the Government called for a set of technicians from various backgrounds — education, health, justice — independent personalities, coordinated by two deputy general prosecutors and, in particular, in this area of protection for children and young people in danger by Procurator Maia Neto, to help us reflect on the system, to verify what is good and not worth moving and what is needed in the system. And this work has come to an end. The Government and Parliament will now be called upon to contribute, to legislation on what new model we want to have, a model closer to children and young people in danger. And let me highlight here two or three fundamental ideas of the report that has been presented to us. The first question has to do with the National Commission itself. It has to see its work more strengthened and, above all, have more administrative autonomy. That is a challenge, a challenge to which we want to respond. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] at the level of the CPCJs that are on the ground, the conclusions of the report point to the need to strengthen its work in the areas of multidisciplinary, which is an important issue and, above all, look at what are the CPCJs, which have a greater number of processes and these also strengthen the human resources that they should be restricted and in other cases study other forms of organization in the territory, which can even pass through inter-municipal committees, which would allow us to have more effective and efficient action on the ground and reach as many young people as possible. But it also says the report that we have been present that we must take advantage of something that exists today in the territory, which is an important social network and that it is important to call for the protection of young people and children in danger. And, in that sense, that's what's going to happen. The Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security will contract, sign cooperation agreements with institutions of social solidarity that, in those places where it becomes most necessary, can give important help in this matter. This means involving proximity institutions. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa said that we were talking about private institutions, wanting to put a label there, the anathema that these institutions are private. Mr. Member, it is wrong for you to be so wrong: they are private,... [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Pedrosa.]] ...that's the designation, they have no profit. They are institutions that provide and give the best of themselves to society, with thousands and thousands of volunteers, with technicians who work in their daily lives in the most diverse valences. With all sincerity and respect, I am sorry to see the PS back in this matter—and soon the PS, which even has a positive history in this area of contractualization! Now seeing the PS on this drift, going back, I think it's not a good sign. But we have taken this step back and we will try to raise awareness of the importance of social and solidarity institutions in the territory as close institutions. The third note has to do with financing, which involves important issues. There is no reduction in funding. Mr Minister has spoken recently about the transfers of funds to the authorities. over the past four years, we have increased from EUR 5, EUR 6 million to EUR 6, EUR 2 million. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The transfers from the State budget to the authorities in this area were strengthened by 8 %. And we have the new Community framework at our door. And, in the new Community framework, where for the first time there is an operational programme dedicated to social inclusion, there are plans for clearly identified axes of action and funds for the training and qualification of CPCJ technicians, for early intervention, for positive parenthood, among other measures. And as also mentioned here by Mr Minister, in a few weeks already in June, they will open the nomination notices that will allow many institutions to apply and obtain funding for their projects. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] It is not the State to resign from its responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u127	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u128	It is the state to be a partner state, it is the state to realize what is best in the territory and to take advantage of these same institutions in its proximity policies. The fourth note has to do with human resources. And here let me strengthen the two fundamental words: multidisciplinaryity and rotation. What is important to mention and retain in this debate is that, four years ago, there were 4526 people working in the CPCJ and today, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there are 5165 people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u129	And what are social security?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u130	The question of requalification was also raised here again. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us be serious: in the requalification process that the Social Security Institute has developed, only 14 people were involved in the CPCJ area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u131	Just? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u132	Let's be serious: only 14 people were involved, and these people were already replaced. The fifth note is about the criteria. It may agree or disagree with the criteria, but what we cannot say is that we impose the criteria on whoever it is. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The criteria in force today are those which have been consensualized between the Social Security Institute and the National Commission. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] This is the fundamental question that needs to be emphasized here on the criteria: no one has imposed criteria on anyone, we have consensualized criteria with the National Commission. On some issues which have been raised to me, even with regard to the CASA report which was submitted yesterday, let me highlight four notes from this report. The first note is about specialized reception, to say that in recent years it has increased from 53 to 108 vacancies, i.e. more than doubled. Participation in LIJ ( Children's and Youth's Homes ) has increased from €470 to €700, i.e. €230 to more for each of the children and young people involved in these answers. I wanted to say something that also seems fundamental to me. It's because teachers have been put on a full-time basis in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u133	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u134	... that today we can say that school failure in these children, between 10 and 11 years of age, has decreased 6 % and, between 12 and 14 years of age, has decreased 17 %. These are the results, which are in sight, of the policies that are being followed. One last note, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all want to substantially improve the situation of children and young people at risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u135	You want to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u136	I will finish, Mr. President. We want to have a more agile, faster and more effective global system. And with everyone: with social security, with health, with education, with security forces, with municipalities, with local communities, with private institutions of social solidarity. And we want to have this system, all of us, for children and young people in danger, for Portugal in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u137	Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u138	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u139	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u140	Mr President, the Minister has repeatedly said that it has increased the number of hours of social security technicians affected by CPCJs. Now, I would like to ask the Bureau to have a document circulated which shows, through one account, that the Minister is wrong. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u141	Please send the document to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u142	It's that increasing 10 hours and decreasing 40 is reducing the number of hours. In fact, 24 is always less than 54. This document demonstrates Mr. Minister's fallacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u143	The document will be distributed, Mr. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the closing stage of the debate. To speak, Mr. Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u144	Mr President, to whom I would like to congratulate because I did not have a chance to do so recently, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is very important. And this debate must indeed be serious and high, because, if we do not do so, what we are questioning is actually the importance that all of us, as political decision-makers, should objectively give to something like this. The protection of children and young people is an essential value of any society, especially of a society such as Portuguese society, which is a full member of the European Union, of a civilizational space where the protection of our present but, above all, the building of our future is an essential value. And that is exactly why, for us, it is so important to reaffirm here, in a serene way, some data on what has happened and the reinforcement that has happened in recent years at the Child and Youth Protection Committees. I am going back to say it here because it seems to me that some benches, especially the bench that marked this debate, are a bit touched by a lack of memory. The truth is that, from the point of view of the number of technicians in the CPCJ, there is a reinforcement compared to 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u145	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u146	And, more than that, it is true that the number of hours in which technicians, especially social security, are working in the processes, are accompanying families and children have quite significant reinforcement compared to 2011 : more 1287 hours than in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u147	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u148	But while there is this reinforcement, we know that we need to go further. And when we propose measures to go further, where is the PS? It is against the one who is its historical heritage, that of being able to look, from the point of view of the contractualization of social service, to the social institutions which, in Portugal, are part of our social model, of our social building, and instead, raises a suspicion about social institutions that we clearly have to denounce here. I am sorry that the Socialist Party has broken this consensus that has always existed in Portugal in view of the need to contractualize social response. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be more € 116 000 per year, through social institutions, contractual with social institutions, so that we can respond to new problems, but above all, so that we can have a more multidisciplinary response within the CPCJ itself. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] And that is an essential point. The involvement of IPSS in CPKJ ensures a greater connection to the community, ensures a greater effective knowledge of communities. And this is something that is added to those who are for social security, to those who are for education, to those who are for health, to those who are for municipalities, or to those who are representing the forces of authority. Indeed, we must continue to work for the future so that we can continue to build a building that is more capable of responding to the difficulties. And that is exactly why the Government, recognizing that there are very capable people in this area, people who have enormous knowledge, suggested and asked someone who knows this system as few, which is Mr.Prosecutor Maia Neto, who could help us find the new legal definition of the CPCJ system, who could help us identify the positive points but also the points of greatest difficulty. For this reason, a report with very important lines has been submitted to the Government, among which, curiously—and not the Government who says so—is the largest participation by the communities, which must be ensured through the IPSS. There is another dimension that is fundamental to us because we always know how to be a winning bet dimension, which is prevention, that of having more preventive structures, more structures that can work with families. And that is exactly why the strengthening of the CAFAP network (Family Support and Parental Counselling Centres), but also the strengthening of early intervention are, for us, fundamental. But, curiously, when the Government announces in this House that it will have 12, 6 million euros of Community money to be able to open more answers, so that we can work more effectively on this response capacity, the reaction of the Socialist Party is to be against, systematically against, is unfortunately to be on the side of the problem and not on the side of the solution, as was the obligation of a party with so many responsibilities in Portugal. Finally, Mr President, allow me to say the following : we also know that a fundamental area for us to work is that of qualification, that of the training of the technicians we have in the CPCJ. Fortunately, Portugal can count on an army of very capable people, very worthy, who often gives the best of itself in structures that are always very difficult. Obviously, the government must recognize the very important role of these people. But we can have more qualifications and training will certainly be fundamental so that these people can continue to do even more. All these people are represented in a, which, in fact, knows the system and often represents this spirit of kindness, this spirit of delivery: Judge Counselor Armando Leandro. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u149	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u150	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u151	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u152	Mr President, I call on the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, within the meaning of the Bureau to proceed with the Minister that the report on the Children's Agenda, which the CFP has already asked him for three years (which he has never received any reply) and which has been invoked several times today, can be distributed to parliamentary groups, because using arguments we do not know is at least a little serious. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u153	The Bureau will arrange for this to happen, Mrs Deputies. For the closing intervention, on behalf of the party that requested this legislative agenda, the Socialist Party, has the floor to Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u154	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: Mr Minister, you can come here to talk about what you want, you can continue to provide us with your creative process, you can continue to say that you have increased the number of hours of committee technicians — which is not true! — and you may even want to come here to talk about the Socialist Party, but that is not why the government was called here. The Government has been called here to account for the fact that it has removed technicians from the committees for the protection of children and young people and, on that, the Minister and the Secretary of State have not been able to tell us anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More importantly, Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State: when the debate is not going on with you, you come to say that the debate is not serious, but the question we put to you, the questions that the opposition has asked you are very serious. What is at stake is the withdrawal of social security strengthening technicians: of the 153 who were placed there by competition, today there are 34 and, on that, not a word! Nothing! Just silence. The Minister is again playing the role he has already lived for, which is that of running forward without telling us anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I have with me the circulation of the Social Security Institute, which relates, as far as reinforcement technicians are concerned, that a technician should be responsible for 300 to 500 cases and two technicians should have up to 700 cases. Therefore, it is not good to tell you that there are no defined criteria, because they were imposed by social security! [[Pause.]] Mr President, I ask you not to tell me this time. Only when you pay attention to me is that I would like to continue my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u155	Mr. Minister is always attentive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u156	Well done, Mr. President. Minister, the protection of children and young people is compromised. You have aggravated the living conditions of the Portuguese. There is more poverty, there are more complicated processes, complicated situations and less intervention capacity and what you have to tell us is a hand full of nothing, because the concrete questions were unable to give us answers. Mr Minister, we want answers and we will ask you the questions in writing. And now we reiterate the request that has just been made to him: distribute to us today, here, the Agenda of the Child, that you have been talking about three years ago! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, I would like to make one final point: it is very wrong for you to apologize to Judge Armando Leandro. No one will excuse you, neither the CPCJ technicians nor all those who, in Portugal and outside Portugal, see Mr. Justice Counsellor Armando Leandro as a reference. Judge Armando Leandro was very clear when he came to the Social Security and Labour Committee and said that the situation in the CPCJ is urgent and that until the human resources problem is resolved he will tend to worsen. Mr Minister, it is very wrong for you to apologize to Mr. Juiz Armando Leandro. Judge Armando Leandro is a reference to all of us and those who work in the protection and protection of children's rights. Unfortunately, Minister, I have to tell you that you were four years old and did not take that time to learn from Dr. Armando Leandro's example and teachings. He did not have the ability or humility to learn, but it is very wrong for him to come here to apologize in this way. We want answers, we want better protection for children, because the children, Mr Minister and Mr Secretary of State, are not the future, are the present, and that is why you have to intervene, giving working conditions to the protection committees. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u157	We therefore conclude this point on our agenda. We are going to discuss, in general, the proposals of lein.o 294 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of the Economists, approved by Decree-Law No 174 / 98 of 27 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 301 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and 302 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. To submit the bills, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is known by this House, the Government has been promoting one of the biggest legislative reforms in the services sector in Portugal, driven by the need to implement the Services Directive sector, which has resulted in the change of more than 100 diplomas. This directive aims to facilitate the exercise of the fundamental economic freedoms of the establishment and freedom to provide services in the European Union and, in itself, is a fundamental challenge for the success of the single market, with obvious benefits also for Portugal and for the internationalisation of the Portuguese services sector. Within the service sector, it is of particular relevance, as is known, the exercise of professions organized in Professional Orders and, by continuing this work, the Executive presents today three bills that simplify access to economic activities in our country, i.e. the new statutes of the Order of Economists, the new statutes of the Order of Engineers and those of the Order of Technical Engineers. These new statutes have two very clear objectives. First, they guarantee the elimination of unjustified or disproportionate requirements that condition access to professional activities in accordance with the Services Directive. Secondly, they improve the conditions for the mobility of professionals within and outside the country, in accordance with the European directives on the free movement of professionals, including the Qualifications Directive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in this context, to reinforce six important points of these new statutes. First: all professional colleges and professional specialties are now provided for in their own statutes, and they are therefore given legal and not only regulatory relevance. Secondly, reference is made to the terms of the right to provide services by professionals and other Member States of the European Union. Thirdly, reference is made to the applicability of the Qualifications Directive and the Services Directive under the three Professional Orders concerned. Fourth: the rules of professional training and their duration are now laid down in the statutes themselves, and they are therefore given legal and not only regulatory relevance. Fifth: the rules on disciplinary responsibility are densified. Sixth and lastly, new provisions are introduced concerning the application of the single electronic service counter, the mandatory provision of information on the Internet and administrative cooperation with the authorities of other Member States of the European Union and with the European Commission, especially within the framework of the single market information system. Although these aspects have entailed profound statutory changes, the Government has done so bearing in mind two essential concerns, which in our view reflect the public interest of the professions concerned. The first concern was to ensure that the legal solutions contained in these statutes are, as far as possible, harmonized at the level of the 18 Orders covered by this reform. This was ensured through its discussion, made in a cross-sectional and in-depth manner, in the inter-regular working group specifically constituted for this purpose. The second concern was to ensure that, bearing in mind the applicable legal limits, in particular those of the framework law and European law, the legal solutions contained in these statutes deserve the agreement of the Orders and the professionals they represent. This was ensured through the involvement of the Orders concerned, not only in the preparation of the initial draft, but throughout the legislative procedure within the Government, in numerous meetings and contacts between the Government and their respective Orders. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this diploma enshrines the strengthening of matters which constitute a priority for this Government — the simplification of access to and the pursuit of economic activities, the elimination of unjustified barriers. We therefore hope that the proposed laws that are now under discussion deserve the reception of this House, because we consider it important to adopt a more simplified legislative framework, more friendly to the economic agent, with potential generator of benefits also for users, users and customers of the services in question. Finally, Portugal is, above all, an opportunity to increase national exports of services to other Member States, to contribute to the promotion of an environment more conducive to business and, consequently, to contribute to the growth of the economy and job creation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u159	To ask the Secretary of State for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u160	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs, I would like to raise a very specific question to Mr Under-Secretary of State, which relates to the involvement and participation of the Professional Orders in this legislative process, which Mr Under-Secretary of State referred to in the inter-regular working group and in the work that was done over the time to present these bills. The question that I put to you relates to the opinion of the respective Orders on the proposals for laws relating to the statutes which concern them. The preliminary drafts of these bills are almost all the same: they have four paragraphs and in no case are said to have been heard in their Order and in the database of the legislative procedure of the House there is no opinion of the Orders involved in their discussions. Next we will have a debate on the Order of Architects and in the preamble to the proposal it is said that the Order of Architects has been heard. Question: Is there any report, some document, some opinion that the Assembly of the Republic can obtain from the Government? In addition, in compliance with the law, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Constitution of the Republic, you must instruct the legislative procedures with the opinions and technical documents necessary for discussion, and this is not happening. So in this sensitive area, with this sensitivity, it would be even more necessary and expected that the Government should present the report, the opinion of the Professional Orders, which did not happen. Is there any reason for this, Mr. Secretary of State? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u161	To reply, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u162	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, what I said was that these new statutes are the result of the joint work done between the Ministry of Economics, the Order of Economists, the Order of Engineers and the Order of Technical Engineers, which was a timeless work, numerous meetings and numerous interaction. Therefore, it was not made a distant and cold look, rather. What happened is that the Order of the Economists, specifically, had numerous meetings in the Ministry of Economics. Therefore, an agreement was made in conjunction with the Professional Orders, not against the Professional Orders. It is up to the Government to make the framework under European legislation and framework law, but also to work with the various orders and with the professionals. As such, I do not understand the question about the opinion that has been requested. A collective and joint work was done by the Ministry of Economics. I can tell you that, for example, the Order of the Economists was just the first to start working with Prof. Álvaro Santos Pereira. In fact, I myself, as a member of the Order of the Economists before I was in the government, can say that the Order spoke at that time about the amendments that were made and the communication it had with the Government. So, I don't understand if there was any problem with the opinions. The relationship was made and a joint work was done between the interregular group and the various orders.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u163	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u164	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr. Members : We are discussing today in this Chamber the bill No. 294 / XII ( 4. ( a ), the purpose of which is to amend the Statute of the Order of the Economists and to adapt it to the arrangements laid down in Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January. According to Law No. 2 / 2013, each professional public association can represent more than one profession. in this sense, the Order of the Economists integrates a set of training professionals in the area of economic sciences. To all these professionals, fundamental to the recovery of the country's economy, I would like, from now on, on my own behalf and on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to welcome the commitment and professionalism shown in difficult times. I am convinced that these professionals will have a great challenge, a key role, in the Community framework which begins, Portugal 2020, whose commitment is to stimulate competitiveness, internationalisation of our companies and job creation. It is essential that the legal framework for the Order of Economists be properly established. The draft law states that this review essentially reflects the maintenance of existing statutory provisions with the amendments resulting from the application of Law No 2 / 2013. A framework was made here by the Secretary of State concerning the amendments which have been made. however, I will mention some amendments: there are regional delegations throughout the country—in the North, in the Algarve, in the Centre, in the Alentejo, in Madeira and in the Azores ; the General Assembly is replaced by the representative assembly ; the Board of Auditors is replaced by the Fiscal Board ; the Vocational Discipline Committee is replaced by the Supervisory Board and Discipline ; the colleges of speciality are replaced by the Councils ; already the Board of Order, as chairman of the board, now appears on the list of national bodies. In addition, new matters are also introduced, such as the right of establishment and the free movement of services, on the basis of the Community Directive. I would also like to highlight Article 103. that of the proposed law on information on the Internet, establishing that the Order of Economists should provide some information to the general public through its electronic website on the Internet. In conclusion, I would like to say that the National Data Protection Commission has been heard, as referred to in the proposal for a law, and that we reserve for the discussion in the field of speciality the hearing of the Order of the Economists and with certainty that possible changes made by appropriate ones may eventually be considered. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u165	Mr António Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The present proposals for legislation under consideration are of the greatest importance for the lives of hundreds of thousands of professionals, more than 300 members of 18 orders are involved in this process. This in the national area, not to mention the millions of citizens of the Community area, which are also covered by these legislative amendments. The proposed laws submitted by the Government relating to the statutes of professional public associations, the so-called 'professional orders', comply with their statutory rules with a new legal regime. in it are defined rules on the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and on the access and exercise of professions regulated by professional public associations, in particular on freedom to provide services, freedom of establishment, professional internships, professional societies, incompatibilities and impediments regimes, advertising, as well as the widespread availability of relevant information on professionals and their respective societies regulated by public associations. In short, the change of statutory rules aims, inter alia, to facilitate access to regulated professions. After several warnings from political parties and professional associations, almost two years after the deadline established in 2013, the government silence was finally broken and the new legal regime of creation resulting from the impositions of the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Government of Portugal with the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund in May 2011 was presented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Professional orders are professional associations of public law and recognized autonomy by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, created in order to promote self-regulation and administrative decentralization, respecting the principles of harmonisation and transparency. Professional orders are created with a view to defending and safeguarding the public interest and the fundamental rights of citizens and, on the other hand, with a view to self-regulation of professions whose exercise requires technical independence. In addition, they constitute an expression of autonomous administration of the State, being endowed with an internal organization based on respect for the rights of its members and on the democratic formation of its organs. Through the recent diploma approved by Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, the legislator established the general legal regime applicable to all professional public associations, considering the constitutional grounds of orders. These institutions aim to improve the functioning of the regulated professions sector. They are currently competent authorities in each sector to facilitate the exercise of the fundamental freedoms of establishment and freedom to provide services while ensuring greater transparency and information to consumers and beneficiaries of services, providing them with a wider, more diversified and higher quality offer. Given the high importance of these initiatives, the Socialist Party does not fail to express its protest because of this unacceptable delay that will affect hundreds of citizens professionally. The protest makes more sense because the recent processing of these legislative initiatives is being done from night to day with assessments we consider'supersonic'. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: There is no one soon! Thousands of professionals are dependent on good or bad legislative changes that the House is producing. We have the ultimate responsibility to facilitate and not complicate access to regulated professions. The Socialist Party calls on the majority to calm down the pace of legislative appreciation and to promote quietly appreciation in the specialty of these initiatives. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the present case of the assessment of Bill No 301 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) relating to the Order of Engineers, as rapporteur, I would like to express the absence of any opinion of the same Order by the Government. I am here to remedy the claim that the Orders would have been consulted. by the documents that were provided to us, this absence came to be verified. The amendments to the Staff Regulations of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June, are replaced by the wording set out in Annex I to this Law and are an integral part thereof, in particular for the purposes of registration, determination of the period of internship and assignment of professional qualifications. In addition, it safeguards the regulations approved under the Staff Regulations of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June, which do not contravene the provisions of Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January. In short, the Socialist Party generally agrees with the proposed proposal, but hopes that, in the specialty, the contributions and suggestions given by the Order of Engineers can improve this proposal of statutes, paying attention to the specificities of the engineering profession, which has both prestigious internationally the Country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No. 302 / XII ( 4. ( a ) is adapted to the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September 2013 in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, the revision of which basically reflects the maintenance of existing statutory provisions with the amendments resulting from that Act. The existence of regulations approved under the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September, as amended by Law No 47 / 2011 of 27 June, which do not contravene the provisions of Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, and the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, as set out in Annex I to this Law, and which remain in force until the publication of new Regulations. Finally, it is republished in Annex II to this Act, which forms an integral part of Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September with the current wording. The Socialist Party considers that this bill meets the conditions for its approval, although the contributions of the Order of Technical Engineers may introduce improvements in its final drafting, given the relevant role that has been given to Portuguese engineering. Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on Bill No 294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). In accordance with Article 53. the Act No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, from this proposal for a law, shall be adapted to the Statute of the Order of the Economists, approved by Decree-Law No 174 / 98 of 27 June, to the regime provided for in Law No 2 / 2013, the revision of which basically reflects the maintenance of existing statutory provisions with the changes resulting from the application of its law. However, the Socialist Party, in the light of the reservations raised by the Data Protection Commission, in particular the fact that there is no specific standard aimed at their adequacy to the general system of protection of personal data and, taking into account the provisions of Articles 19. o, 91. o, paragraph 3, and 93. that of the diploma in appreciation, raise some questions that urgently need to be clarified. Verified gaps can be healed at the site of speciality. The Socialist Party hopes to see the above shortcomings in the final draft in order to be able to vote in favour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u167	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u168	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr. Members : We have heard Mr António Cardoso mention, in his speech, that there is no one who quickly and well. however, it began by saying that the government had delayed to submit these bills and ended by saying that, at the moment, it is in a hurry. What are we staying on? Was the government slow or was it fast? Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say to you that these proposals for the status of the three Orders we are discussing here today — and I would like to congratulate the representatives of the Orders who are present in the galleries to attend this debate — have been prepared in a balanced way, reflected, in practice, on the orders for which we are discussing. In other words, although formally—and it was mentioned here by the Portuguese Communist Party and the Socialist Party—there is no opinion accompanying them, the truth is that all this work has been carried out in close liaison and in close dialogue with the representatives of the three Orders whose statutes we have discussed here. Therefore, in addition to this consensus and this work, which obviously needs to be improved and refined in the field of expertise—that is why these proposals are presented here—it is important to reflect that there has been a whole process of coherence, particularly through inter-regular work, and to say that the proposals discussed here have had a follow-up work at the level of various ministries to ensure that there is harmonisation and coherence in the way in which adaptation has been done either to the service directive or to the qualifications directive, and that is very relevant to us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u169	On the other hand, this process of adapting the statutes of orders derives from an obligation already coming from the Memorandum of Understanding, so it is not at all a foreign process, in particular, to the Socialist Party. in substance, it is also a good example of what has been done by this government's thorough and thoughtful work to make a set of reforms that help the Portuguese economy, basically, the conditions that we have, in particular, at the level of the provision of services that allow for a set of advantages, in particular new opportunities, for professionals to be economists, be engineers, be technical engineers, have a wider market to be able to practice their professions. At the bottom, what did we get out of here? That this adaptation of the statutes allows us to create a greater set of opportunities in view of what we had before, generate more employment opportunities, generate a mechanism of greater mobility for these professionals, and that also means producing greater wealth. Mr Secretary of State, this process which will be culminated in the Assembly of the Republic symbolizes a series of changes, adaptations and a process of reforms which this Government has carried out and which, from our point of view, is very important in order to have a more open and competitive economy in the future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u170	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I welcome you. State Secretaries and representatives of the Professional Orders whose statutes we are debating here today. There are three of the dozens of diplomas who have arrived a little in a hurry to this House, one and a half in the regulation of professions, another ten in the various regulations of services. And they came in a hurry because the government is playing the troika's box and wants to clear all these proposals before the end of the term of office. He did not do so in the 90 days he had to regulate and, therefore, he now invades the Assembly of the Republic with these tens of diplomas. There was slowness to bring them to the Assembly, which requires that there is now too much hurry to deal with these matters. We will leave this debate to the specialty, even because, as the diplomas have not been accompanied by the history of the debate the Government has had with the Orders, we do not have the capacity at this time to have a very thorough analysis of the matters we are discussing. Who knows whether these diplomas are good for you or not are the Orders and are the professionals to whom the Orders concern. That is why it was important that, regardless of the work being done upstream with the Orders — and we do not doubt that it has been done — this history would have arrived here. This is because, when we evaluate a diploma, we want to understand what is the view of its order on that diploma, what proposals have been received and what proposals have not been accepted, what are the risks underlying the new amendments to the statutes... Now, this evaluation cannot be done here, in the House, first because the process is being speeded up by giving little time to hear, ask and analyze contributions, second because this history has not been made, and it was important that it should be done and that it should come to the House with the various opinions. In general terms and what these proposals have translated, and because we are already examining several, we are concerned about two issues, in particular. The first concerns the liberalisation of professions. Not always, or rarely, this translates into protection of professionals. To what extent, when liberalizing, are we creating a more flexible and easy market for all of us to be able to work or, on the contrary, are we protecting those who already work, not creating the conditions or making it difficult to perform their functions under all the conditions they need? Secondly, we are concerned, across these proposals, about the consecration of the stages, and this has been transversal. We have nothing against professional internships or internships linked to the orders when someone finishes a course and enters his career, but in general we see a accumulation of internships — curricular internships, professional internships, internships for order, internships for winning curriculum... They are increasingly stages, which means that more and more people are working with less and less rights and I think that today we can conclude, with some certainty and actual analysis, that we have more and less internships and jobs. Therefore, we warn: be careful with the consecration of the stages! The stages in too much are exploitation of work without rights! We are not saying that everyone is like this, but be careful with the consecration of the internships, because they in other areas, as we have been discussing, serve to mask statistics and to exploit workers who otherwise deserve, and should have, a job to which a wage and social rights correspond. These are the comments we have to make right now. We call on the Government to send us the history of the discussions and negotiations with the Orders so that we can make a more thorough analysis in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u172	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u173	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economics, Mrs and Mrs. Members: My intervention will focus on Bill No 302 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), which stems from the entry into force of the law establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and functioning of professional public associations and which thus determines the need for a review of the status of professional associations already established. It is therefore imperative to adapt the statutes of the already existing professional public associations to the regime established by Law No. 2 / 2013, and this diploma in particular maintains, in its essence, the existing statutory provisions, with the amendments resulting from the application of the Law. However, it is also important to recall the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 17 May 2011, in which the Government has made a number of commitments, in particular with regard to professional qualifications and regulated professions. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u174	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the truth is also that the creation of a public law association of technical engineers has responded to the need for a unitary representation of the profession, condition of its valorization and the realization of the public interest underlying the nature of the collective person, as well as to the satisfaction of specific needs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u175	Therefore, the present adequacy of the Staff Regulations of Technical Engineers, which, as I said, translates, essentially, the maintenance of the statutory provisions, has complied with the regulations already envisaged and with the particular economic and social importance which covers the profession of technical engineer and how its various branches of expertise intervene in civil society, thus seeking to comply with the definition and implementation of a set of rules that constitute the essential framework of the access and exercise of the areas of activity and knowledge understood in the profession. The PSD Parliamentary Group is convinced that today's legislation provides an opportunity to adjust, update and, why not say, to improve the performance of these professionals, contributing to the better service of this professional group to the Portuguese country and consumers, as well as to improve the quality of the engineering being practised. We are therefore convinced that the process of discussion in the specialty, which will follow, will also be an excellent opportunity for receiving contributions that, we are sure, will contribute to better performance of the profession, always respecting the principles established by law, referring to the principle of harmonisation, transparency and promoting self-regulation and administrative decentralization. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u176	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u177	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Under-Secretary of State and Economics, Mr. Members : I begin not only by welcoming the representatives of the professional orders present in the galleries with interest in this discussion, but all professionals, men and women, in these areas of knowledge and activity — engineers, technical engineers, economists. I would like to say that, with these proposals of law, there is, in our view, a starting point for this discussion—and we have already said this in other discussions on professional orders—which has to do with the integration of professional orders and their legal framework into the services directive, from the point of view of Community options and policies, and in the policies for the liberalization and precariousization of professions and work. We therefore consider this to be a bad starting point because, as has already been said, the fact that the government is playing the troika box with respect to the framework law is then reflected in the bills we have before us. There is a political problem that even refers to the conception of the State and democracy, which is the problem of administrative protection, which already stems from the framework law and for which the CFP has alerted itself: it is that the State, by recognizing the public interest and the specificity of these professions, as well as the need to be established a system of self-regulation with autonomy, decides to delegate competences in professional orders, which should mean that the consequences of such an option should be fully assumed, i.e. the only protection should be that of the verification of legality, and for this there is no need for the protection of the Government. What the Government is putting forward with these proposals is the opposite, it is the government's administrative guardianship of the Orders for which it delegates responsibilities. in the case of the Order of Engineers, this protection of the Government implies the approval of the regulations of internships, specialties, specializations, admission and qualification... All these regulations must be subject to the approval of the Government. I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Government are of what importance, which is the advantage, what is the interest. Why does the Government have the right to veto these regulations? In addition, it is known the multiplicity of engineering specialties, it is known the diversity of work that is developed by both engineers and technical engineers in domains ranging from environment to forest, agronomy, to aeronautics and chemistry, etc. etc. , and in view of this, it is at least incomprehensible that administrative protection is still to be determined, to be exercised by the member of the Government responsible for the construction sector. It doesn't make any sense, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. As for the involvement and participation of the Orders, we did not say that the Orders were outside the discussion. Not at all! We have asked about the report, the record, the systematization of this debate and the work. It has nothing to do with the 'cold' opinions or the 'hot' reports that Mr. Secretary of State has in the drawer, it has nothing to do with that. This is, in fact, a reduced and impoverished view of participation and the lack of understanding of it, which Mr. Secretary of State himself, expressed in his intervention, is worrying and gives reason to, I would say, some sadness. It is because a Parliament that is confronted with a proposal that has gone through some time of maturation and debate and we do not know that debate was the same thing as an Assembly of the Republic publishing only laws without advertising the legislative process. It's exactly the same thing! We need to know, in depth, how this joint debate and work process is being claimed by you, because we are already far beyond the time of oral tradition, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. On the other hand, three short references to these bills. The possibility of being the orders and professional public associations to regulate matters of restriction on the access and exercise of professions does not seem to us the best solution, because it is the matter of rights, freedoms and guarantees defined by the Constitution of the Republic, which must only be subject to legislative intervention rather than to the intervention which is, as the first mission, set out in Article 3. the proposal for a statute of the Order of Engineers. We therefore have a difference in this matter. With regard to traineeships and trainees, the CFP has a fundamental concern that we have consistently been expressing, which has to do with a proposal that we have presented at the time of discussion of the framework law to ensure the remuneration of trainees' work whenever this work is done with objective elements that enable us to identify the situations in which this happens. We advance these elements. We are concerned about the opinion and content of the concerns expressed by the National Data Protection Commission on the issues of the Statute of the Economist Order, in particular the processing of personal data that is published in three or four articles of this Statute and how it is advertised. Finally, a final word on the role of regulatory concentration in the technical and scientific fields, on academic training and the exercise of the respective profession, by engineers and technical engineers, only to mention that, in particular in this field, one day, the Assembly of the Republic and the Country will have to have a more in-depth debate on the implications and concrete consequences of what has been and is being, in the country, the Bologna Process, in terms of qualifications and differentiation of professions. We shall have to have this debate and the honourable Members. Members certainly understand and agree with the relevance of this observation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u178	That is another debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u179	Also for an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also begin by congratulating, on my own behalf and on behalf of the CDS-PP, the representatives of the orders here present. I would like to say that this is not the space for a debate in the specialty. in this speciality debate, of course, within the framework of the working group, and in relation to all orders, go-CL will be to make a set of hearings, necessarily with the professional orders and associations themselves, to mock, to perfect these bills and to make the necessary changes. These proposals have above all an anchor, a foundation, a principle and three or four aspects which are important here. The anchor or principle is the Community directive, it is the framework law which was adopted here in 2013, which made it absolutely essential and unavoidable to amend the statutes not only of these orders that we are discussing here but of all professional orders. This is the anchor in which this whole legislative process is based. Then, at a later stage, we have three or four aspects which must be emphasized: one, as has already been mentioned, is the question of the stages, the dignity of them, incorporating them into their own statutes and not leaving them for the autonomous regulation to be drawn up by each order. Why, and we have to be frank in the answer? By chance, this did not happen with any of the orders under consideration here, but we know that there was one or more order that, in the past, by taking advantage of autonomy and lack of control, used the regulations on access to the profession to create almost an authentic blockade for all those who, although training given by the Portuguese State, were in practice prevented or virtually prevented, through limits on access to the internship, from freely accessing the profession for which they had obtained qualifications. On the other hand, we also have the incorporation into the statutes of another issue resulting from the Community directive, which is that of freedom of movement, of establishment, thus avoiding that, for the future, there may be conflicts between what the general law says, what the directives say and what they say, then the internal statutes of each professional association. There is still another fundamental issue here. Look, we're talking about access to the profession, but within the profession, the conditions of exercise of the profession are fundamental. And, really, at this level, a balance has to be established. We must not create artificial barriers to access to the profession, just because there is an order, but it must then be very rigorous in the conditions of exercise of the profession, and rigorous in terms of the code of ethics, in terms of the rules of exercise and the matter of disciplinary punishment for breaking these same ethical rules, because that is why there are professional orders. This is the fundamental reason given its technical complexity and its high specialisation, by which the State delegatees in the order of competences which are public. Therefore, this is a balance whose maintenance belongs to the orders themselves, as they have always done so far, namely these three, with all dignity and no grounds for public complaints, so it remains within the scope and sphere of competence of the orders. Now there is also a statutory dignity given to these powers and to those powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u181	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u182	I shall conclude, Mr President. Having emphasized these fundamental aspects, of course, these bills, drawn up by the Government in dialogue with all parties, have sought to cover them, but now, in the discussion of the specialty, even by suggestions from the orders themselves and the various parliamentary groups, there will be improvements to be introduced and we will be here to debate them and to introduce those that are appropriate. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u183	Mr António Cardoso has the floor for a very synthetic intervention, given the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u184	Mr President, first of all, I appreciate your opportunity. Two small notes, the first of which is a request to strengthen the participation of orders, taking advantage of their presence here to address this request, when they are called upon to make their contributions. The second note is an explanation to Mrs Vera Rodrigues, to tell her that the documents took two years to arrive here, to Parliament, and the technical note arrived yesterday at 23 hours and 41 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u185	Technical note? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u186	At 2 p.m., the report was completed in committee. If this isn't a supersonic speed, then clarify it better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u187	Mr Armenio Santos also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Representatives of the Orders that are here with us and, in their people, all the professionals who represent. I would like to make some considerations on the proposal for law No 301 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), which aims to adapt the Statute of the Order of Engineers, currently in force and approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92, to the legal regime established by Law No 2 / 2013. This Government initiative essentially retains the existing statutory rules, with the natural acceptance of the amendments resulting from the application of Law No 2 / 2013, which covers the organisation and operation of professional public associations, as is the case with the Order of Engineers. This is therefore a legislative initiative to comply with the provisions of Article 53. that of Law No 2 / 2013. This is, in our view, a good document, which not only adapts the functioning of the Engineers' Order to the legal regime of that framework law, but also harmonizes it with the European standards applicable to this type of professional public associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u190	It is a bill that the Government has built in dialogue with the representatives of the Order of Engineers, a methodology that we welcome and which is the basis of the balance that presides over the whole articulate of this document. We therefore want to highlight the work done by the Government, in conjunction with this Order, and the constructive availability revealed by this professional association to reach the document here under consideration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u192	It is now up to Parliament to do its work, in particular to assess whether there is a need and space to harmonise certain provisions and to introduce some improvements in this bill. Of course, we must take into account the specificity and relevance of the engineering profession, the permanent advances in the scientific, technical and economic and social fields that their activity most directly respects, and, in this light, try to guard the exercise of new specialties that are already important in the life of our country. We are thinking, for example, of creating new specialties, such as biomedical engineering/life sciences, food engineering and engineering and industrial management. But this work will be carried out in the field of specialty. on our part, there is availability to, together with the other benches and the Order of Engineers itself, arrive at a solution that, in respect of Law No 2 / 2013, deserves the widest support to this important bill,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u193	That's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u194	... for the prestige and dignity of Portuguese engineers and their professional association, but above all, so that these professionals can better serve the economic development and progress of our country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u195	For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am grateful, of course, for the constructive comments that have been made and I refer to three points that seem interesting: deadlines, internships and administrative protection. With regard to the deadlines, it is not a matter of speed, as you mentioned. When we are talking about harmonizing statutes of 18 orders involved in this process, there are legal solutions that can be very different and therefore the government has chosen to ensure that legal solutions are the same and that they represent, more than anything else, deep work, cross-sectional work and necessarily enduring work. Between ensuring the fulfilment of a specific 90-day deadline or not to involve the orders—and I also welcome them—we believe that the most important thing was, without any doubt, not to have two speeds, but, unequivocally, to listen to the orders and make a transversal reform applicable to all the professions in question. As far as the stages are concerned, I have heard what Mrs Mariana Mortágua has said, and it also makes sense to me — more traineeships, less employment — but to devote the internships to the statutes is precisely to ensure that orders do not introduce purely corporate regulations or barriers to the entry of many candidates into this profession. Therefore, the idea was exactly the opposite: not generalizing the stages. As far as administrative protection is concerned, Mr Bruno Dias, I am sad that he did not, unfortunately, have the imagination of finding new terms, using the terms of Mrs Mariana Mortágua on the "thing of the troika". [[PCP protests.]] I am sad, because I thought that Mr. Deputies had more imagination,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u197	I will bring you one of my speeches last year with the same terms!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u198	...more intellectual depth, but, finally, I'm glad you're next to the honourable Member, because, as a result, you can always hear it and perhaps learn something. But I would like to tell you that administrative protection comes from the framework law and is equivalent to that which the Government exercises on the autonomous administration, i.e. control of legality, Mr. And since the freedom to exercise the profession is a constitutional right and the creation of specialties can once again limit access to the profession, the objective is to ensure, in force of the law, the instruments to regulate these specialties. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the comments and interventions and, finally, I would like to say that, in the field of expertise, you can certainly call all the orders that can clarify all the work done together with the Government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u199	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers on this point of our agenda, and therefore the joint debate is closed, in general, of the proposals of lein. 294 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), 301 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 302 / XII ( 4. ( a). Let us now begin the general appraisal of Bill No. 295 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Architects, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the moment, and following the previous work, the Government is presenting to Parliament the bill establishing the new statutes of the Order of Architects. They are also integrated into a cross-sectional reform of the organisation and functioning of professional orders, and the new statutes of the Order of Architects are essentially aimed at, like the previous ones, at uniformizing the organic structures and ensuring the free movement of professionals in the European area. in this particular case, I stress the establishment of the assembly of delegates as a representative body of the architects members of the Order, with general deliberative powers, in particular in matters of approval of the budget, of the plan of activities or establishment of specialized colleges. On the other hand, the unequivocal forecast, as far as the profession is concerned, that only architects registered in the Order can use the professional title of architect and practice the actions of the profession. Finally, administrative protection. As it has now been discussed, until now more or less dispersed, it is now centralized in a member of the Government responsible for the area of spatial planning. A final note to the fact that the work carried out was guided by regular meetings close to the Order of Architects, thus ensuring a document globally accepted and able to respond to the needs of the profession. Let us now hope that, in a special debate, it will also be able to collect some final contributions and some refinements. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u201	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u202	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There is an original sin in this general format of orders, of qualified professional public associations, which is that of the transposition, by interference, of the service directive and of the qualification directive. The theory that freedom of movement will benefit Portuguese professionals is very relativized. And we will see, in our own time and in the usefulness of things, what is the consequence of this. for our part, we continue to understand that there is an disarmament of some professional conditions, without counterpart and without guarantee. And, therefore, this is the original sin of all orders, of professional public associations, with delegated powers. If the Government does not like the expression « the troika's coin touch», then he would like to admit that this was the starting point for all this, and that is what he has actually been dealing with. in the present case, on the Order of Architects, I notice that there is a position of the Order here, which is in line with the Government's proposal and which has a difference, which seems relatively secondary in relation to the establishment of professional associations, considered less demanding than trade associations in the profession. But also register—and that is an important point—in what it has to do with the limits of the profession, which there is a concordance, since this has been the subject of another parallel controversy and which here is protected in this context. So, Mr. Secretary of State, I will leave for the specialty and after hearing the Order, some other repairs that may be made. at the moment, I think there is not much more to say about this and, given the position of the Order of Architects, the best thing is to offer the merit of the proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u203	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u204	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Dear Members: The Socialist Party will vote in favour of this proposal for the adequacy of the Statute of the Order of Architects, also because many of the matters have been related to the work we have done here in Parliament. But, essentially, we will vote in favour because we look to the proposal which is presented to us to a large extent, but also because we have the availability, which is also ours, to improve some aspects of the proposal, in the field of expertise. And, of course, our final vote will be conditional on the results of this specialty work. The specialized work, from our point of view, must be based on the contributions we have already received, from the hearing, which should be done, to the Order of Architects, but also to all entities that have already made themselves available and requested to be heard, as is the case with the North Regional Section. We wanted to leave, in a very simple way, synthetic and objective way, some aspects that we want to revisit in the field of specialty and which also derive from the contributions already received. From the outset, everything that has to do with the transitional provisions of Article 3. that of the proposed law, in matters relating to the current mandate, the new bodies, the new powers, the deadlines for adequacy, the electoral regulation, the immediate exercise of new powers, among other matters related to these transitional provisions. Then we also referred to Article 44. the, relating to the exercise of the profession and its connection with the other professional orders; the matter of professional societies, contained in Articles 46. the following; all matters relating to the chapter of discipline and the subject matter relating to the creation of regional structures, the interconnection with the division of the current regional structure, which is a matter which has also been addressed in these opinions. Our willingness is constructive in presenting proposals to improve what is on the table in this diploma coming from the Government and we hope — from there our favourable vote — that this availability will have the necessary correspondence from the parliamentary groups of the majority and, of course, from the Government as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u205	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u206	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: The Government submits to this House Bill No. 295 / XII ( 4. ( a ) approving the new status of the Order of Architects. Like what has already been discussed before and still at the previous point in this agenda, this proposal consists of a wider set of 18 proposals which this Government submits with the aim of adapting them to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. It is important, as has already been mentioned here, to understand what is at the basis of this adequacy to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, that it is understood that, in the motivation of this proposal, there is the conformity to this legal framework which I referred to, but also the need to fulfil a set of commitments arising from either the Memorandum of Understanding or the Community directives regulating matters relating to professional qualifications and those relating to those of the internal market. On the basis of these questions I referred to and in accordance with Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, this Government then submits a proposal to amend, presenting the new statute of the Order of Architects, which replaces Decree-Law No. 176 / 98 of 3 July, and which has also been mentioned here, with the contributions of the Order of Architects, which I would like in particular to welcome the responsible and participatory position with which they have been involved in this process, but also to welcome, in general, all architects, being the recipients of this initiative. Of course, the Order of Architects is the public association that represents all those who exercise the profession of architect and has as its first end the safeguarding of constitutional interest by a proper planning of the territory, by a quality urbanism, by the defense and promotion of the landscape, of the built heritage, of the environment, of the quality of life and the right to architecture, without, of course, prejudice to all the other tasks that are committed to it legally. This proposal, which is presented here by the Government, is based on the introduction, in such legal conformation of the statutes of Law No 2/2013 and the Community directives, of certain new measures, including the issue of changes in regional structuring, in a logic that, so far, there were two regional structures and six regional structures, and relating to bodies and their designation; the introduction of new matters related not only to the right to establish and provide services to professional companies, associations of professionals from other Member States, but also to the single counter and the rules relating to advertising on the Internet, and which relate to Community internal market issues. Of course, it will now be up to the Assembly of the Republic, praising the concern of those who have prepared this proposal and of those who, being addressed by it, have become involved in this proposal which now reaches us, I said that it will be up to the Assembly of the Republic, in the field of specialty, to realize to what extent it will always make sense, in the notion of safeguarding the public interest of professional public associations but, above all, having the notion of the structural importance that they represent not only in the exercise of the profession, but also in access to it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u207	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u208	Mr President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Mrs and Mrs. Members : on the part of the CFP, much of what has been the position expressed in the proposed laws on professional orders also remains for this discussion on matters of substance. The framework and starting point for this bill with Law No 2/2013, the framework law, and with the Community directives giving rise to this political process - such an external interference framework with the troika covenant, which prevailed at the time this framework law was adopted - and the substantial issue of the precariousness of work and professions in relation to these matters, which, from our point of view, and the concrete experience is already being demonstrated - it has not been, nor is it, a good measure, and in the future, it will be even less so. I would like to raise a question that has to do with the method of discussion for this bill. contrary to the above point, we have an opinion here, yes, of the Order of Architects and the reference to this hearing in the preamble to the bill, we have the instruction and transmission of the concrete questions that have been put. I assume that each member of the Government, each sector area has accompanied and directed the proceedings in its own way. Well, here we actually have some documentation — contrary to the previous point, where the Government refused to provide any document or record of this discussion at the outset — and, with these elements, we have the understanding of an assessment of the preliminary draft of the bill which has been given and negotiated. I would like to ask about the final text that is presented by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic, whether or not there was acceptance of these matters, until there were texts that remained and prevailed in the Government's proposal and others that deserved the discontent expressed by the Order of Architects, as is the case with professional societies. I would also like to mention one last point, which has to do with access to the profession and administrative protection. As we have come to say and to demonstrate, our disagreement has to do with the defence that we make that access to the profession and the right to exercise the profession are essentially matters which are defined and determined at the legislative level, dealing with the subject of rights, freedoms and guarantees enshrined in the Constitution. And, therefore, what we have as a point of disagreement in this matter has to do with the allocation of these powers, then maintaining administrative protection. It is not really a question of having a sense or a contradiction of terms here. It is, in fact, another way and another solution from the political, legal and even constitutional point of view that we defend and therefore differ. This is the view we want to highlight here. The same problem that arises in other professions and in other orders has to do with the question of internships and the work of trainees and, once again, here too, we do not fail to express ourselves and reaffirm that the CFP considers that the work of trainees should be effectively paid. When it is effective work it must be effectively paid and this should be enshrined in the law. We're sorry it wasn't. There is such statutory and legal dignity as you are. Members of Parliament and members of the Government should in any event also mention this principle: equal work, equal pay and in the case of traineeship work there should be remuneration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u209	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today's debate may lead to the adequacy of the Statute of the Order of Architects to a new legal regime for the creation, organization and functioning of public and professional associations. We are therefore talking about Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January. For this to happen, respecting provision 53 in the articulated. that of the Law, it is necessary to promote changes that guarantee legislative harmony between all diplomas. Many times, and in order for us to live in a society based on legal values of perfect guidance, we must also promote these approaches. Only in this way can we consider that legal certainty will not be called into question, insofar as there are laws that contradict other laws. But as legislators, we cannot only worry about this. We are talking about a profession that has weight in the national society, responsibility for the cultural elements that represent in the national building and, above all, of concrete agents who have to find their work tool in the law. That is why, in order to make an assessment of the impacts, we need to understand what the agents think. in the specific case, and after consulting the opinion of the Order of Architects, we can see that there were not many differences between the initial proposal and the willingness of the agents. We realize that there was a relevant and concrete concern with regard to the effects of the proposed changes at the level of social bodies, tasks and competences. However, and after the prompt response of the Order of Architects, it seems to us that the government has found a way to solve the problem in its final version. Also in Article 44. the, on the exercise of the profession, or as regards Article 46. the, about professional societies, we find repairs and proposals for improvement. But in view of the final proposal, it seems to us that the best interest of the profession was safeguarded and appropriate to the intentions of the respective professional order. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, it should be noted that a question has also been raised about the reference to the law concerning the competent judicial institution to address the questions against the Order to the persons to whom sanctions or counter-ordinations are applied. This was thus a matter which was clarified and, to this end, an improved text was used in the last article of the diploma which is now under consideration. Of all the comments raised here, I stress that the work carried out at the government level took into account the agents, harmonised the texts, without prejudice to the deepening they may have in the work in particular. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u211	The Bureau shall also record an inscription from the Government. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on some of the issues that have been raised and which concern divergent positions and which apply cross-cuttingly to all proposals relating to professional orders, I believe that we must accept that there is a difference of opinion here and, therefore, we regret that we are always repeating the same arguments from one side to the other. in the specific case of the Order of Architects, and I take the opportunity to congratulate its representatives who have come to follow the work, there is a comment that has been made on the free movement by Mr Luís Fazenda that I think it is even less applicable, particularly in this case. Thanks to their work, to their merit and to the excellence they have shown over the years, architects are an example in which we have numerous projects, numerous collaboration networks that demonstrate their capacity in the European space and indeed free movement will only allow this to happen in a strengthened way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u213	That's not what's at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u214	Regarding the other questions that have been raised and the comments we have received, I must say that I sincerely hope that in the discussion of the specialty it will be possible to further deepen the consensus that was possible to build with the Order of Architects. As mentioned above, the proposal was based on the work carried out on a first proposal of the Order of Architects, at multiple meetings and involving multiple members of the Government, at cross-sectional meetings involving all those who had guardianships over professional orders. Therefore, we believe that tomorrow, as a matter of discussion in the specialty, it will be possible to consolidate this bill within the existing legal framework. It is also in this area that the case of professional societies, which have their own system established by law and which these Statutes, of course, reflect, will be considered. I thank everyone and especially the Order of Architects for the work they have built with us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u215	We now move on to point 4 of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 296 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), which approves the new Statute of the Order of Biologists, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. You have the floor to present the Government's bill, Mr. Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the representatives of the Order of Biologists who are attending the work. With regard to the specific case of the Order of Biologists, and following exactly the same methodology that was adopted in the remaining cases, i.e. a fruitful and collaborative work with the Order, it can be said that in this case there are some specificities because, in fact, there is a field of action of this Order that distinguishes it from some of the others, in particular because of the fact that we have, in view of the word Biology itself, as a science that studies life, the idea that this is an area that is present in many areas of activity, particularly in the areas of the environment and conservation of nature, research, health or education, thus putting some different challenges. in this sense, the Government presents to Parliament the bill establishing the new Statutes of the Order of Biologists, and as referred to in the Statutes of the Order of Architects, these amendments aim once again and fundamentally to standardise organic structures and ensure free movement in the European space. In this case too, administrative protection is centralized in the member of the Government who is responsible for the duties relating to the conservation of nature. I note that the opinion of the Order of Biologists made available to the Assembly of the Republic also highlights the efficiency, cooperation in this process and its agreement with the version presented. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u217	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u218	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be very brief. The opinion of the Biologists' Order is in the sense of absolute agreement with the text that was found. Also in this case, in the field of specialty, and listening to those concerned, we can look better at some aspects correlated with this Statute of the Order of Biologists. In all circumstances, I would like to tell the Secretary of State that it is not just the professional merit of one or others who has to do with free movement. This, in some of the professions, has been a matrix that has accompanied them, but what we have to see, first of all, is the possibility of finding the occupation of their talents and their professional experience in our own country and the assurances that they will not come to competition that is effectively unequal. This is the question that is generally raised in relation to all professions and not just to one or the other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u219	Mrs Maria Conceição Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by congratulating members of the Order of Biologists and their professionals on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Today, as has already been said, we are considering Bill No. 296 / XII, which follows the publication of Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, which established the new legal regime for the creation and operation of professional public associations. The Order of Biologists was created on 4 July 1998 and resulted from the transformation of the Portuguese Association of Biologists. This bill implements the first amendment to Decree-Law No 183 / 98 of 4 July, which approved the previous Statute of the Order of Biologists. This Statute of the Order, as the previous one, and has already been said here, does not make major changes and maintain as its main aim the defense and promotion of the profession of biologist. When we are talking about the profession of biologist, who is better than the current carpenter who, in his words of presentation of the Order, says: "Life can be short, but it is very wide. And biology, which is the science that studies life, is therefore also very broad». It is broad because, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned, it covers several areas: ecologists, health technicians, researchers, entrepreneurs, trainers, teachers. We are talking about science and professionals who intervene in areas of greater relevance, ranging from health, to the environment or agriculture. And when we talk about the environment we think about the major climate changes; when we talk about health, we think about the importance these professionals have, so that many of them have already been graduated, along with great researchers, with the Nobel Prize; when we talk about agriculture, we think about the challenges that are facing the world population, their growth and the need for food production. Therefore, it is vast the area in which these professionals develop their activity. in the reformulation of the Statute of the Order of Biologists, the Government introduces important changes, in addition to those which Mr. Secretary of State has already mentioned, that we highlight the definition of its members, extending it to associated members, the question of professional societies, and a very important area, the creation of the bodies of specialized colleges of Human Biology, Health, Environment, Biotechnology, Education and their respective directions. They also create, in Chapter IX, an adaptation to new technologies, creating electronic commerce, the single document and counter, as well as the mandatory information on the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave a word of fulfillment both to the Government and to the elements of the Order of Biologists, for the way they have carried out this work, for the deep collaboration and cooperation they have carried out and that has allowed the presentation of this Statute, with the recognition by the Order that is reflected in this bill. The PSD welcomes this excellent work and is available, as it has always been, for now, in the specialty, and if necessary, still improves it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u221	For an intervention, Mr Mário Ruivo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: in this debate on Bill No 296 / XII ( 4. a ), on the new Statute of the Order of Biologists, wanted to begin by welcoming their social bodies, as well as their associates, by working to defend and promote the improvement and progress of Biology, in the scientific, pedagogical, technical and professional fields. This proposal aims to conform to the new Statute of the Order of Biologists to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, finally correcting the significant delay of the Government in relation to this initiative, which should have occurred much longer than the two years that took to make this presentation. As provided for in Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January in its Article 53. o the deadline for the Government to present this legislative initiative to the Assembly of the Republic would be 90 days. For this reason, perhaps the government itself will have imposed strict deadlines on the professional orders which have been fulfilled, adapting its Statutes to the new regime. They fulfilled their role, but then they had to wait two years for the government to do their part. This delay was incomprehensible, affected the normal functioning of the orders, because in several matters it caused controversy about the statutes then in force, so any speech on tolerance was not followed with regard to those which were the demands placed on the professional orders. Moreover, these concerns were not only expressed by the Socialist Party, but also by the President of the National Council of Professional Orders, Dr. Orlando Monteiro da Silva, who wrote a letter last summer to the Government, asking for clarifications about the delay in meeting these deadlines. He did not get a response from the government, which forced the publication of an open letter in the press. In addition to this problem of delay, the present initiative is not accompanied by the contribution given by the Order of Biologists, that the Government, in its explanatory statement, mentions but that it did not arrive or, at least, did not reach the Commission - we did not have access to this document - so we would like that opinion to be sent to us in space. In conclusion, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the two years that this legislative initiative has remained in the Assembly of the Republic, creating some instability in the system of the functioning of professional orders, the PS hopes that until the end of this legislative process it will be possible to correct the constraints created so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u223	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u224	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: My first compliance goes to the orders here, in particular the Order of Biologists. The CDS, here today and again in front of all, recognizes the importance due and deserved to the Order of Biologists and professionals who honorably exercise this noble activity. The biologist is undoubtedly a scientist who develops his work using scientific methods. He therefore works in the midst of rigor, in research or routine laboratories, such as those of clinical biology, but rigor is not forgotten when he works in open field, in full nature, anywhere where there is life to be studied.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u226	Biology is, in fact, the science that studies life, an immense life that embraces ecologists such as health or environment technicians, researchers, teachers and entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, biotechns, computers, physicists, biochemicals, etc. — you have already understood that the list is huge! — but also, for example, science journalists. And, because we are talking about life, we cannot fail to mention the areas of action, some of which these professionals devote themselves, from the beginning, to zoology, genetic engineering, marine biology, cell biology, botany or ecology, among many others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u228	Returning to the diploma here under discussion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember that it was Law No. 120 / 97 of 13 November which authorized the Government to create the Order of Biologists, and it is therefore the genesis of this Order or, if they prefer, even the blow of their own life. in the development of the established in the so-called Law No. 120 / 97, we witnessed the publication of Decree-Law No. 183 / 98, which transformed the Portuguese Association of Biologists into Order of Biologists. It was thus given to the Order the power and the duty to ensure the defence and promotion of the profession of biologist, the improvement and progress of biology in the scientific, pedagogical, technical and professional fields, the power and the duty to safeguard the ethical principles that guide the profession of biologist, the power and the duty to protect the professional interests of its members and the public interests related to the professional performance of biologists.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u230	It follows that at the end of 2012 this Parliament passed the new law on professional orders, making the Government obliged to submit to the Assembly the amendments to the statutes of existing professional public associations. For the effective establishment of a new harmonised legal framework in this area, in addition to the approval of the Act, it was also necessary to supplement the scheme approved by Law No 9 / 2009 on the recognition of professional qualifications, and Council Directive No 2006 / 100 / EC of 20 November 2006. It is therefore in this 'DNA sequence' that we find that the government has fulfilled its obligation and here we are discussing today, and then we will vote, the proposed law that will conform the statutes of the Biologists' Order to the framework law. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to point out that this initiative amends some provisions on the creation, organization and operation of the Order, access and exercise of the profession of biologist, with regard, inter alia, to freedom to provide services, freedom of establishment, vocational training, incompatibilities and impediments, etc. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance that the Government has recognised to the Order of Biologists, involving it in all this process of review of legislation, and I commend, praise and praise the favourable opinion transmitted by the Order of Biologists. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u231	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to point out that, indeed, the opinion has been delivered and is currently published on the website of the Assembly of the Republic, according to me, until what the opinion transmits is in fact that the work has been carried out in great collaboration with the Order of Biologists, which is entirely covered by the proposal presented and therefore there would be no reason for that opinion not to follow the process. I would also like to point out that, of course, we welcome the comments that have been made and, if there is any room for improvement, we say that this happens in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u233	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries. The fourth item on the agenda is closed. We will move on to point 5, which consists of the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 1245 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the maximum permitted power in the engines of local fishing vessels as well as the strengthening of monitoring to them ( CDS-PP ), 1409 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote legislative amendment allowing for increased power of engines installed in local fishing vessels ( PS ), 1411 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen the safety of local fishing vessels ( CFP ) and 1413 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends increased power of local fishing vessels' engines for greater safety of fishermen ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Altino Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution we are bringing here today recommends to the Government that it review the maximum permitted power in the engines of local fishing vessels, as well as the strengthening of the monitoring to them. This draft resolution results in a work of proximity to fishing populations, listening to their hopes and concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u236	The fishing activity is one of the most dangerous activities for those who practice it, often unfortunately, resulting in their death. The entrances and exits of the bars and beaches are undoubtedly the most dangerous moments for craft fishing vessels, often endangering the safety of people and goods. The power of the engines in local fishing vessels up to 9 m when the vessel has closed decks may reach 100 cv. on the contrary, when vessels have open decks, they can only go to the limit of power of 60 cv. What we want is, exactly, to standardize these two types of vessel, i.e. open deck boats can also have powers up to 100 cv. The regulatory decree imposing maximum power is in accordance with a European Community standard, the only objective being not the safety of persons and goods but rather the non-increase in catch rates. It is precisely what concerns us, the security of people and goods, saving lives, and not the increase in capture. Having heard the fishermen, they considered that allowing the use of popa engines up to 100 cv, in one motor or in two engines, for open deck boats, would be enough to avoid many problems and many difficulties that fishermen encounter. The members of the CDS, aware of the relevance of the fishermen's arguments, recommend that the Government carry out a review of the maximum allowed power for vessels up to 9 m. What we want is to increase the safety of the risk when these vessels enter the sea, either by beach or by rail, which are always moments of great danger. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u237	Horseback riding should only be used for safety issues rather than for increased fishing. We also have here today a draft resolution by the Socialist Party, about which there is not much to say because basically it replicates our draft resolution. The Left Block also presents here a draft resolution, which goes further, in order to allow a second engine, to use only in emergency situations of 60 cv. Likewise with those who are the first interested, the fishermen's associations, we have never heard this claim but, yes, the increase from 60 hp to 100 hp — we are talking about an increase of about 70 % — which serves the fishermen's claims and their safety. The PCP also brings us here a draft resolution that, in one of the points, meets the draft resolution of the Left Block, but also aims to subsidize gasoline. What we can say is that at the moment this matter cannot be dealt with here. We, CDS-PP, request the approval of our draft resolution and then we ask the Government to be speedy in legislation allowing the use of engines up to 100 cv on the part of these fishermen, thus increasing their level of safety. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u238	Mr Jorge Fão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Improving the working conditions of fishermen, fishing professionals, reducing the number of shipwrecks and consequently the number of victims resulting from these same accidents at sea, is a concern that must constantly deserve the attention and commitment of political decision-makers, and that is why we are discussing this matter today. Reducing shipwrecks and the number of victims resulting from accidents at sea depends on several factors. Of course, it depends on professional training of fishing professionals, done in an appropriate and persistent manner. It depends, of course, on another fundamental issue, which is the capacity of good organization and the effectiveness of the response of the means of relief and rescue. It also depends on good use of the individual means of rescue which, on board, must be used by fishing professionals. It depends heavily on adequate maintenance of access channels and fishing port bars, therefore a system for maintaining dredging and constant de-absorption, which carries out systematic monitoring of this situation and maintains these security conditions. Of course, in addition to these conditions, it is important that fishing professionals, when on board and, above all, before leaving the sea, have a good ability to read the climatic conditions and the conditions of the sea state, thereby reducing the risk of the activity. It is also important for professionals to pay attention to notes and determinations, either by the maritime authority or by captains, when defining the closure or opening of bars, in order to be able to carry out the activity. These are important issues, which often depend on the attitude of fishing professionals but also, and above all, on good services by the State, in maintaining the operating conditions of fishing ports. however, this matter of safety on board, and consequently of the good operating conditions of vessels, is a matter and a matter that must be taken into account, because it also has a significant importance in reducing shipwrecks and victims in the fisheries sector, which is why we are moving here today. These draft resolutions deal with this matter, which concerns the type of engines with which the vessels are equipped, whose safety results from active conditions and passive conditions, either from construction or from the engine system. Therefore, it seems to us that the claim made by professionals, both amateurs and coastal and local fishing professionals in our country is a fair claim that must be met. Therefore, the Socialist Party, accompanying other parties with seats in this Chamber, presents a draft resolution that goes exactly in this direction, because nowadays the rules establishing the operating conditions of the vessels at the level of the engines that equip them are established, as has been said today, in Regulation Decree No 7/2000. It is necessary to revise this Regulatory Decree so that vessels, whether open or closed, can be equipped with a monitoring system that enables them to react and agility in adverse sea situations, which are very common on the Portuguese coast. Therefore, this claim must be met and the draft resolutions which the other parties present, although, of course, they make this approach differently, are not in any way incompatible. from there our recommendation that the Government pay attention to these calls for attention, which revises this Regulatory Decree and enables vessels of Portuguese artisanal fishing to be equipped up to 9 m long with engines with power up to 100 cv and that, of course, the safety conditions of the fishing professionals under the adverse conditions that the bars and the Portuguese sea constantly provoke them are significantly elevated. This is the reason that leads us to present this draft resolution and that is also the reason why we welcome the draft resolutions presented by the other parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u240	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a subject with a great deal of interest to the fisheries sector. The main problem of fisheries and primary productive sectors is the profitability of their activity. One of the yield variables is the costs of the production factors, in which the price of fuels represents a large weight. Another important variable of income is the price of the first sale of fish. Here we can refer, for example, to Docapesca data : according to the latest available data, in the week of 6 to 10 April 2015, for example, speak of the price of the sardine, sold at a maximum price of 1, 28 € and at a minimum price of 0, 48 € — this when there is shortage, in which the average does not exceed 0, 60 €; in relation to the horse, the maximum selling price is 1, 24 €; in relation to the carapou, the minimum price is 0, 58 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u242	We're talking about security!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u243	It is true that the theme we are dealing with today is security and we have talked about profitability because precisely the intention, the will and the interest of fishermen to seek the profitability and the return of their activity is that, often in precarious safety situations, they go to sea. Therefore, creating better safety conditions does not cease to be linked by creating better income for fishing activity, because creating better incomes creates better security situations. But in this respect, the government has done little. One of the characteristics of fishing activity, which has already been mentioned here, is the fact that some of the vessels operate from beaches and, under these conditions, the entry and exit of the sea require propulsion capacity appropriate to the characteristics of the fleet and sea conditions. That is why increasing engine power is not, as is often said, directly related to fishing effort. The Government has often referred to this matter. Yesterday, he said that by increasing engine power, fishing effort is increasing. Given the characteristics of the Portuguese fleet, this is not true, since, under these conditions, the power of the engines is to increase the safety conditions. The CFP has often put forward proposals in this regard in order to respond to this set of problems, namely the increase in engine power, the subsidization of petrol, as mentioned above, and even the need for a plan to disabsorption and not only point de-absorption, because reality has shown that there is a need for a dredging plan, which has not happened. It is worth remembering here that, even recently, in October, we discussed a proposal from the CFP — it is true that it was specific to blue-eyed art — which, although in it we speak on the two engines, as we now speak, proposes precisely the existence of a main engine that could have up to 100 cv of power. And the truth is that at that time, in October last year, the CDS and PSD voted against this proposal. There is nothing like getting closer to the elections to sharpen the sensitivity of the honourable Members. Members of the CDS and PSD on security matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u244	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u245	The draft resolution presented by the CFP states precisely that it is necessary to increase the power of engines to 100 cv — at present only closed vessels can have it and we propose that it also be extended to open vessels. We also propose that they have a second engine of 60 hp to be used in case of emergency, which effectively increases the capacity of closed vessels, because they already have a motor of up to 100 hp and so if they have more than 60 hp engine they are increasing their capacity. We also propose that local fishing vessels be considered all vessels up to 12 m long and not only those which are up to 9 m long. Subsidy of petrol is also essential because the characteristics with which these vessels operate, in particular the need for propulsion to enter the sea, depend on the use of gasoline. Only gasoline allows these vessels to have sufficient propulsion to ensure safety conditions. That is why the question of petrol is present here and is so important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u246	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u247	I will finish, Mr. President. Subsidy of petrol will allow it to be sold to the sector at a price equivalent to that of diesel oil. The proposal of the Left Block is not as comprehensive as that of the CFP, but it goes in the same direction and therefore we approve it. The CDS proposal improves a little, but it is far from what would be necessary. So let us see how far the majority is effectively concerned about the sector and whether the CFP proposals will be approved. Only if these proposals are adopted in concrete terms is that we believe they are truly concerned about the sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u248	Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is on the safety of fishermen. It is an important debate and a concrete debate. The proposals put forward by the various parliamentary groups to increase engine power are not a detail. The power of the engines makes all the difference in days of bad weather and, above all, in the entry and exit to the sea, as well as the existence of a second engine, although with less power, to be used in emergency situations, can also make all the difference. I'm sorry, ladies. Members, in particular that Mr Altino Bessa has, in a linear way, rejected this proposal, only saying that he has never heard this claim. Mr. Member, I could be open to a more in-depth debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u250	To the fishermen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u251	Certainly with the fishermen too, because this was not born because someone invented the need for a second engine in the boats, which will only be used in emergency situations. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we are discussing the safety of fishermen. And rather than simply saying 'no', because now we just want to increase the ride of the engines', we will consider how important it is to have a second engine in the boats for these situations as well. For the Left Block, and what we heard and listened to makes all the sense. And I appeal to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not miss this opportunity to go a little further with regard to the safety of vessels and, as a result, the safety of those who are fishing. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be a missed opportunity — perhaps not to be missed, but not to stay halfway — I appeal to the honourable Members. Members for this debate and for the possibility of setting up the second engine, which does not seem to me to be anything in this context. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the Left Block will enable other initiatives, although taking into account that some of them do not go as far as they should go. And here I am again calling for this step, particularly on the issues of the second engine, which I think is quite important to ensure the safety of fishermen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u252	Mr Ulisses Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the issues of these four draft resolutions is neither new nor innovative. It emerges as a result of the Government's policy to improve safety conditions for seafarers and, in particular, after the Secretary of State of the Sea has publicly announced his commitment to revise the legal limits laid down for local fishing vessels' engines, providing them with better safety conditions in the face of the adverse sea, in particular at the entrances and exits of bars or fishing ports. It is therefore in our view that the expansion of the power of the boats' engines up to 9 m, distributed between one or two engines, up to a maximum of 100 cv, is positive. In fact, the current discriminatory situation between closed and open deck boats is today unjustifiable and deserves an appropriate legislative review. However, as you know, this amendment lacks the proper framework in Community terms, since motors with higher powers may also mean an increase in fishing effort, in line with our international commitments. I am sure that the work of the Secretary of State for the Sea will once again be able to accommodate this issue without harming all the other agreements taken in terms of the common fisheries policy. Mrs. Members, taking advantage of the strategic importance of the sea is to address it in an integrated way, with concrete political decisions for the economic actors who work in it. It is about creating conditions for economic activities, such as fisheries, to develop sustainably. in this sense, I would like to welcome the governmental options and the results achieved in various fisheries support areas and would like to recall, for example, three decisive measures. First of all, the review carried out to the Pay Compensation Fund for Fisheries Professionals, which enabled greater flexibility and scope to be applied. Thus, in 2014 and 2015, the value paid to fishermen was about five times higher than the average annual amount paid between 2009 and 2013, which reveals a strong political option in support of fishermen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u255	Secondly, we welcome the consecutive increase in fishing quotas for Portugal between 2011 and 2015 in 46 % represented an increase in opportunities for our fishermen after years of reduction or stagnation and a recognition, internationally, of the sustainable way in which our fish resources have been managed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u256	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u257	Finally, we welcome the solution found for blue art, which finally sees its problem solved through the possibility of selling...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u258	Which one?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u259	That's right, Mr. João Ramos! I said that blue art finally sees its problem solved through the possibility of selling the product resulting from the first spear. For years this solution has been claimed for this kind of fishing art, a solution now achieved. Finally, I would like to remind you that without this priority given to the fisheries sector the entire sea economy would be compromised. This credible, stable and firm position in terms of fisheries policy, demonstrated over the past four years, has strengthened the sea and, consequently, the growth and development of our country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-16.u260	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries. Our work is over for today. We will meet tomorrow, 17 a.m. on 10 a.m. with the following agenda: a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on issues of political, economic and social relevance. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 56 minutes.]]
