ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u1	Mrs. Members, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, motions for resolutions Nos 105 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014, 106 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Air Transport between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Equatorial Guinea signed in Lisbon on 15 May 2014 and 107 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014, which fall to 2. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 1249 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Spain ( President of the HR ) and 1250 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission for the Management of BES and the Espírito Santo Group, to the process leading to the implementation of the resolution measure and its consequences, in particular with regard to developments and options relating to GHG, BES and the New Bank ( RA President ). Finally, he entered, and was admitted, Bill No. 769 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of domestic violence by amending the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September 2009 and the second amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start the joint discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein.o 271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JHA of 26 February 2009 amending Framework Decisions No 2002 / 584 / JAI, 2005 / 214 / JAI, 2006 / 783 / JAI, 2008 / 909 / JAI and 2008 / 947 / JAI, and strengthening the procedural rights of persons and promoting the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the defendant, 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for issuing, recognising and monitoring the implementation of decisions on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention and the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of non-compliance with the measures imposed, transposing Council Framework Decision No 2009 / 829 / JAI of 23 October 2009 and 274 / XII of 4. ( a ) — establishes the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification by transposing to the domestic legal order Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States and repealing Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August 2009. Madam Minister of Justice, with my compliments, you have the floor to present the bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u4	Madam President, allow me to congratulate this House. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) makes the first amendment to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JAI of the Council of 26 February 2009 which amended the previous Framework Decisions, in particular 2002, 2006 and 2008, and which strengthens the procedural rights of persons and promotes the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the case. Bill No 272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) establishes the legal regime for issuing, recognising and monitoring the implementation of decisions on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention and for the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of failure to comply with the measures imposed by transposing Framework Decision No 2009 / 829 / JHA of 23 October 2009. In turn, Bill No 274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) lays down the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification, also transposing to the domestic legal order a Framework Decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between the Member States, and repealing Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August. All of these bills find their genesis in Community acts which are thus transposed into the national legal system. When we look at the legal globe, we see the existence of various levels of intersections, cross-border instruments of cooperation or harmonisation in criminal matters of a global or almost global nature, as is the case with the conventions held within the framework of the United Nations, with regional instruments arising, above all, from the Council of Europe and the European Union and bilateral instruments. We are talking about cooperation or harmonisation as the paradigm has evolved, and the trend towards the adoption of instruments intended to establish identical or parametric rules is increasing, as we understand, in terms that minimize the possible differences in regulation between the various States, both with regard to substantive criminal law and with regard to procedural criminal law. This is a development that seeks to respond to the re-designation of criminal activity, especially the most serious activity that is now markedly transnational, organized and sophisticated. On the basis of this development, there is also, in particular, an ever-increasing approach to the European Union of the Member States in terms of legislation in the criminal field. in the conclusions of the presidency of the Tampere European Council, in particular, it is stated that European integration has always been strongly rooted in the common ideal of freedom based on human rights, with democratic institutions and in the rule of law. These values which inform and guide all the European Union's activities have led to the recognition of the principle of mutual recognition as a basis for international judicial cooperation within the European Union, with the prospect that by simplifying procedures and thus contributing to their agility, if it is simultaneously strengthening the judicial protection of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. The 2004 Hague programme and the 2010 Stockholm programme also constituted decisive frameworks for strengthening European integration in criminal matters, underlining, in the second, the intention to give greater efficiency to judicial cooperation through the approximation, if necessary, of substantive and procedural law with a view to facilitating mutual recognition. Finally, also relevant in this analysis plan, the focus is on the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, in which Article 6. it recognizes the right to freedom and security, in line with other international instruments, in particular with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. It is therefore in this context that the Government presents the three above-mentioned bills, stressing that the principles on which European criminal law is based are being built are all taken into account. The principle of mutual recognition which presides over the regime of the European arrest warrant is also the driving force behind the system of recognition and enforcement of coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention, for which the intervention of the central authorities has been waived and its processing directly between the competent authorities of the issuing State and the executing State. On the other hand, in the same way as in the European arrest warrant regime, the new system of recognition and enforcement of coercion measures, as an alternative to preventive detention, given the seriousness of certain offences, is exempted from double criminality, sufficient for the recognition of the decision to apply the corresponding coercion measure that in the issuing State such infringements are punishable by deprivation of liberty of a maximum duration of no more than three years. These are the cases, among others, of terrorist crimes, sexual exploitation of children, arms trafficking, drug trafficking, corruption, whitening, etc. The European arrest warrant ensures agile detention and delivery of a person sought and covers all stages of the proceedings, as is clear. When Portugal is the executing State, the legally envisaged procedure necessarily includes the hearing of the defendant, assisted by his defender. The amendment now proposed specifically seeks to establish, on grounds of refusal to comply with the arrest warrant, the circumstances of the judgment of the person concerned were not known to the said trial, in which the decision or measure of deprivation of liberty was preferred, because it had gone away and had not been notified personally. The possibility of exercising the right of defence in criminal proceedings is, for us, an inalienable guarantee of the rule of law, as is the case in Article 32. the Constitution of the Republic. in an overall view of the European framework for judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the new system for the recognition of coercion measures adds the existing possibility of the movement of sentencing decisions and the possibility of the movement of decisions applying coercion measures, which means that we will not disintegrate these citizens from their context. It is important to point out the flexibility that the regime is endowed with, as it is important to make clear, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in these matters the Government will clearly opt for a line that safeguards rights, freedoms and guarantees. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u5	The Bureau does not register any honourable Member to ask questions. [[Pause.]] After all, Mr.António Gameiro wants to ask Mr.Minister questions. He asked Parliamentary banks to register their Members in advance. You have the floor, Mr. António Gameiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u6	Mr President, Minister of Justice, at the beginning of this debate, we would like to ask you about an issue which, for the PS Parliamentary Group, is central and has to do with the Government's criterion regarding the request for opinions to the National Data Protection Commission. This is because four government initiatives are presented here this morning, two of which led the Government to request an opinion from the National Data Protection Commission and two others did not have the same treatment. The question is of the rule of law, it is of defence, of guarantee to individuals, of ensuring that personal data are processed and in law, with the strictness and scrutiny of the opinions of the competent authorities under the Personal Data Protection Act. And we envision an attempt on the part of the government to pass between raindrops—to diplomas where you feel more comfortable, ask for opinions, for others do not ask. Mr Minister, explain to Parliament why the government has a criterion for some diplomas and has another criterion for others. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u7	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u8	Madam President, my answer is very quick. Mr President, it is very simple: we consult the National Data Protection Commission in accordance with the law, when the law requires it and when the law requires it. That's the criterion, that's the legal criterion. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u9	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Francisca Almeida is registered by the PSD. So far, it is the only inscription that the Bureau registers. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u10	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are debating today three bills implementing the transposition into the internal legal order of the 2009 Framework Decisions on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States and, generally, the principle of mutual recognition. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If I may, I will concentrate my intervention in particular on the proposals of lein. 274 and 272 / XII ( 4. ( a). The first, despite the fact that a framework decision has been transposed, is fair to recognize that it goes far beyond the mere acceptance of Community law in our legal system. This is also recognized by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy when, in its opinion under the legislative procedure, it states, and I quote: 'The legislative text contained in this proposal of law proceeds to a thorough review of the Criminal Identification Act in force, taking advantage of the opportunity to transpose into the domestic legal order requirements resulting from the condition of Portugal as a Member State'. In fact, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the case, and in this profound review, Mrs Minister, we could not fail to point out and welcome the reformist momentum which, moreover, in good truth, we have already become accustomed to and we have already become accustomed to. In addition to the rules on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States, the proposal we are discussing facilitates access by public entities which conduct a given administrative procedure to the criminal registration certificate, provided that it is authorised by the Commission itself. basically, it does what is claimed in so many areas: it ceases to require citizens to provide the State with information which, strictly speaking, the State already has. On the other hand, the issue of certificates, in particular for professional purposes, is simplified and simplified. in the background, simpler and more effective technical solutions are adopted in a procedure which, in time, was markedly bureaucratic. It should also be recalled that the text of the bill emphasises that there are now more than 150 situations in which legal standards impose the absence of criminal records for the purposes of access to the profession. It is therefore not as you can see, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, clearing the universe we're talking about. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister: I leave a second note for Bill No 272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) a proposal which well reflects the principle of mutual recognition within the framework of judicial cooperation. the principle of mutual recognition of co-operation measures alternative to preventive detention is therefore to be applied by transposing the 2009 Framework Decision. It is intended that a European citizen may be subject to a non-intentional coercion measure in the Member State in which he resides pending trial by criminal proceedings in a different Member State. It is — we must recognise it — a decision of the greatest relevance, insofar as it enables us to reduce coercive measures of a detention nature when and because suspects reside in a Member State other than the one in which the proceedings are conducted, which, in fact, is a corollary not only of the principle of presumption of innocence and of the right to freedom, but also of non-discriminatory treatment among European citizens. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diplomas we are discussing today have already been widely voted upon by the various representatives and agents of justice, deserve the general approval of all, as, moreover, well mirror the opinions, even before the final version and the introduction of the bill in this Parliament, and we are sure that the same will happen in the context of the speciality assessment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u11	The next intervention is the PS. Mr António Gameiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall read the contents of Article 22. , paragraph 2, of the Personal Data Protection Act : « The National Data Protection Commission shall be consulted on any legal provisions as well as legal instruments in preparation in Community or international institutions relating to the processing of personal data. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr Minister, I would like you to speak on what you have just said, since the Government cannot, you should consult the National Data Protection Commission, which you have done in relation to two legislative initiatives and you have not done so in two others, so I would like to know what the high criteria of the Government in this matter is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u13	Mrs Teresa Anjinho of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u14	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, as it has announced well, proposes to us today the evaluation of a set of legislative proposals aimed at carrying out, in the strict international framework which has already been referred to here, the transposition of so many other framework decisions on the recognition of judicial decisions, international judicial cooperation on the application of coercion measures and on criminal identification. in the framework of the European Union, and as a preamble, we find it essential that judicial cooperation actually involves facilitating cooperation between justice professionals in all Member States, since there is no European criminal law itself. For this reason, it is necessary to strengthen the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters, as well as the approximation of legislation in various fields, procedural and material, and the control of the application of the legislation adopted. in this framework, the principle of mutual recognition is undoubtedly recognized by the Council as a cornerstone of judicial cooperation. Now, the first initiative, Bill No 271 / XII ( 4. a ) refers precisely to the first realization of this principle of mutual recognition, i.e. the regime of the European arrest warrant. A number of amendments are therefore proposed which result from a work to monitor and evaluate the practical application of this scheme. It is worth noting, as has already been pointed out, the strengthening of procedural rights and the promotion of the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards the decisions made in the absence of the defendant. Thus, it is very clear that the conditions under which recognition and enforcement of a decision issued following a judgment in which the defendant has not been present are not to be refused. Having as a background the need to preserve, and very well, the right of the accused to be present in the course of the trial hearing, as a dimension of a fair trial, detected certain shortcomings which were, in the context of previous framework decisions, established a minimum set of common standards to enable the refusal to execute the European detection warrant and, at the same time, to ensure a reasonable margin of appreciation and implementation to the national legislature. The Government also takes advantage of the presentation of this proposal to clarify — and, in my view, some aspects of the current Portuguese law, in particular as regards the distribution of competences between the issuing authority and the implementing authority of the European arrest warrant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u16	With the same preamble, i.e. that of deepening the principle of mutual recognition, the following initiative, Bill No 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), refers to the judicial decisions made before the proceedings are carried out. The legal arrangements for issuing, recognising and monitoring are now at issue, i.e. the monitoring of the implementation of co-operation measures as an alternative to preventive detention and, of course, the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of non-compliance with these measures. In other words, a person resident in a Member State who is tried in criminal proceedings in another Member State may be supervised by the authorities of the State where he is residing while awaiting trial. Thus, it is the State of residence to control the movement of the defendants by applying measures different from the preventive prison, in a fair balance of interests and values present. The basis — which, of course, we welcome and welcome — is essentially based on the need to reduce the application of restraint measures when it comes to proceedings in another Member State, other than that of residence, thus promoting the use of alternative measures to preventive detention in line with safeguarding the principle of presumption of innocence. Without prejudice to a very positive assessment, I believe that it will be necessary to consider some warnings contained in the opinions, in particular with regard to clarifying the applicable cohesion measures, in particular with regard to the issue of residence and electronic surveillance. Finally, the Government presents to us a more complex proposal for legislation, which sets out the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification, and also transposes a framework decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between the Member States. With the proposal, it seeks to ensure better systematization, as has already been mentioned, and characterization of the lines of action and organization of criminal identification and criminal identification services, and it is also necessary to adapt the regulatory standards for issuing certificates for particular purposes to the current requirements on accessible information content and information exchange between public entities, creating simpler procedures and with techniques, of course, more effective. in a more general analysis of the structure and purposes of the scheme to be implemented, it is necessary to recognize its adequacy and need, not only in the perspective of the obligations arising from the Framework Decisions, but also, and not less important, the purposes of knowledge of the criminal background and its adaptation to the new technologies, as regards the forms of access and issue of the certificates themselves. Within the time limits available to me, I would like to highlight the following: with regard to the content of criminal registration certificates required by natural persons for employment purposes or for the pursuit of profession or activity in Portugal, the contents of decisions made by courts of another Member State or of third States are also included in the criminal register. I would like to point out as something very positive and innovative the amendment made to exclude the possibility of non-translation. I repeat again, for us, it means very positive the possibility of excluding non-transscription in respect of crimes against freedom and sexual self-determination, and the mention expressed is made to the crimes provided for in Chapter V, Title I, of Book II of the Criminal Code. Having said this, I allow myself, in this principle, and because they are not covered, to point out a warning: that of the need to consider the inclusion in this same regime of non-transscription of domestic violence and ill-treatment. There are undoubtedly crimes which generate greater social alarm and which, even by their configuration, justify this specific regime of exclusion from the possibility of non-transcrimination. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, Secretary of State : If the importance of the initiatives is indisputable, it is no less important to highlight the generalised consensus regarding the importance of the initiatives. There are criticisms, it is natural, because these are complex issues, but still in general, and recognizing that certain matters require more attention than others, these are essentially the right points that come to us from the opinions we have received. In some cases there were only systematic agreements or even legislated corrections, which we not only took due account of, as we are sure that they will be duly weighted in the field of specialty. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u17	I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe for an intervention by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u18	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is in this debate that three proposals for government law aimed at transposition into the national legal order of a significant set of framework decisions of the European Union adopted within the Council on justice and home affairs. As everyone who is listening to us has already realized, this is an eminently technical and legal matter, with some complexity, with some aridity in the discussion—a well-registered agenda item on Friday morning, given that it is not of the most striking subjects for public opinion, as we all understand—but that, in any case, is important. With regard to these proposals, it should be pointed out that there are a number of opinions which appear from the preparatory work available and which have been made available at the stage prior to the drafting of the proposals and, of course, that it is important that this House of the Republic, in the context of its work in the field of expertise, confirm these opinions, as is its duty. In other words, those entities that have been consulted can check whether the final texts of the bills essentially correspond to the objections they have raised, although it should be noted that there were no very significant objections to these bills. There are a number of entities, referred to in the preamble, which have also spoken, but we are not aware of the content of their opinions. With regard to the National Data Protection Commission, which has been raised here by Mr António Gameiro, it is necessary to assess whether the Assembly of the Republic should not, where it is considered to be useful and, from a legal point of view, it is necessary to hold this hearing, so that in the specialized work the contributions of this entity can be effectively collected, which will be perfectly possible to do in good time. There will not be here the problem of an excessive delay in this discussion, especially since the framework decisions we are transposing are of 2009, it has already been five years and can therefore take another or two months to ensure that transposition is adequate and that everything is actually done with respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. In fact, it is a concern which is expressed in the preamble and which has also now been expressed in the speech of the Minister of Justice. We all know the importance of judicial cooperation at the level, I would say, Europe, but not only at the international level. Given the transnationality of crime, of course, that judicial cooperation mechanisms and also police are important at all levels — in this case, we are dealing with judicial cooperation, essentially — but it is also important that fundamental values be safeguarded. Therefore, the guarantee of fundamental rights enshrined in the Portuguese Constitution, especially when it comes to problems relating to the freedom of persons and the application of measures which are held in custody of liberty—which is, in fact, a matter dealt with either in the proposal for a law on the European arrest warrant or in the proposal for a law on enforcement of coercive measures other than preventive detention—and an appropriate mechanism for the monitoring of such measures not only by the State in which the proceedings are conducted but may be made by the State in which the defendant resides are important matters which must be regulated in order to safeguard fundamental rights of the defendants. Of course, we will have the opportunity to verify, on a point-by-point, the relevance of the proposed transposition and other legislative measures, which, in particular with regard to the criminal registration, are proposed here. in the first reading that preceded this discussion in general and the drawing up of committee reports, there was already an opportunity to understand the fundamental principles of what is proposed here, but it is a complex matter, either from a technical point of view, or from the point of view of safeguarding fundamental rights, there is a need for a careful discussion on the speciality for which we are fully available, making use of the contribution of judicial operators who have a very thorough view of the complexity of these matters. In the coming months, we will certainly have the opportunity to do a thorough work on this subject and, in due course, to approve the legislation implementing the framework decisions which are at issue to the national legal order. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u19	The next intervention is the Left Block. Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u20	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In advance of this debate on Friday morning, perhaps to note that, at least from our point of view, in a European Union that has less and less meaning for citizens and citizens, this queue will be focusing around its security area and this trend towards a increasingly uniform criminal framework. however, this is a note of context, I must say that we do not have much to oppose the first two legal proposals presented here by the Minister of Justice. In other words, as regards Bill No 271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) on the first amendment to the European arrest warrant, which has been, as we well know, a subject of deep reflection — the recognition of the principle of mutual recognition as regards the absence of the defendant in trial is a matter on which we obviously have no objection to put, in the framework in which it is enshrined in the bill — or in the proposal for law No 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) on the recognition and supervision of coercive measures in the context of alternative prison measures. however, I would like to leave some notes on Bill No 274 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) concerning the legal system of criminal identification, amending Law No 57 / 98 and all subsequent legislative amendments and at the same time transposing to the domestic legal order Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA of the Council, as the other and previous proposals of law. And we are talking about three framework decisions that relate to the year 2009. in this context, this transposition is related to the reorganization and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between the Member States. However, the criminal record is subject to substantial changes that deserve us some thought. It shall be organised by a central computerized file, responding to technological advances, and the criminal identification services shall have the competence of the organisation and functioning of the criminal register, the register of cases, the register of fingerprints of convicted defendants, the special record of decisions communicated under the same Framework Decision which is the target of transposition and, at the same time, the registration of educational protective measures, according to the legal framework in force. If the opinions we know are unanimous in recognizing that there is significant progress in the systematization of the legal framework of the criminal register and if there is an agreement on the transposition of the Framework Decision which I have already mentioned, there is, however, a doubt that, I think, remains, whether we have the human, technical and budgetary resources necessary for all this amendment of the legal framework. I think it is a requirement for clarification to know, first of all, whether reality supports all the legislative amendment enshrined in this bill. Secondly, we believe that the observations and recommendations made by the National Data Protection Commission deserve careful attention and, in this sense, we want to declare our commitment that we will take them for our part. First, as regards the deadlines for the retention of records, amended deadlines from two to five years, without justification, are recognised, this amendment has been considered excessive and we also believe that this is so. On the other hand, as regards the provision of access to the fingerprint file, when the criminal record to which they are associated has already ceased (and this is not something else we are talking about), by the judicial or police authority, and I quote, «in the field of criminal investigation or criminal investigation», it is objectively considered a diversion of purpose, even proposing the elimination of this rule of the bill. It seems to us an extremely sensitive matter, which we will take on during the debate on the subject. while recognising the need to limit regular authorisations as provided for in Articles 8. is 38. that of the proposed law, there remains a certain stupefaction as regards the openness recognized in Article 10 ( 6 ). the, because it opens up the possibility of requiring the holder a criminal registration certificate for the purposes of assessment of suitability. This assessment of suitability seems to us, according to the wording which is too open, too misleading to remain in the final formulation. from our point of view, numerous warnings are also put forward by the Supreme Council itself. I would like to note that the requirement for a certificate for the exercise and initiation of the activity or profession creates confusion in services and ambiguity which, from our point of view, is to avoid, beyond this open statement, creating the possibility for us to understand that now anyone can request a criminal record to assess the suitability of not knowing who. This seems extremely worrying to us and, in this sense, recognizing the steps taken, all these issues which, in our view, are quite sensitive will deserve, on our part, proposals for amendments in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u21	For an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mr António Gameiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u22	Madam President, Minister for Justice, you have not answered my question, but you have until the end of the debate so that you can return to the subject and, in a way, correct what you have said here. Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The transposition of the three framework decisions of the European Union that we are debating today is part of the European policy set out in the Treaty of Lisbon on the objective of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, which necessarily implies a strengthening of the development of a European judicial culture based on the primacy of European law and the unity of the Community legal system. Thus, Bill No. 271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) assumes the right of the accused to be present in the trial in accordance with Article 6. that of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and makes several amendments, which we consider very important, to the instruments in force, with regard to the European arrest warrant and to the common specific rules for refusing the recognition and enforcement of a decision made in the absence of the defendant. at the same time, drafting and clarification of certain aspects of Law No 65 / 2003 on the distribution of competences between issuing and implementing authorities are introduced. The Socialist Party generally agrees with its content. in this debate, we also focus on the principle of mutual recognition, as a fundamental element and touchstone in judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the European Union. The European Union has, in the Treaty of Lisbon, laid down this principle by implementing a pillar for the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, which justifies, and well, the proposal for law No 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to decisions on control measures alternative to preventive detention. Thus, the transposition of this Framework Decision reinforces the protection of the general public, allowing a person resident in a Member State to be accompanied and supervised by the authorities of the State in which he lives, pending trial. Thus, the right to freedom and presumption of innocence is strengthened, moving away, where appropriate, the preventive detention and the more equal treatment of the defendants throughout the European area. We agree, in general, with this bill, under the penalty of, in the field of specialty, it needs perhaps improvements. However, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards Bill No 274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) which transposes Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between the Member States and which repeals Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August, it raises numerous reservations and doubts which must and can be clarified in the significant improvement of this diploma. This diploma, like another one which will be the subject of debate here today in the plenary today,'makes mucosa ears' of the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission, since the Government has forgotten to request it, when now, within this legislative process in the Assembly, this entity is alerting to various shortcomings, errors and omissions. First, the Government does not justify, nor does it understand the need for the time limit for the preservation of records, the registration of customs and the dactyloscopic file, to go from two to five years after the cancellation of the registration, when the two-year period is more than enough and this extension of the deadline constitutes an increased risk of undue access to information that legally no longer has legal effectiveness and whose knowledge can be very penalizing to the citizen. Therefore, this could arouse little interest in public opinion, but it should not. This is a central debate in democracy, it is a debate by the rule of law on what is the protection of each person's life reserve and personal data. Secondly, the continued access by the competent authorities for criminal investigation and investigation of criminal proceedings to the fingerprint file raises numerous doubts, as well as to the National Data Protection Commission. On the other hand, the question of the purpose for which the criminal registration certificate is issued should be clarified because it cannot, by means of the criminal registration, want, as the law requires, with the current wording, the assessment of the suitability of a citizen. Now, the suitability of a citizen may have a record in the criminal register and that cannot call into question the suitability of the citizen. in another dimension, the exchange of criminal background information with third States should be justified by its urgency and by the defence of the rule of law and internal security. Finally, this proposal is insufficient, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as it does not deal with central matters of a diploma of this nature, namely: the form of communication of the information of the courts; which fingerprints are collected; how information is obtained by the services on the death of the holder; from where the decisions in the criminal register cease to apply; how access by the various authorities provided for in Article 8 is effective. o criminal registration; etc. in this regard, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group cannot follow this bill, hoping that, in the field of debate in the specialty, there is real openness to greatly improve this insufficient proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u23	Before giving the floor to Mr. João Lobo, for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, I would like to inform the House that a delegation from the Angolan National Assembly, headed by the respective Secretary-General, Dr. Pedro Nery, is attending the session for whom I would like to congratulate. [[General applause, stand up.]] For an intervention, Mr. João Lobo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u24	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bank I join in cannot fail to welcome these proposals of law aimed at improving, harmonizing and integrating our legal and judicial system with the European judicial area in which we are integrated, and at the same time complying with the fundamental guarantees and principles, which are also a fundamental concern of the European Union and the Portuguese State, to increase the guarantees of defence of the defendant in criminal proceedings. with regard to these proposals, I cannot fail to mention here the position of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy regarding the application of the principle of mutual recognition on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention. It is said that the correct application of the Framework Decision on the European control decision by all Member States will allow suspects of European arrest warrants to return quickly to their country of residence while awaiting trial in another Member State. It will also prevent long periods of preventive detention in a foreign country following the execution of the European arrest warrant and before the trial. These are concrete measures which, in the pursuit of the increase in defence of the defendant, aim to serve in particular European citizens. Therefore, Mrs Minister, the Government's proposals aim in practice to make sense of what are the ways in which fundamental rights are guaranteed. in this measure, they are laudable and deserve, without prejudice to any improvement that, in the case of specialty, can be justified. However, as referred to in the opinions, they are correctly transposed, they are shown to be properly increased and conformed to constitutional principles, in particular with Article 33(5). the ; they obey Article 6. that of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union ; they correspond to the highest levels when it is certain that under the Treaty on European Union only minimum levels should be observed. Therefore, they are a cause for satisfaction of this bench, a cause for satisfaction of the Ministry, which you represent, are a reason for congratulating the European citizens, as well as the Community bodies, who are concerned that the failure to transpose the Framework Decision may not be harmonised and that it does not meet the Union's objectives, which must also be achieved in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u26	Therefore, Madam Minister, we, on the basis of the Social Democratic Party, welcome these measures, because we are sure that, in the realisation of the European area of freedom, security and justice, measures that exceed the minimum limits, are measures that conform to the maximum standards of these guarantees of defence at the criminal level and are measures that, in particular, allow a citizen, in his daily life, to be monitored and controlled by the judicial bodies of the State where he lives, but with the guarantees of an independent body itself, of course after his activity and the perception of the duties to which he is subject. We will therefore follow these measures and these bills. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u27	You have the floor for an intervention by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, what is involved in this matter is the strengthening of rights, freedoms and guarantees within the framework of judicial cooperation. Secondly, with regard to the opinions, I want to say that the opinions are all positive, if they look at them. Thirdly, I would like to say to Mrs Cecilia Honorio that we have already guaranteed budgeting for the purposes of these adjustments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u29	The Bureau no longer registers, and therefore the joint discussion of the proposals of lein. 271, 272 and 274 / XII is concluded ( 4 ). ( a). We have taken a general view of Bill No 273 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 73 / 2009 of 12 August establishing the conditions and procedures to be applied to ensure interoperability between information systems of criminal police bodies, and the second amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Law on the Organisation of Criminal Investigation. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u30	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, basically what this bill deals with is the access of the judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal investigation judges to the so-called "IPIC" ( Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information ). It makes no sense, from our point of view, that security forces can access this information platform and the magistrates cannot do so. Of course, with respect to the rights, freedoms and guarantees in this area, I should like to draw up these four proposals here. There is, of course, the question of the degree of access and in which terms it is accessed. Can any magistrate access these platforms? No, you can't. It may be the criminal action holder and the criminal investigation judge who holds the trial. On the other hand, can a justice officer access? In general, not only by delegation and co-judgment of the respective judicial judge or the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is therefore a very simple proposal. in a rule of law, it would not be understandable that the security forces could access information with criminal relevance and the judiciary could not. It is therefore a matter of strengthening the separation of powers. It is therefore to strengthen the autonomy and independence of these same judiciarys. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u31	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u32	Mr President, Minister of Justice, the question which I would like to put at the head of this brief debate has to do with the following: this proposal is, in essence, a proposal that contains personal data, and therefore there is a scrupulously need for the protection of these same personal data. It happens that just here the Government has been omitted from the request for prior opinion by the National Data Protection Commission, as the National Data Protection Commission itself recognizes. But 1. the Commission has overcome the Government's gap. However, the conclusions of this opinion, which, at the initiative of Parliament, derive from the position of the National Data Protection Commission, lead to the fact that this proposal needs to be worked out deeply to bring its text into line with the underlying guarantees I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u33	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u34	in this regard, I ask the Minister — and I ask her for a clear answer — the Government is available to bring this proposal down to 1 without a vote. the Commission, so that we can all make the necessary time for the text to be properly improved and in the light of the recommendations of the National Data Protection Commission? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u35	With no further requests for clarification, you have the floor to answer, Mrs Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u36	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, the Security Office has requested the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission — in fact, this opinion is referred to in the explanatory statement of the proposal, as you may see. Therefore, the question of the non-application for an opinion does not arise. in the explanatory statement, that same opinion is referred to, as you may see. On the other hand, as you know, and recovering a little from the concern of the previous debate, opinions can be asked at all times. But there is this opinion, Mr President. With regard to the question of the availability of the government so that there is some time before the vote in general on this project, it exists, Mr Deputy, but not much. The question is very simple: every time there is a problem that affects the judiciary the truth is that there is always a problem of bad perception by the Socialist Party. in this case, it is extremely simple: to intervene, in access to information, what security forces can already do by judges. So, Mr. Jorge Lacão, I believe I have responded to your concerns. There is availability, yes, but not much, because we will not delay this issue in such a way that it slips into a delaying maneuver so that the magistrates do not have access to the PIIC ( Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information). [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u37	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more registered speakers, we can conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u38	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u39	Mr João Oliveira is taking part in an intervention. Did I finish well?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u40	You have concluded very well, Madam President. I was hoping to hear some arguments from the parties that support the Government on these proposals, but there is no problem giving our opinion on them already.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u41	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u42	Madam President, Minister of Justice, it is true that it is not the responsibility of this government, but of the previous Government of the Socialist Party, that the 2009 debates could be recovered, when the amendments to both the Criminal Investigation Organization Act and the establishment of the Integrated Criminal Information System (SIIC ) and the Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information were adopted. It is that if we recover the 2009 debates we realize that we can bring this discussion to a close. In 2009 we identified this problem that we are dealing with, with a characterization and, moreover, with Mr. Mr Nuno Magalhães and Mr Fernando Negrão at the time did not go far. This was a problem of governmentization of the Integrated Criminal Information System, which completely removed the judiciary from the control of criminal information, obviously referring even to a secondary role the Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information. Therefore, the central problem is that of the governance of the Integrated Criminal Information System, which has at its top the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, which is directly appointed by the Prime Minister and therefore there is a complete departure from the judiciarys from the control of this system. This is the first basic mistake, and this is a fundamental issue. Why? Because it is this organic structure that results in these problems. It didn't take long until the magistrates started complaining that they couldn't have access to criminal information that the criminal police had. Why? Because access to magistrates is limited and the participation of magistrates throughout the system is limited. Mr President, Minister for Justice, this problem has to be solved. It is true that the proposed law that the Minister is presenting today does not intend to cover this fundamental problem; she wants to solve the problem of access of magistrates to criminal information, does not intend to solve the problem of the organic structure of the Integrated Criminal Information System. However, the problem of access of magistrates to criminal information, which has to be resolved, I do not know if anyone is going to have a disagreeable position on this option today, but it is obvious that the magistrates have to have access to the information that the system already has — it cannot go beyond a few concerns in this area, which they have to be present. I'm going to give examples of some. Firstly, regarding the problem of defining complementary databases, we know that this Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information ensures the articulation in access to data contained in other databases. Why are complementary databases not clearly identified? This is also a concern expressed by the National Data Protection Commission. To comply with the principle of legality, it is necessary to identify such databases, because they must also be created on the basis of a principle of legality. Therefore, there is not even the problem of losing a reference to databases that can be created. Second question: why are no specific criteria or conditions defined for access to these complementary databases? For example, the existence of a positive result in a first research that is done in the Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information or the need for research is made from research keys that are directly related to the criminal process that is under the protection of the magistrate, to avoid abusive access to data and misuse of its use. Mrs. Minister, another concern has to do with access, with the degrees and limits that the Minister has already mentioned today. This access must necessarily be restricted and marked on the basis of the principles of legality, which ultimately stem from the principles guiding the organization of criminal investigation. There must be a concern about the control of access to data and the subsequent use of data. Madam Minister, in this regard, we have a great concern about the reference that is made to the justification for criminal prevention. It is that the justification for criminal prevention is very generic, which covers both the competences of the Central Department of Research and Criminal Acão ( Central Department of Investigation and Acão Criminal ) in the area of economic and financial crime, in particular in relation to money laundering — the CDIP has competences of criminal prevention — and covers competences related to criminal police bodies. These are very distinct competences that cannot be treated as if they were the same. Therefore, we believe that the requirement to demonstrate these criminal prevention purposes is a minimum criterion to ensure access to these databases. I have spent much of my time, so I will conclude before you warn me. Mr Minister for Justice, there are aspects that are of great concern, particularly because, by challenging access to personal data, they call into question the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, which are necessarily considered in this law. Therefore, we hope that, in the field of expertise, all these concerns can be taken into account and overcome, so that, as happened with regard to the laws of 2009, we will not be discussing any problems that could be solved in this legislative process again for five years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u43	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u44	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State : Bill No 273 / XII ( 4 ) a ) reports on the Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information, the well-known IPIC, framed by the Law of the Criminal Investigation Organization and Law No 73 / 2009, which regulates it, and therefore I also think it is worth returning to this debate in June 2009. On the proposal for a law, it is recognised that the amendments are not in substantial number. In any case, they deserve some reflection. Firstly, by devoting access to complementary databases, in our understanding there is no reason why complementary databases should not be identified. Secondly, the reservation provided for in those two laws of the title of the proceedings in the access of judges is broken. It is true that the Minister is absolutely right: it was only necessary for criminal policy bodies to have access to this information and for judges to have it conditionally! however, it remains relevant that we can make the necessary reflection on the forms of access and cumulative conditions. from our point of view, the National Data Protection Commission sets out two cumulative conditions for research that seem reasonable to us and that we also want to take part in debate in the specialty. As we are sure that the purpose of leadership and criminal investigation is safeguarded, knowing the competences inherent in the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is also true that our concern continues to be the same as ever. All the conditions for access to information and for the investigation of criminals must be met, but we must be able to prevent all forms of abuse, so this debate must be serious in the field of expertise. We also still do not understand exactly what this access by the judicial authorities to criminal prevention means. This prevention is so open that it justifies debate. On the Platform itself, I would like to safeguard some questions, from the very outset, of its own constraints, raised by the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, its under-utilization, the doubts we still have about the confidence it creates to the different actors and their platform spirit in promoting criminal investigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u46	On the 2009 debate, I would like to remind you of two aspects. First, a very decent majority member then questioned whether the legal bases of the information systems of the various criminal police bodies would be appropriate. It is a question that persists today, for so many years. Secondly, on the part of the CDS-PP, there was such a pertinent doubt: « how will the National Data Protection Commission, which has so few resources, need at least have access to an annual report? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members of the majority, it is always interesting to see you on the other hand, on the side of whom the government supports, but the doubts that they have put today remain all the relevance and of course no longer refer to the debate on the governmentalization of the coordination model that we have discussed and which supports the PIIC itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u47	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u48	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and regardless of the many questions, certainly relevant and relevant, which have been brought to this debate, would begin by stressing, as he points out, the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor, that the proposed law received from the Ministry of Justice, to comment and to present suggestions, reproduces the text of the proposals submitted by the representative of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, within the framework of the Monitoring Group of the Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information and that this group unanimously subscribed, which is not a particular fact, is not irrelevant. Secondly, the first statement by the Minister of Justice has been made very clear — which is at issue here: it is to improve the information sharing system between criminal police bodies, research bodies and judges, ensuring greater interoperability between these systems. I would like to stress that this idea of interoperability, as it has also passed through this debate, is not absolutely new. It is true that we have been discussing these matters for many years. It is true that for many and many years we have been talking about the deficiencies in cooperation between research and criminal police bodies. It is true that for many years we have spoken in poor sharing of information and access to information. And it is true that this proposal we have is a positive step towards ensuring that cooperation can be guaranteed. The proposal extends, as has been explained here, and well, access to judges—not under any circumstances, but to the holder of the process and the investigation itself, and it is important that this be clear and, in my view, it is easy to understand—and it also extends access to other platforms. Mr João Oliveira — who, like Mrs Cecília Honorio, knows much of the good doctrine produced, among others, by Mr Nuno Magalhães over the years on this subject, which he has studied deeply — which platforms and databases we have reached. It is worth noting that what is at stake is never speculative police information, that is, it is not a matter that is under speculation by criminal investigation. It is a matter of fact, it is records, such as car records, civil identification data records, file records, are those records that are concerned. And the platforms are in huge numbers. Therefore, trying to limit them would have a restrictive nature, which is obviously not what it is intended to do. I would say, in conclusion, that this matter allows, of course, this access, to extend this access, which seems important to us. however, it never allows access to everyone, at all times and at all times, which is also relevant, but from our point of view much depends — that is the central issue with which I end — on the establishment of an effective, true and effective culture of sharing. As long as we do not introduce this culture of sharing this problem, it will never be fully solved. We will still have time to reflect on some of the issues raised here by the opposition parties. We are available for this debate. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u49	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Simões Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u50	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The framework of threats and risks to the safety of citizens, for the normal functioning of democratic institutions, obliges the State to create appropriate tools to prevent and combat such threats and risks. It is in this framework that the Government presents this bill to us, an initiative that essentially has two objectives. On the one hand, it aims to allow access by the criminal police and competent judicial authorities through the Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information, the IPIC, to complementary databases, both administrative and police, and which aims to allow it to be possible to search matters in an integrated way, through a single entry, avoiding differentiated access and authentication for each database that is intended to be consulted. On the other hand, and I would like to stress the importance of providing access to the information contained in the integrated criminal investigation system by the competent judicial authorities - the Public Prosecutor's Office and the criminal investigation judges - within the framework of criminal investigation, coordination and criminal prevention, as well as the practice of judicial acts in the investigation and investigation phases. in our opinion, these amendments are justified and appropriate for the purposes that are intended to be achieved in the context of research and crime prevention. It is our conviction, in fact, that this proposal reinforces the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the independence of the criminal investigation judges, as we had already defended in the debate held in 2009 on this subject, which has been mentioned here. The opinions we have already heard of, in particular, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Data Protection Commission, reinforce the importance of this legislative amendment for the investigation and prevention of crime. Let me remind you of the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, whose rapporteur is Dr. Conde Rodrigues, who was Secretary of State for Justice of the Socialist Party. It can be read in the opinion that this amendment which is now being discussed should already be included in the original proposal. I wouldn't stop pointing that out. however, I also wanted to tell the ladies and gentlemen. Members that this majority, unlike the Socialist Party in 2009, is available to promote a large area of consensus in this area. Despite this availability, I would like to make it very clear that we will not accept the main guidelines being put in question, particularly with regard to access by judges to the Criminal Information Exchange Platform. We are available for consensus, but we are not available to call into question the access of the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the criminal investigation judges to the IPIC. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u51	Long live consensus!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u52	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Minister of Justice to ask you a very clear question once again. Having the Minister of Justice stated that what is to be achieved is the guarantee of access by the holder, in particular the criminal action, and the investigating judge to the proceedings he holds, I ask him the following: where was this not already possible with the law in force? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u54	Since the Minister of Justice had signed up to make an intervention, I think she can take advantage of it to respond to Mr Jorge Lacão. You have the floor, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u55	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, the answer to your question is very simple. There is a principle of strict legality and, therefore, if it is not strictly provided for in the law, there are doubts which then, of course, benefit from criminal activities, often. Secondly, there is all freedom and all goodwill to deepen, but there is none to distort. from our side, there is all, all, the whole opening to deepen, but none to detour. Let's be clear. Why aren't the databases listed? Because it's impossible to do it. Databases are created every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u56	Every day? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u57	'Every day' is, of course, a form of expression. But as databases are often created, if they were all listed in the law — CNPD's second opinion speaks of it — we would have to change the law whenever a basis was created to allow them access. Mr. João Oliveira, about working, let's go to it! You're absolutely right. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that we have every opportunity to deepen and none to distort, because this is the principle of the separation of powers, and that is serious. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u58	For a new intervention, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The law currently in force which regulates the conditions of use of the Platform, with regard to judicial authorities, states: « The competent judicial authorities may, at all times... » — "at all times" — "... and in respect of the proceedings of which they are holders, access the information contained in the integrated criminal information system ". It is clear, therefore, that if there is anything the government wants to do in this area, it is to break open doors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u61	in this sense, what has to be equally clear is that we reject entirely the insinuations resulting from a lack of political faith in this debate, when the Minister of Justice has insinuated that there are resistances on the side of the Socialist Party's bench to assume the possibility of access to the Platform by the judicial authorities. No, that's not what this is about! It is a matter of ensuring that the proposal corresponds to all the concerns expressed here in the various speeches of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. To make up the Minutes of this debate, I would like to mention these concerns: ‘The complementary databases which can be accessed through the IPIC should be explicitly indicated; Safeguards should be introduced as regards the possibility of research into complementary databases only following a positive hit in a concrete research and in relation to the information resulting from this research; access by the competent judicial authorities to any proceedings, including those not related to those having the ownership, coordination or direction, for generic criminal prevention purposes, should be restricted to the objective demonstration of the need to know; It should be the explicit law as to whether or not the judicial officers have access to the IPCC; The legal obligation should be introduced for a single number of identification of the crime process to be validated by the public prosecutor's system ». These are the conclusions of the National Data Protection Commission, which was rapporteur Dr. Luís Barroso.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u62	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u63	In view of this, it is very clear the truly constructive intention of the Socialist Party to achieve a consensus that dignifies us all in the compromise between the effectiveness of criminal action and the guarantee of the fundamental rights of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u64	With no further inscriptions, this item on the agenda is thus concluded, so we say goodbye to the Minister of Justice and to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality. We continue with the assessment of petition No 313 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by the National Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers, protesting against the privatization of TTCs. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We often value the petitions that are submitted to the Assembly of the Republic just because of its most essential meaning, which involves participation, mobilization and struggle of workers and populations in defence of concrete causes and their rights. Petitions are not an isolated act, they are a process of clarification, participation and intervention. It should be difficult for us to have a situation like that of this petition by the National Union of Workers of Mails and Telecommunications. This petition was actually translated into a contact from north to south of the country, mobilized by the Union, with the participation of autarchs, users and so many who throughout the country fought against the privatization of the Posts. The days of struggle, the concentration, the meetings, the moments of collection of signatures were numerous. And more than collecting signatures, they have gathered forces, support, convergences around this cause of defence of national interest. on the day that this petition was handed over to the President of the House, in our country there was a day of struggle for the workers of the Post Office, either of those who were on active, or of those who were already retired. on the eve, me and others were in Cabo Ruivo with the strike picket of the postal workers and witnessed that shameful act of the police forces. During the following day, we were with the workers, accompanying them on their march from the Restorers to the Land of Peace. The workers said very loudly that they would not give up fighting against the policy of national treason that the government was doing and that it continued to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u67	From here on, life has given reason to the CFP, the workers of the CTTs and all those who have fought and continue to fight against this policy of delivery and dismantling strategic sectors, sovereignty and national defence. From then on, the price of the tariff for blue mail rose 6, 38 % and for normal mail rose 12, 5 %. Now, another measure has been announced to increase the price of stamps and mail services. From then on, we have been watching the scandalous policy of favouring the private interests that have taken account of the Mails — Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank — and what has happened in the process of the Post Bank and the Citizens' Spaces Once again, there is a brutal increase in the prices in the postal services, the distribution of dividends of EUR 61 million, the increase in profits of 71 % compared to the previous year, contrasting with wage freeze and the attack on social works, the rights and interests of workers and users. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, life is making sense to the CFP. We want to greet the workers of the Post Office and all who fight against this policy of privatization, segmentation, dismantling and surrender of national sovereignty, because, as Brecht's poem states, "there are those who fight all life, and these are the indispensable ones". [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u68	Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Union of Mail Workers and Telecommunications submitted a petition to the Assembly of the Republic with 21 155 subscribers. The first word I want to leave on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group is to greet the petitioners for having exercised the right to petition and bring this issue back to discussion. The second note I want to leave has to do with the fact that the National Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers has submitted this petition with only one sentence and one manifestation of will: « Not to the privatization of TTCs! Do not keep on seeking. ” This claim is legitimate! This legitimacy is never at stake, but it is only and only against privatization, without adding to the petition any other reason or concern about the future of the company. But then let's talk about privatization. It must be said that, in the privatisation process, the Government has appointed an Eventual Commission for the Follow-up of the Privatization Process of TTCs, composed of three persons of great prestige and recognized merit, Prof. Cantiga Esteves, Dr. José Manuel Morais Cabral and Prof. Duarte Pitta Ferraz. This Monitoring Committee has made a very clear and unequivocal report on the rigor and quality of the privatisation process. And I quote what the report says in the first phase of privatization: « In line with the provisions of the Privatization Framework Law and other legislation published for the same purposes, following good practices of capital markets, as well as standards of transparency, rigour, exemption and impartiality aligned with the pursuit and better defense of the public and the State interest ». Clearly, the Committee on Follow-up gives a very positive note on how the process of privatization of TTCs has taken place. This is a very clear fact. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: in this same report — we are obliged to return to this report — the Committee on Monitoring says: « Privatization of TTCs is considered in the context of macroeconomic adjustment measures to comply with the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme agreed with the European Union, the IMF and the European Central Bank ». Clearly, this process of privatization was part of the Memorandum of Understanding and what we want to say here is that the process went well. The most important thing is that it runs well for the people, for those who enjoy the post, for the workers. It is a fundamental fact that there is a social peace in the company today because there is no negative news about the postal services, being the public service provided with more quality. That is, therefore, what is intended. Madam President, this petition comes at the right time and at a time when it is worth discussing, because the total privatisation phase has already taken place. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u70	Mr Paulo Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I greet the Union that promoted this petition, but also all those who subscribed to it. It was 21 155 Portuguese who submitted this petition and when they presented it they were right, as we have seen today, for everything we know about the process and how this privatisation went. Indeed, there was no reason to privatize CTTs at 100 %. The troika did not require best practices in most countries — about 27 countries in Europe do not have these services privatized, only two have privatized them at 100 %. The company did not need a strategic partner; the company did not need a partner to capitalize and grow—as we all know, the company has always grown and invested, in recent years, around 300 million euros without any problem; the company, as the government says, had qualified management and skilled and skilled workers; the company has presented, over the last 10 years, operational results, having released cash-flow in a value greater than that obtained in privatization, almost EUR 1000 million in the last 10 years; the company was making profits; the company distributes dividends; the company had no debt; the company, moreover, had bank deposits of EUR 550 million and no debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u73	...so taxpayers have never been called upon to run either for capital increases or for supplies, or for compensatory compensation. There was therefore no reason for their privatization; the only reason was ideological prejudice and the attack on the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u75	Yes, because Minister Pires de Lima's thesis that this privatization was done by naivety and by giving in to foreign interests probably was not the real reason. But if we talk about why we should also talk about how. And on the way I want to tell you that when this privatisation operation was launched there was not yet in force the law on safeguarding strategic interests, the legal regime applicable to the provision of postal services had been changed at the very end of the privatisation process, the concession bases were being changed at the very end of the privatisation process, there was no independent prior assessment allowing to be a reference to the privatisation process, the extensive historical heritage had not been evaluated, as well as the real estate, philatelic, museum and property rights, the Special Monitoring Commission was not appointed, there was no clear separation of interests, the financial advisors, at the same time, recommended to the Government the interest of intervals to be practised, but they bought unconditionally the lot of actions. I would just like to point out that there is no committee report on the facts. The banks that proposed the average selling value found that, after one year of privatisation, the value of the action increased by 100 %. In other words, the State was advised to sell the shares of this company for a value lower than that which the markets today pay for these shares, and the banks that advised that sale price were simultaneously the banks that bought the shares and kept the mandatory lot of shares in relation to the privatisation operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u76	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, the average value of the shares is about 100 % above the average value advised by banks in privatization. The State did not safeguard itself with a prior assessment. And the question that I leave is this: why did the State remain in the hands of the banks that made this proposal for assessment, which is completely inadequate, in the face of what is the price of the shares? A valuation of around 100 % clearly indicates that the price has been mislabelled by the State and that the interests of the State have not been safeguarded. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and thanking them for their opportunity to discuss this matter. Through the TTCs and the assessment we make of their privatization, we can assess the validity of the arguments put forward by a government that confuses economic policy with privatization. We might ask: Was it the debt that led the CTTs to be privatized? Was it the cost of keeping CTTs in the public sphere? No, no, no. The CTTs were profit-making and they had no debt. Were the European Commission's pressure to privatize TTCs? No, no, no. There is no rule that TTCs cannot be public, such as in most European countries or even in the United States. Was it to improve the services that the CTTs privatized? Was it to lower the prices that the CTTs privatized? No, no, no. The network has not increased, besides the proposal for network expansion was repeatedly plunged by ANACOM, prices have already risen in the past and will again rise in 2015, in a year when there is an inflation of almost zero. Therefore, we have the notion of rising tariff prices in Portugal. Have CTTs been privatized to increase the offer? No, no, no. The offer is equal and is not expected to increase until this company has promised to distribute 90 % of the profits. It's a company that doesn't invest because it distributes everything it earns. There is no money to improve services, except in the financial area. And that is why the CTTs were privatized, as if Portugal needed more than one bank or as if the Portuguese needed to receive e-mails in their mailboxes, as we all received, from the CTTs in partnership with Cetelem, to impinge Portuguese citizens' consumer credits. Now, is this what we need, instead of having a universal and public postal service? The CTTs were the door of the State all over the country, the institution in which pensioners rely to go to raise the pension, to pay the bills and which today impose credits on consumption with completely abusive interest by this country outside. Is that what we need CTTs for? To have another private bank, more financial services, more abuse of people, in the most remote places in this country, which do not have the ability to understand what is being sold to them? As for the profits that CTTs have had, it distributed EUR 60 million in 2014, compared with 2013. All very right, except for a reality: it was that in 2013 the TTCs were public. The company was privatized in November and the private had the profits of the entire year, which is 60 million, when they had the company a month ago. This was the privatization of TTCs. In 2015, the profits of 2014 are distributed — 66.25 million. What does this mean? In ten, 15 years, whoever bought the CTT will recover all the money he invested in dividends. For the Portuguese state there is nothing left, there will be no CTTs, there will be no money anywhere, it is over, the investment is over. Last question: who did the CTT pay these dividends to? Where's that money? Are you in Portugal? You're in Portuguese entrepreneurs? Where is he? To conclude, Madam President, I will read the names of those who stayed with the CTT dividends : Standard Life Investments, Artemis Investment Management, Kames Capital, UBS, JP Morgan, Allianz. These are the real institutions that have won with the privatization of TTCs. Now, here today, looking at what happened to the TTCs, we can see the essence of privatization, who wins and who actually loses with this government policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u80	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the National Trade Union of Workers of Mails and Telecommunications for the petition that brought to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, the privatisation process has been successfully completed and we understand that the best guarantee that workers can have for their future is, in fact, to have TTCs as a solid, viable company with the ability to grow, with the ability to finance themselves and to ensure universal public service, which, contrary to what the opposition here tends to imply, is not in any way a question. Mr. Paulo Campos told us that the troika did not tell us to privatize the CTTs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u82	I said 100 percent! Could not connect with
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u83	That's not true. But if the troika did not say, the Socialist Party said in March 2011 at the PEC. [[CDS-PP applause.]] So the Socialist Party even anticipated what, in fact, it signed and combined with the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u84	Read what's written there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u85	Read the honourable Member. You know why? Because coherence is also synonymous with credibility, which is very important. I would also like to say that, today, it is possible to make a balance sheet and to ask ourselves whether, in fact, there have been the dismissals which the opposition and the CFP mentioned here so much. No, there were no dismissals, and the workers are satisfied and in social peace. Were there any worse service rates? Are the CTT users and consumers more dissatisfied? No, they're more satisfied. With regard to the problem of territorial cohesion, do the populations of the interior, which the opposition here referred to, are more dissatisfied and have worsened access to the services provided by the TTCs? No, they are satisfied and the service continues to be assured.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u86	What is the basis for this investigation?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u87	In addition to continuing to grow, to remain viable, to continue to ensure the service that was necessary to ensure, none of the dramas that have been vaccinated here have happened. Therefore, the concerns concerning workers are guaranteed, the levels of service are guaranteed, there is indeed no reason to fear privatization. The TTCs operate in a regulated market, which is supervised, and this is a fundamental guarantee of the functioning of the economy, where, in our view, there must be more regulation on the part of the State than intervention. This is in addition to the fact that with the successful operation of privatization of TTCs, it has been demonstrated and proved that the use of capital markets is undoubtedly a way of having the costs of financing and the differential of access to financing between Portuguese and northern European companies. I therefore want to say that, despite what the opposition here has so vaticianized, the operation has been a success, the service continues to be assured and, indeed, an operation of which we must be proud. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u88	Mr Afonso Oliveira is still registered, although he has very little time available. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u89	Mr President, I have only signed up very quickly to say what is fundamental at this time. Mr Paulo Campos' intervention led me to speak for a very simple reason: he obliged us to remind him, at every moment, that he was a member of the former Government of the Socialist Party for six years. For six years it was the guardianship of the CTTs,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Paulo Campos.]] ...in the context of this petition is the rapporteur, and he has therefore accompanied the entire procedure. It was part of the Government which signed the Memorandum of Understanding, where the privatisation of TTCs was planned,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u90	...and come here to say that it is an ideological prejudice of this government to advance with privatization? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Paulo Campos.]] Sir, I will try to be very careful with the words. I am not going to tell you that « you must have a tin! », because it doesn't look good, but at the moment it needed a little more decorating. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u91	A bit of decor, a bit of memory and there is someone from this bench, the Socialist Party, Mr. Deputies, who tells you that this is not the way politics is done. And it is not just memory, correction is needed, good sense is needed and this debate needs to be raised. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u92	And elevation was what was missing to the PS, for a very simple reason: the process went well, the privatization went well, the financial cash also went well to Portugal and the Portuguese and Mr. Paulo Campos, being responsible, as I said in the previous government, for the protection of the CTTs, comes here to make this kind of defense. It's incomprehensible, that's not how politics is made, unless...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u93	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u94	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, it is incomprehensible, this is not how politics is made, unless you use an old maxim that sometimes the PS seems to like to use, and that it is a maximum a bit strange: "I am this opinion or the opposite, if necessary! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Protests by PS Paulo Campos.]] That is what you just did here, that is, you defended before you should support privatization and now you are defending it as a politically ideological prejudice. It doesn't make any sense, sir! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u95	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u96	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u97	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u98	And what is the basis for the appeal, Mr. Commissioner?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u99	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u100	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u101	Madam President, I will bring two documents to the Bureau, the Memorandum of Troika and the stability and growth programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u102	The PECs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u103	... where the partial and minority privatization of TTCs was envisaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u104	And the PECs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u105	It's registered, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u106	I therefore ask the President that the documents be distributed to the parliamentary groups and that they be made known to Mr Afonso Oliveira, who expressed total ignorance,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... as regards the 100 % privatisation and minority and partial privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u107	You are registered and informed, Mr. Mrs. Members, we conclude the debate on petition No 313 / XII ( 3. (a ) — Submitted by the National Trade Union of Post and Telecommunications Workers, protesting against the privatization of TTCs, corresponding to the third point of our agenda. They are also scheduled on the agenda for today, but without time for discussion, the motions for resolutions 96 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Tunisia for Defence Cooperation, signed on 18 January 2013 in Tunis, and 100 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amendment to Article 38. the Statute of the World Tourism Organization, which was adopted in 2007 in 17. the General Assembly of this Organization ( Resolution 521 ( XVII ) ), held in Cartagena of India. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote, which, in fact, coincides with the end of our work and with the scheduled time. I would ask the services to activate the electronic system to proceed with the verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 209 Members, to whom the PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte and José de Matos Rosa and PS Deputies João Soares, Luísa Salgueiro, Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, Miranda Calha, Pedro Nuno Santos, Sérgio Sousa Pinto e Vieira da Silva, making a total of 218 Members present, so there is a quorum of deliberations. We begin by voting, in general, Bill No. 752 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of PS, BE, The Greens and PSD Members Christian Simon Ribeiro, Monica Ferro, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho (PSD) and abstentions from PSD Deputies Ángela Guerra, Crisóvão Norte, João Plata, Maria José Castelo Branco, Maria Paula Cardoso and Odete Silva, from PS Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão and from the CDS-PP Deputies João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 755 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted medicinal products ( LDCs ), by the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP, votes in favour of PS, BE, The Greens and PSD Members Christian Simon Ribeiro, Monica Ferro, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho (PSD) and abstentions from PSD Deputies Ángela Guerra, Crisóvão Norte, João Plata, Maria José Castelo Branco, Maria Paula Cardoso and Odete Silva and from PS Deputies Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u108	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u109	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u110	Madam President, it is only to announce that Mr João Portugal and I will present a statement of vote on the bill that has just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u111	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1110 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by strengthening primary health care close to populations ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1111 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by strengthening and valuing health professionals in the National Health Service ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1242/ XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of the primary care network and the hiring of professionals required for the normal functioning of the National Health Service ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1244 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthening of the National Health Service ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1241 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen primary health care ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1189 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the use of registered mail in the calls for IEFP and ISS, IP, to prevent the cutting of social benefits ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1240 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends support for the candidature of Madeira's yeasts to the heritage of humanity ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1233 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Implementation of the recommendations of the National Education Council on the legal framework for special education ( BE ). The PS calls for a joint vote on points 1, 3 and 4 and the PSD calls for a separate vote on points 2 and 5. We will therefore adopt the following methodology: firstly we will vote together on points 1, 3 and 4, then on point 2 and lastly on point 5. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we began by voting together on points 1, 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 1233 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2 of the same diploma. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP, the EPO and the Greens and with abstentions from the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 5 of that draft resolution No 1233 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mr Bravo Nico of the PS signalled a request for a word to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u112	Madam President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this last draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u113	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1235 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In defence of inclusive public school for all ( PCP ). The PS calls for the following method of voting: first and together, points 1 and 4 and then, and also together, points 2 and 3. I wonder if everyone agrees. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we begin by voting together on points 1 and 4 of that diploma. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We turn to the joint vote on points 2 and 3 of the same draft resolution No 1235 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1237 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the revision of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 11 September, ensuring the continuity of the school course in secondary education for students with special educational needs ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1238 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment of Ordinance No 275 -A / 2012 of 7 January, in particular with regard to the composition of classes, the distribution of the hourly burden between school and institution and the impact of its premises on the effective integration of pupils into post-school life ( PS ). The CFP requests the separate vote on point 1 and then the joint vote on the remaining points. I wonder if there are any objections. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we begin by voting on point 1 of that diploma. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The following is the joint vote on the remaining points of draft resolution No 1238 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u114	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u115	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u116	Madam President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u117	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are generally voting on Bill No 271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JHA of 26 February 2009 amending Framework Decisions No 2002 / 584 / JAI, 2005 / 214 / JAI, 2006 / 783 / JAI, 2008 / 909 / JAI and 2008 / 947 / JAI, and strengthening the procedural rights of persons and promoting the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the defendant. The CFP has asked the Bureau to vote in general on this diploma in conjunction with the two proposed laws following the same area of criminal law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u118	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u119	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u120	Madam President, we shall be able to vote together on the proposals for lein. 271 and 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and leave the proposals of lein. 273 and 274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) to vote separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u121	Mrs. Deputy, that's what we're going to do. It is the least common denominator in this method. Let us then vote, in general and together, on the proposals of lein.o 271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 65 / 2003 of 23 August in accordance with Framework Decision No 2009 / 299 / JHA of 26 February 2009 amending Framework Decisions No 2002 / 584 / JAI, 2005 / 214 / JAI, 2006 / 783 / JAI, 2008 / 909 / JAI and 2008 / 947 / JAI, and strengthening the procedural rights of persons and promoting the application of the principle of mutual recognition as regards decisions made in the absence of the defendant, and 272 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for issuing, recognising and monitoring the implementation of decisions on coercive measures as an alternative to preventive detention and the delivery of a natural person between Member States in the event of non-compliance with the measures imposed by transposing Framework Decision No 2009 / 829 / JAI of 23 October 2009. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The two diplomas are down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 274 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the general principles governing the organisation and functioning of criminal identification by transposing to the domestic legal order Framework Decision No 2009 / 315 / JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information drawn from the criminal register between Member States and repealing Law No 57 / 98 of 18 August 2009. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall move on to the general vote on Bill No 273 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 73 / 2009 of 12 August establishing the conditions and procedures to be applied to ensure interoperability between information systems of criminal police bodies, and the second amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Law on the Organisation of Criminal Investigation. Mrs. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco indicates that the PS wants to make a request on this proposal. Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u122	Mr President, the application shall be submitted in accordance with Article 81. , paragraph 4 of our Rules of Procedure. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal has just been discussed in general in plenary, as we all have been able to witness. in this debate, I had the opportunity to ask the Minister of Justice, in my first speech, whether the Government was available and accepted this proposal from the Commission, without a vote. The Minister of Justice replied positively. On the other hand, in her last speech, the Minister of Justice reiterated the Government's acquiescence to bring the proposal down to the Commission without a vote. in this regard, Madam President, I invoke Article 146. that of the Rules of Procedure which allow me to quote and which reads as follows: « Until the announcement of the vote,... »—which is the time — «... a parliamentary group or 10 Members,... » — which is the case — «... at least, provided that the author has obtained the notice,... » — what has been achieved as I have already said — «... may require further consideration of the text to any parliamentary committee within the time limit designated, by not applying in this case Article 144. o’. The request is as follows: « In view of the announcement expressly expressed by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Government, for the fall to 1. the Commission of the proposed Law No 273 / XII, the members below are required to apply for this down to 1. the Commission, without a vote, for a further 15-day review of the proposed law under Article 146. the Rules of Procedure. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u123	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u124	Madam President, these demands have no discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u125	But I am going to ask Mr Luís Montenegro for the effect of asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u126	Madam President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u127	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that it is not in question, in fact, to intervene on the application itself, on its object, it is, in fact, to intervene on the assumption of the legitimacy of the submission of the application and for its vote. Indeed, Mr President, in the debate we have just held, Mr Jorge Lacão asked the Government to know whether the Government was available and effectively used the Regimental figure without a vote for a political dialogue on this proposal with the opposition parties, in particular. The Minister of Justice did not specifically refer to the lowering of the bill without a vote and therefore it is not true that she gave the Government an express announcement that the diploma would be lowered without a vote, but showed willingness to interact, as it is normal, with Parliament and with the parliamentary groups in the course of this legislative process. from which, Madam President, it is our understanding that this requirement of announcement by the Government is not met. In any case, if there is a different understanding of the Bureau or, even the plenary, we have no problem voting on this request and we will vote-CL against it because, as was very well expressed in the last speech of the debate by Mr Jorge Lacão, who pushed from the top to the bottom of the proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u130	... it is not justified to drop, without a vote, to improve the text which has to be voted on in general. This does not mean that the PSD is not fully available as a specialist in political dialogue with all parties, but, Madam President, I do not think that the requirement is met for us to vote on this request.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u131	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u132	If the Bureau understands differently, we will no longer argue, we will vote against and we will be calmly available to dialogue with the parties in the debate of the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u133	The Bureau may be able to help in this small dispute. It is because the Bureau has consulted the Government and it does not give permission for the Commission's proposal to be dropped, without a vote. Therefore, I do not even accept the request, because it has no regulatory conditions to be admitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u134	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u135	You have the floor, Mr. Jorge Lacão. I asked him to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u136	Madam President, I asked for the floor to say the following: let us comply with your decision because of the obvious reason that the Government has just informed the Bureau of a different position than it has taken in plenary, it can change its position until the last moment. But I must also say that the plenary will record, because the debate was public, the evidence of the agreement of the Government. Let each one of you draw the conclusions that you understand well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. The general vote on Bill No 273 / XII ( 4 ) was then followed. ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 73 / 2009 of 12 August establishing the conditions and procedures to be applied to ensure interoperability between information systems of criminal police bodies, and the second amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Law on the Organisation of Criminal Investigation. [[The vote was taken, with the votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, against the PS and with the abstentions of the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u138	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u139	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u140	Madam President, it is to announce to the House that I will make a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u141	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 131 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September 2007 on exceptions to the prohibition on the use of maternity replacement ( PS ) ( text replaced by the author of the initiative ). [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS Deputies Inês de Medeiros and Luís Pita Amisena, votes in favour of PS, BE, The Greens and the PSD Deputies Ángela Guerra, Miguel Santos, Monaco Ferro, Nuno Reis, Odete Silva and Teresa Leal Coelho and PCP abstentions, the PSD Deputies Carla Rodrigues, Crisóvão Norte, Duarte Filipe Marques, Francisca Almeida, Joana Barata Lopes, João Prata, Maria José Castelo Branco and Maria Paula Cardoso and the PS Deputy of Philip Neto Brandão.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1170 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of extraordinary measures to support chestnut producers ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with the votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The overall vote on the motion for a resolution No 96 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Convention between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Tunisia for Defence Cooperation, signed on 18 January 2013 in Tunis. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 100 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amendment to Article 38. the Statute of the World Tourism Organization, which was adopted in 2007 in 17. the General Assembly of this Organization ( Resolution 521 ( XVII ) ), held in Cartagena of India. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u142	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u143	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u144	Madam President, there's been a delay here. It is that in motion for a resolution No 96 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), i.e. in the vote prior to the vote just taken, I wanted to correct the Left Block vote for abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u145	Of course, Mr. Deputies. I repeat the result of the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 96 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), previously identified. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Motion for a resolution No 100 / XII ( 4 ) (a) it was adopted unanimously. Mrs. Members, we turn to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Portuguese Communities, on the proposal for a law No 243 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 66 -A / 2007 of 11 December defining the powers, organisation and functioning of the Council of the Portuguese Communities. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs Carla Cruz asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u146	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to the last vote, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u147	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u148	Yes, Madam President, it is also to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u149	Mr. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u150	Madam President, it is also to inform that on behalf of the Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group I will send a statement of vote to the Bureau on the diploma we have voted on, which is of great importance to the area of the Portuguese communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u151	Does Mrs Helena Pinto also wish to announce a statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u152	Yes, Madam President, it is exactly for the same purpose. The Left Block Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-06.u153	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 11 February, and the agenda consists of an appeal to the Government No 20 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( BE) — Destruction of public transport supply. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 42 minutes.]]
