ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 1290 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the enhancement of citizenship education in all basic and secondary education cycles ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 1291 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the opening of the classification procedure of the current « Aveiro Museum » for « National Aveiro Museum » ( PS ), which also falls to 8. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u3	Mrs. Members, let us begin the agenda with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 765 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ), 766 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fight unjustified enrichment ( BE), 782/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( thirty-fifth amendment to the Penal Code approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) ( PCP ), 803 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ), 798 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Illicit enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 801 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the control regime for unwarranted or undeclared property increases of the holders of political and comparable positions ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the adoption by the Portuguese State of a national and international action plan for the extinction of offshore centres ( CFP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they are already registered to present their diplomas. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares, Antonio Filipe, Teresa Leal Coelho and Telmo Correia. To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u4	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: Corruption is a scourge that undermines confidence in democracy, politicians and the rule of law itself. It is on that basis that popular voice says that politicians and parties are all the same, which is deeply false. We therefore have this debate and therefore the Left Block has challenged all parliamentary groups so that, in such an important matter, it is possible for all to make their proposal and for everyone's choices to be on the table. For us, this is a concern that comes from far away. We approved the aggravating of penalties and the creation of urban crime. We had as a central point the criminalization of illicit enrichment, a proposal that was presented in 2009, 2010, 2011 and in 2012 a signed text together with other parties (of which the PS was excluded) even became an attempt of law. But he did not see the light of day: the Constitutional Court considered that this proposal should be reformulated. Learning from this decision, the legislative initiative to criminalize undeclared enrichment is, on our part, the next chapter in the immense will to combat corruption. The proposal could not be clearer: to take on the declarative obligations of the political heritage and the high levels of the state today and to be more demanding in transparency. Capital transparency and interest in the exercise of public office is an essential value for the quality of democracy and for combating corruption. We propose to create a new entity, specific for this purpose, which checks and validates heritage declarations. The current spread of competences in the treatment and control of declarations of ownership and incompatibilities of holders of public and political positions, as well as the fact that the competent bodies are not specialized, prevents the same from being effective. It is therefore proposed, for example from other countries, such as Spain or France, that these powers be concentrated on an independent entity, which operates with the Constitutional Court, the entity of transparency. But we want to go even further, extending the list of those who have an obligation to declare their heritage. From government members, state consultants or experts, or Members and Ministerial Members. Those who decide in the country have to declare their heritage and that is why we propose that the current system of control of wealth and impediments be strengthened, because it is clearly insufficient today. The influence of office holders of political positions or consultants in legislative processes and in processes of divestment of State goods requires subjective extension of this regime. But we insist that continuous monitoring of this heritage, of that wealth, should be possible. In addition to the extension of the reporting deadlines for a period of six years, after the termination of office, we demand that these declarations be updated annually. And as those who should not be afraid, these statements should be published on the Internet, accessible to all citizens. I recall here the words of Mr Telmo Correia in previous debate on this subject: 'In the declarations regime, we must extend this regime, deepen it and ensure, above all, that there is more scrutiny of the declarations that are made'. Mr Telmo Correia, this is the answer in the Project of the Left Block. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members, with these proposals, we also respond to the concerns of the Constitutional Court. The legal good to be protected, one of the issues that I said was undefined in the previous diploma, is clear and unequivocal: it is the duty of transparency for public servants. If there is undeclared heritage, then it becomes a crime, and a new type of crime, an autonomous crime never suggested before. And there is no reversal of the burden of proof, because the obligation created is that of the statement of heritage. If there is disproportionate enrichment, then it will be communicated to the Public Prosecutor's Office. All centered on a specialized body, with resources for its task, co-adjuvant of the Constitutional Court and which may decide on the loss of office or resignation of the public agent. No one escapes this requirement and those who fail to meet can lose their mandate. He may even be a prime minister without his mandate. Simple? Exactly. Requirement? A lot. It couldn't be any other way. In this respect, we are still presenting a project which, while not mistaken, is complementary, which attacks unjustified enrichment by means of tax, by charging 100 % the accumulated wealth abused. Let us not confuse, I insist, with the undeclared enrichment: this way does not replace or annul the fight against corruption in the State. And we expect you to have better reception today than in times when it was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. As Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho said in the last debate we had here in the House on these matters, "we need solutions that resist the dogmatic argument that maintains that our Constitution does not allow us to combat the corrupt state of things". If that is the challenge, we have our proposals in this challenge, because it is in constitutional respect that we have done so. With the requirement of those who know that we are only expected to have a strong solution to the problem of corruption and that society and democracy do not sympathize with the failure of the resolution of this problem, whose need is generally recognized and demanded. This is the moment we can't fail. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u5	Mrs. Members, these are the draft laws of the Left Block. However, they signed up to intervene by PS and PCP, Mr. Mr Jorge Lacão and Mr João Oliveira, whom I had not mentioned at the beginning of the debate. To present the initiatives of the CFP, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me to present the PCP bill on the criminalization of unjustified enrichment. Later, Mr. João Oliveira will present the PCP projects related to offshore and economic and financial crime. with regard to unjustified enrichment, it was precisely eight years ago that the CFP presented in this Assembly, on 15 February 2007, a bill at that time also referred to as « unjustified enrichment ». Later in 2009 the legislative initiatives evolved towards the designation of "illegal enrichment" and we have, in a way, oscillated in this designation to propose initiatives which basically have the same object. at the time, eight years ago, the bill submitted by the PCP was rejected with the votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS. There was an evolution when we presented an initiative in 2009, for the second time : at that time the votes against were only the PS and the CDS. Until, finally, it was possible to find a majority solution to approve a text which was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, as we know, considering that the text approved here violated the presumption of constitutionally consecrated innocence by means of an inversion of the burden of proof regarding the practice of criminal lawlessness. in the initiative we now present, we scrupulously take into account what was the decision of the Constitutional Court. One of the considerations made and which led to the declaration of unconstitutionality was that there was no precision regarding the determination of the legal good to defend with the criminalization of illicit enrichment — so the text was designated then approved. That is why what the CFP now proposes is that it is very clearly established that the legal good to be preserved is the value of transparency in obtaining wealth and income. This is the value of an obligation to declare a heritage, an initial declaration if that heritage is more than 400 national minimum wages. In other words, a property exceeding €200 000 must be declared ab initiation after the entry into force of the legal text which is approved and, in addition, capital increases of values greater than €200 minimum wages must necessarily mean an update of that declaration within a given period indicating the origin of this capital increase or of that increase in income. This is how we find ourselves legally protecting the value of transparency by applying criminal sanctions in the event of non-compliance. Therefore, we respond to the fundamental criticism made by the Constitutional Court, which considered that enrichment only because it happened cannot mean an illegal criminal, it would only be illegal if it had an illegal origin behind it, and that would have to be demonstrated by the judicial authorities. The burden of proof should not fall on the agent himself. What we now say is that the non-declaration or non-declaration of the origin of the capital increase must be, yes, an illegal criminal, a direct criminal sanction. Of course, this unjustified enrichment could be an indication of the practice of other criminal acts, but then the judicial authorities, on the basis of those indications, will have to do the necessary research. But the unfairness of income, in itself, is already an illegal one in the name of transparency that needs to be protected. We understand that this regime for holders of political office, high public office or civil servants must be an aggravated regime, but this crime must exist for society as a whole and therefore also for other citizens who have an unjustified capital increase must have the social duty to justify this capital increase before their fellow citizens. We stress that there must be a more complicated regime for civil servants and holders of political and high public positions, but there must be a general duty of transparency which imposes on society as a whole. In Portuguese society, we all have the bitter experience of very serious acts of corruption that are practised within the private sector, particularly within the financial sector, and that should not be unpunished when unjustified enrichment is criminalized.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u8	There are also solutions proposed by the other parties, so our position is that there should be a feasibility for the specialty of all the initiatives presented, without prejudice to having some doubts and divergences regarding other paths that are opened. In particular, it seems to us that the Socialist Party's project means a more aggravated regime, if any, of the declaration of income of political office holders, which already exists today. With regard to the PSD project, we believe that there is a missing aspect of the reporting obligation, which is not explicit and there should be an explicit obligation to declare from which unjustified enrichment would be abridged, and we also believe that further improvement is warranted as to the accuracy of the legal-crinal good to be protected. It seems to us that the wording found by the PSD does not fully respond to the issues raised by the Constitutional Court. But these are issues that we can and should address in our specialty. We hope that, sooner than later, this Parliament will approve the criminalization of unjustified enrichment, because it would be a very significant and very valuable step in the fight against corruption, which is a fight that is of great concern to the Portuguese. Impunity of unjustified enrichment is, in fact, lacking in our legal order, which is understood by the generality of our citizens and the Assembly of the Republic has a duty to respond to this concern, approving the relevant legislation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u9	To present the PSD and CDS-PP bill, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: "Whoever acquires, possesses, uses, converts or transmits goods knowing that they have their origin in a criminal activity, committed by him or by any third person, or performs any other act to or cover up their illicit origin, or helps a person who has participated in the offence or offences to circumvent the legal consequences of their acts, shall be punished with imprisonment for six months to one year and fine up to three times the value of the goods. in such cases, the court, in view of the seriousness of the facts and the personal circumstances of the offender, may also impose the special disability penalty for the exercise of its profession or industry for a period of one to three years'. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I have just read a section of Article 301. the Spanish Criminal Code. « The fact that they cannot justify the resources corresponding to their way of life or that they cannot justify the origin of a detained property, being directly related to one or more persons involved in the practice of crimes (... ) is punishable by a sentence of three years'imprisonment and 75 000 € of fines» — I now read a section of Article 321 - 6 which places unjustified enrichment in France. With reading these excerpts of foreign standards, I would like to make it clear in this Parliament that the myth that our European partners do not have any legal-criminal instruments concerning the criminalization of illegal or unjustified enrichment is not a mere myth that has been repeated to exhaustion, but that does not correspond to the reality of the facts nor is it true that the constant repetition. In both cases I mentioned, Spain and France, and we could go through Belgium and other states of our human rights paradigm, the legislator introduced tools to combat crime that constitute criminal offences punishable by imprisonment for the use of goods of a previous crime, without punishment depending on the previous conviction for the basic crime of enrichment. I repeat, in both cases, in the Spanish and French legal systems, of our human rights matrix, what the legislator intended to introduce into the criminal law forum was precisely a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment, resulting from the use of illicit goods, without the prior offence having to be identified or serve as a basis for the condemnation and application of a penalty. I hope that this myth will allow the criminalization of illicit enrichment or unjustified enrichment and that the presumption of innocence in our European partners is absolute, to follow its doctrinal course in Portugal, as followed by other Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe and the United Nations as well. The rules I cited, the Spanish Criminal Code and the French Criminal Code were introduced or amended in the case of France in 2003 and 2006 respectively. It has been a long journey since 1981 that the doctrine and jurisprudence of our European partners have led, in order to admit restrictions to the presumption of innocence, whenever other equally attentive values are at stake. Without prejudice to the special protection that the legal systems of our democratic state matrix and market economy must guarantee the formation, acquisition, maintenance and transmission of the heritage at the same time must ensure conditions for the proper formation of the heritage by punishing, through criminal sanctions, the formation and use of irregularly constituted heritage. There is only protection of the acquisition of wealth and the use of wealth, as our right to private property matrix supports, if the protection is made, simultaneously, by criminal means, against irregular acquisitions and profits of property. It is our conviction that the circumstances in which the property of someone or the continued use of heritage manifestly incompatible with the income and property declared or to declare is the subject of a judgment of strong social censorship, as has already been mentioned here by the Members who preceded me. This behaviour constitutes a serious disruption to the social order and to the protection of social and economic conditions and is sensitive to the fundamental interests of the State. This is a deviant behaviour of the established legal order. This judgment is all the more evident in a context where a serious financial crisis has affected national and international economies, in particular as regards the preservation of the financial and economic resources necessary for human, social and economic development, trust in institutions, the safeguarding of the peaceful coexistence of society, transparency and prosperity, as well as credibility in the national market, equity, free competition and equal opportunities — values that constitute the essential core of the fundamental interests of the State and of Community life. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With an objective look at Portuguese society, there is a strong perception of the evidence that some in recent decades have appropriated resources that are indispensable to the promotion of progress. This has also just been mentioned by the previous Members and is a people's voice judge. The Portuguese society, in recent decades, has generated rich people to whom it must be demanded to give accounts, without fear or subterfuge and without fear of offending the most privileged or dominant. It is in this framework that we have been defending, for more than a decade, the criminal policy judgement of criminalizing illegal, unjustified or disproportionate enrichment, as they want to call it, with the aim of extending research tools and combating corruption and, on the other hand, with the aim of imposing a high level of scrutiny on the achievement and use of heritage, in cases where there is strong evidence that it has not been properly trained. It is incontroverted today that the disparity between income and heritage represents a serious social dysfunction. The criminal legislative policy must therefore make this censorship a kind of crime, appropriate to the prevention and suppression of the offensive behaviours of the values of transparency and probity, as well as deviations from economic, social and human development, while preserving, at the same time, the conformity principles of the democratic rule of law, together with ensuring the operationality of the legal instrument, the tool to combat crime and corruption. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not overlook the need to answer the questions of unconstitutionality delivered by the case law of the Constitutional Court, which is reflected in the judgment No. 179/2012, which is why, within the framework of draft law No. 798 / XII, which we present jointly with the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, we promote a more detailed identification of protected legal goods, as well as more accurately characterize the censored behaviour and ensure that proof of the elements of the crime falls exclusively to the Public Ministry. On the other hand, considering that irregular training or use of heritage should be particularly sanctioned in respect of those who have special duties of transparency and probity, we propose that, for holders of political or high-ranking positions, the value of the incompatibility relevant for criminalisation should be based on a discrepancy of more than 100 minimum wages (about €50 000) and that, for them, the penalty should be particularly compounded from the discrepancy of more than 350 minimum wages (about €175,000), raising the value of the incompatibility relevant for criminalisation of private behaviour to 350 minimum wages (about €175,000) and is particularly compounded by the discrepancy of 500 minimum wages (about €250 000). Finally, we propose that the penalties imposed on holders of political or high-ranking positions be 5 and 8 years, depending on disproportionately, and for citizens in general of 3 and 5 years. This is the project that we are presenting here today, proposing, from now on, to promote, in the field of expertise, a debate with the various political forces represented in this Parliament, with a view to introducing the contributions which are the subject of consensus. And, necessarily, we are available to contribute to all the projects we have seen with great satisfaction to enter this Parliament, especially the projects presented by BE and the CFP. We agree with the need to demand returns, wealth declarations above certain amounts. We understand that the current economic and financial circumstances justify that such a statement should be made to those who show manifestly high assets, in relation to the median of the patrimony, must have a justification. Thank you very much for your attention, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit. The Bureau shall record requests for clarification by BE and the CFP. I wonder if you want to answer together or separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u12	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u13	All right, Mrs. Deputy. First of all, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u14	Madam President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, the bill now submitted by the PSD and the CDS, and that Mrs Deputy has detailed us, wants to answer and overcome the questions put by the Constitutional Court, when it was pronounced by the unconstitutionality of the diploma approved by this House on the wrongful enrichment. I think it is the concern of all and of all to find the right and constitutional solutions for a new start in combating corruption in our country. Therefore, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, registering her opinions and the words expressed in relation to the bill presented by the Block of the Left, we want to ask you two questions. One question concerns the definition of the legal good to be protected. As you know, and is referred to in your bill, this was one of the foundations for the pronunciation of unconstitutionality. The option of the Left Block was to consider the obligation of transparency of holders of political and public positions as regards their assets and incomes, such as the legal good to be protected. in our assessment, the draft law of the PSD and the CDS persists in an indefinition of the legal good, not yet fully responding to the Constitutional Court judgment. That is why we would like the honourable Member to be a little further in this respect. Our second question concerns the proposal of the Left Block for the creation of the transparency entity of the holders of political positions and high public positions. Does Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho not consider that the current situation, which, in fact, also characterized her intervention, and the lower attention of the Constitutional Court in relation to the statements of the holders of public office, is less attention, not proposed, but because of the circumstances, making it difficult to monitor and, therefore, reduce the effectiveness required in this matter? The creation of this entity, providing it with the necessary resources, of course, will not, itself, contribute to the credibility of the policy, responding to what the honourable Member has also said, to such an existing social consciousness of rejection for opacity, on the one hand, but also responding to the finding that there is not sufficient supervision in relation to the duties of the holders of political positions? at this stage of the debate, these were the issues you would like to raise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u15	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u16	Mrs President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I would like to ask you two questions relating to the PSD and CDS-PP bill, which you have just submitted and which I have already mentioned in my initial speech, but which I would like to deepen. Firstly, it seems to us that, in the draft law, a specific declarative obligation is missing. Why? Because a capital increase is criminalized and this increase has to have as its basis a starting point, whatever it is; it has to add to something. It happens that statements of heritage have in them the holders of political and high-ranking positions, they do not have any other citizens. And in the statement of income that all citizens make at IRS, at least those citizens who have a level of income that is compatible with what is required, that they have no more demanding income, there is indeed no specific statement of heritage that can serve as a starting point for what is intended to be criminalized. Therefore, my first question is whether they do not consider that there is an explicit obligation to declare income and property, either as proposed by the tax administration, to take advantage of the deadline for the IRS declaration, or otherwise. But you want us to feel that there is a failure in your project, an omission that would be important to close. The second question concerns the precise definition of the legal good to be protected. When the Constitutional Court considered that there was, in the previous text, no definition of what legal good that was, it seems to us that the attempt to circumvent this issue is also at risk of being unconstitutional because of lack of precision. Because, otherwise, let's see. You consider that 'the conduct provided for in the previous paragraph...' — i.e. enrichment — '... constitutes a serious disruption to social order and protection of social and economic conditions and is attentive to the fundamental interests of the State, in particular as regards the preservation of the economic resources necessary for the human, social and economic development, the trust and credibility of the institutions, and aims to safeguard the peaceful coexistence of society, the transparency of income sources and prosperity, the credibility of the national market, equity, free competition and equal opportunities, values that constitute the essential core of the State's fundamental interests in Community life'. Madam Member, don't hurt me, this would be good in the preamble, but it's not good in the joint anymore. It is true that this is in the articulation that this is a little bit of precision regarding the legal good to be defended. Therefore, not disagreeing with these values which are, in fact, persistent in abstract, what we believe is that the risk of insisting on an unconstitutional solution is very great. So we're calling for the gentlemen. Members reflected on this issue and on the need for greater precision regarding the definition of the legal good to defend, so that we can successfully carry out this task of criminalizing unjustified or illegal enrichment, as we prefer. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u17	Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u18	Madam President, I will reply to the honourable Members. Mrs Helena Pinto and Mr António Filipe at the same time, insofar as the questions raised are of the same nature. Starting with the references made to the legal good and the need to respond to the Constitutional Court, precisely with regard to the delimitation, realisation, the specification of a legal good to be protected, we used a legislative technique that we recognize is not the best... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u19	... by introducing paragraph 2 in Article 335. o -A. But we did it consciously.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u20	Mal! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u21	In fact, we had already done so at the time of the approval of the Law of State Secret.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u22	Mal! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u23	In the Law of State Secret we also used a technique that we imported from the French Penal Code and the Law of the French State Secret. Although it is not the usual legislative technique, it is a legislative technique that is used on time, precisely to highlight issues related to the essential values of a particular legal order. And that is why we chose to introduce this paragraph 2 in Article 335. o -A, which refers to the rules of the State secret and to the fundamental interests of the State in criminalizing the violation of the State secret. Our Constitution is in line with the precise framework of these fundamental State interests. In short, this standard is in force and this is our choice. On the other hand, we understand that transparency and probity are values to be preserved, but we understand that, in addition to transparency and probity, they are values to preserve those in which the doctrine of decades concerning the criminalization of illicit enrichment is based. It's not the national doctrine, it's the foreign doctrine. But the foreign doctrine supports the need for criminalization of illicit enrichment and has made the way, with regard to the question of weighting or the need for restrictions on presumption of innocence, against other equally attentive values, supporting them in the values of the rule of law and the need to safeguard financial and economic costs for social progress, which is an absolutely decisive value of societies. That is what we wanted to achieve, in addition to transparency and probity. But as I said recently, we are fully available to receive the contributions and to improve these solutions. Our understanding is that, even though we are available for other ways, as I said in my speech, we have made the journey that other legal orders have made and that have reached the right port. In fact, I mentioned two rules here, despite the Constitutional Court's own judgment saying that no European partner criminalizes illicit enrichment. It's not like that. It's criminal! In fact, it is often said that no European partner criminalizes. I have just read two rules in force and could read more than two or three rules in force that do not meet the crime in excess. And so that is what we also want to do. We're also here on a cross on value weighting. In conclusion, Mrs President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I had already made reference in my initial speech to the issue of the statement of income. We are available to work on this. in our project, we also report statements or communications that are required by law, but we can take steps in this matter. with regard to the transparency entity, it is curiously an import of the Spanish and French models. Therefore, if we want to look more closely at these two models and the efficiency of fighting and investigating corruption — both in the French and in the Spanish cases — we can also follow this path. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u24	This is how the PSD presents the joint initiative of the PSD and the CDS-PP. To introduce the same initiative, I give the floor by the CDS-PP to Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of this discussion on illicit enrichment, we wanted to highlight a very important aspect, which is the fact that this is not, as has already been said, an isolated initiative by several banks. This is not Colombo's egg which will enable us, as it were, to combat all the phenomena of corruption. The Assembly has taken correct, assertive steps on this subject. We have also recently adopted the subject which came from the various recommendations of GRECO (Group of States Against Corruption), which range from the limitation deadlines to the statute of repentance, a serious package of anti-corruption issues. And now we return, more than three years after the beginning of the last debate on this subject, to the subject of illicit enrichment. We then return, including, a diploma approved by this House with a broad vote of all parties—if I am not mistaken, only the Socialist Party did not follow that decision—and a decision contrary to the Constitutional Court. And why do we come back? from the point of view of the CDS-PP, I would stress first of all that we now return to this matter for a reason of consistency. We believe that the criminalization of illicit enrichment is important and relevant to Portugal. This is the reason for coherence. Secondly, we do so for a reason of persistence, because, despite the difficulties and difficulty of the matter, it is not in our nature, so to speak, to give up easily. We therefore believe that, on a matter of persistence, we must insist on this matter. Finally, we are doing so on the basis of a question of conviction. Our conviction is that certain situations, certain behaviours existing in Portuguese society and that shock it on the basis of illicit enrichment must have a clear and unequivocal answer. This is the reason for conviction. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Clearly, as I said, this is not a single instrument. I spoke to you about the GRECO instrument, I could speak to you even of the work that was previously done in a committee of the previous Parliament on combating corruption and which allowed very important advances, in particular in the context of urban crime or the ineligibility of politicians, in particular the authorships, when pronounced by crimes associated with their mandate. Anyway, this is one more step beyond many others that have already been taken here. I would also like to highlight something that seems fundamental to me. After stopped work, internal debate and within the coalition, we made an option, which was to criminalize illicit enrichment and not follow any of the possible successors. There was another way, but we chose not to follow him. from the point of view of the CDS-PP and of what I would like to say to you, I would like to make it very clear — I have done so, moreover, a few years ago, when we discussed the previous diploma — that we do not accept the idea that the creation of wealth is, in itself, an illegal crime or behavior. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] That is, from our point of view, absolutely unacceptable. Much less we hate or prejudice those who create wealth. We think exactly the opposite, that is, that wealth is a good that promotes development and that, by promoting development, promotes the progress of the whole society. Our enemy is, and will always be, poverty. Our enemy is not, nor will it ever be, wealth. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What we want to criminalize is neither wealth nor wealth. What we want to criminalize is the illicit, criminal and illegitimate acquisition of wealth by some, stealing resources from all. That's what we want to criminalize. We have no prejudices in this matter. And, if I may, I would use a famous phrase by Mark Twain, which is the following: « Wealth is always very difficult to tolerate, especially if it is the wealth of others». We therefore do not have that prejudice regarding wealth. We know that, in this area, we have encountered difficulties, particularly from a constitutional point of view, and these difficulties have led us to consider which way to go, that is, in the face of difficulties, including constitutional difficulties, how we could solve this matter. I have already told you that we choose not to present exactly the same project but with another language. That wasn't our way. If not, what were the alternatives? The first obvious alternative was to do nothing, that is to leave everything as it was, recognize the constitutional difficulty and have no more action on this matter. The second alternative — and that was a hypothesis we had already considered — was that we should concentrate our proposal on a solution that was essentially fiscal. It is to some extent what other political forces, including the Left Block and also the PCP, are doing when they present projects that are mainly tax-related. I must say that, from this point of view, there would be, in the readings that we have made, other simpler and more direct paths. And I recognize until a strictly fiscal route would perhaps be the easiest way to approach this path and this same matter. But that was also not the solution we chose, even knowing that it could be a solution based, for example, on the manifestations of fortune. But we didn't go that way. The third hypothesis was to pretend that we were very interested, to say that we also had a project, to present something that has nothing to do with anything, that does not change anything, and thus to pretend that we were participating in the debate or that we were interested in illicit enrichment. That is, more or less, the solution of the Socialist Party, but neither did we want to go there. We do not choose any of these options, i.e. we do not seek a way side by side and we insist on criminalizing illicit enrichment by seeking, as explained here, to answer the questions of the Constitutional Court. How? First, making it clear the definition of a criminal type and making it more objective, seeking from a concrete concept, which is that of the capital increase whenever it is incompatible with the declarations of income in the next two years, choosing these two years in relation to the practice of crime and comparing one with the other, as is evident, and also extending the profit, because if we would not, of course, empty the effectiveness of this criminal type. That's where we tried to object. On the other hand, we wanted to make clear the legal good to protect. Let's do it in detail. It has already been explained, questioned and answered, but I would say that there are two fundamental aspects of this legal good. First, we highlight the protection of the fundamental interests of the State, which we know are, and within these interests, the good to protect, in relation to community life, the confidence and credibility of the State itself. On the other hand, the obligation to be transparent to the holders of political positions and senior officials, but also the obligation to be transparent to all citizens in their statements. That is where the legal good is focused, and that is where we have sought to clarify, too, by answering the questions of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, starting from a type of crime that is not strictly fiscal, we focus on the objective of this type of criminal, then on the fiscal assessment and assessment of declarations. Finally, we also aim to respond objectively to the question of presumption of innocence. We had sought in the previous project that, by protecting the honest, there could be an explanation of the heritage by itself. As this was considered as inversion of the burden of proof, at this moment and this project does not imply any claim of innocence of itself and therefore from this point of view does not, in our view, reverse the burden of proof. We thus safeguard, as I said, the honest, legitimate behaviours, as well as the legitimate sources of income that are, moreover, provided for in our project, such as liberalities, such as donations and inheritances. We have the notion of the difficulty that such a project always has in the balance of values between privacy and heritage, on the one hand, and transparency, on the other, between individual freedom and ability to control wealth by state bodies. There is always a balance that is difficult, but we do not need to fight behavior that we consider unacceptable. On the other hand, and in the penultimate place, contrary to what other projects do, we choose not to create an exclusive crime for politicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u27	We have no doubt that politicians and senior officials have particular responsibilities, duties, obligations and ethics in relation to the generality of citizens. And it's because of this special responsibility that crime is more serious, that's why the values are different, that's why the criminal frame is bigger. however, we do not believe it is acceptable that there should be a suspicion at the outset as if such crimes and as if the illicit enrichment were an exclusive thing of politicians and high officials, because it is not, and that, yes, would violate the principle of equality. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We also do not want, nor do we accept — it is not in our principles — a sort of big state brother who controls everything, who wants everything to know and who wants to affect everything. That's not our idea. We will never forget the famous phrase of Lord Acton saying that «the absolute power corrupts absolutely». Therefore, we do not want an absolute state of power that can invade the entire sphere of privacy in this or other matters. We have the notion that, contrary to what can be said and what can be thought, the more state, the more everything depends on the state, the more the State interferes in all sectors of social, political and economic life, the more we are creating the fertile field of bureaucracy so that corruption can fatten. A reformed State, a State limited to its essential functions has less field and less margin for the progression of corruption. I shall finish, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying and repeating that we have no prejudice against the creation of wealth. We have the firm idea that the illegitimate creation, the illegitimate and illegal acquisition of wealth must be criminalized, underlining and separating the various roles, immediately at the start the role of the economy which, in a modern society, is exactly that of creating wealth. It is to create wealth that the economy exists and not for any other purpose. We also stress the role of politics, which is, after creating wealth, to ensure that it is distributed fairly, according to the merit of each one. Finally, we stress the role of justice, which is to combat those who take advantage of and seek to obtain wealth in an illegitimate and illegal way. For us, these three roles are separate, are clear and are with this intention and with this spirit that we now present and defend this project of combatting illicit enrichment. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u28	Mrs. Members, we follow the presentation of the Socialist Party bill. To that end, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u29	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: This debate and the appreciation of the projects around income and heritage control means a return to the starting point of three years ago, when the question could have been properly and efficiently resolved in the deepening of the principles of transparency and responsibility, as the PS then proposed. It was, as we all know, that unfortunately did not happen, since, from the right to the left of this Chamber, ears were made to market the warnings made and insisted on options whose constitutional vices were unequivocally confirmed by the Constitutional Court. The inexorability of the presumption of innocence, of the non-inversion of the burden of proof in criminal law, of the dubious misdemeanour and of the right not to self-incrimination continue... The irrevocability of the presumption of innocence, of the non-inversion of the burden of proof in criminal law, of the dubious misdemeanour and of the right to non-incrimination continue to be part of the good legal and democratic heritage with which, in the PS, we are proud to identify, because it was in the name of the freedom that we founded ourselves as a party and it is and will always be in the name of it and the guarantee of the fundamental rights that we will be defeated. However, years of response consistent with improving the system of liability and control of income and wealth declarations and the treatment of potential unwarranted capital increases have been lost due to mere stubbornness. But first, as now, we remain convinced of the well-founded path that we have pointed out and which is why we continue to defend. therefore, I am going to present the most relevant guidelines of the PS project. First, there is a significant extension of the list of entities subject to the duty to submit statements of wealth and income. From now on, not only the holders of political positions, but also the senior leaders of the central, decentralized and regional public administration, as well as the managers of the business public sector. Secondly, the deadline for submission of due statements is 60 to 30 days short. Third, the required declarations shall be submitted by the end of the third year after the end of the term of office. Fourthly, declarations of wealth and income must begin to divide the yields obtained and identify their sources. Fifthly, the refusal to submit the declaration shall incur the person responsible for a crime of disobedience. Sixthly, the assessment of the declarations, both at the availability of the Constitutional Court, as well as of the Public Prosecutor, as well as of the Tax Authority, in addition to the existing rules on public consultation, should be recorded in electronic support and consequently more efficient use. In the seventh place, by reason of the cross-section of data or the database under the legal regime of external signs of wealth, the tax administration may provide, before the tax tribunal, the precautionary seizure of the entire unwarranted assets acquis. Eighteenth place, under the IRS Code, is expected to increase the incident tax rate on unwarranted property from current 60 % to 80 %. In the ninth place, appropriate compatibility of standards is established in order to ensure that, in the event of conviction for crimes of an economic and financial nature, and as a result of a sentence, such unwarranted assets are definitely lost in favour of the State. And it should be remembered that it was on the initiative of a PS Government in 2002 that the law on economic and financial crime already provides for such a solution. Tenth, in order for criminal proceedings to take place, in the event that they occur in relation to the practice of crimes of an economic and financial nature or inherent in corruption, the participation of the tax administration in the Public Prosecutor's Office should necessarily take place in the verified situations of non-justification of income and property. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore reaffirm the full consistency of the PS proposal, and it is time to declare that the PS Parliamentary Group has established as a viable orientation, generally by abstention, the whole of the other projects presented. It will do so on behalf of a genuine commitment to contribute to a positive outcome of this legislative process. But there is the warning: at the end of the process, you can only vote in favour of solutions in accordance with the matrimonial principles of the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore on behalf of these principles that it is important to clarify from now on the guidelines that we do not follow. Those who continue to compromise the principle of presumption of innocence in criminal proceedings and with it the protection of the non-incrimination itself or the prohibition of the reversal of the burden of proof. Those who imply confiscation by administrative decision, even without proof of the practice of criminal offences. Those who, in their radicalism, contradict themselves with, for example, stipulate that the acquisition of a property, just over €30 000, in view of an income of €25 000, incurs the agent, any person, therefore, in the immediate presumption of unjustified enrichment and consequently is the target of tax assessment, but it is considered, being the income less than that amount and the acquisition far higher then, contradictoryly, everything can happen without any obligation to assess. Those guidelines which, failing to require the identification of a specific criminal type relating to the various forms of illicit enrichment, build a purely formal and ideologically legal good, which identify with designated, I quote, « fundamental interests of the State and of the Community life». For what? In order to criminalize situations and behavior, regardless of the proof of illicit enrichment and the formation of related guilt, it is in fact limited to a simple judgment of abstract danger. But, as the Supreme Council of Justice has already said in the Assembly of the Republic, transparency is not a legal good in itself, it is an instrument for the realization of other legal goods.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u31	That is why the ideological nature, as established, of a legal good produced in a grossly proclaimed and diffuse way — as Mr António Filipe recently called it — is therefore unworthy of constitutionally protected criminal protection, irremediably compromises the tax conceptions of liberal and rationalist Enlightenment to which until recently, in democracy, the right had known to be faithful. If, as presented now, the PSD and CDS project were made law, the criteria of constitutional value of necessity, adequacy and proportionality and the principles of subsidiarity and the prohibition of excess in criminal law would pass the dead letter. What repudiation of this attack to the basic principles of the rule of law would not express men like Sá Carneiro, Menéres Pimentel or Mário Raposo, to whose memory I am inclined here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u33	And, by the way, we meditate on what Professor Jorge Figueiredo Dias says in his Criminal Law Manual, and I quote: «The refusal of any criminal conception based on the extension of criminalization should be maintained, which transforms criminal law into a daily instrument of society's government and into a motor or propulsor of pure state policy purposes». And the Professor further says: «that the decarnated efficiency...» — and the expression is yours —... of criminal law cannot constitute the basis of democratic legitimacy». And another, I add, cannot therefore be the conclusion applicable to an attempt to create an illegal criminal in relation to property increases without taking care to require the identification of the illicit forms of acquisition of such increases. It is, in its terms, the very confession of failure, and therefore the evidence of the instrumentalization of criminal law as a weapon of shooting at the service of mere populist ends of easy affirmation of political struggle.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u35	So I ask all of you and all of you. Members, knowing that, in the catalogue of legally foreseen crimes, there are already censorable behaviours ranging from corruption to peculation, from trafficking in capital to trafficking in influences, from tax fraud to economic participation in business, to mention only some of other equally serious crimes, whether it will be legitimate to subject the whole society to a new type of crime in which, in view of the category of highly organized crime established to it, all and any citizen, regardless of suspicion in relation to specific delicious activities, in view of the indexed non-conformity of income and property, can be subjected — it is well said — to the investigation and prevention procedures, before, even, the formal opening of investigation and the constitution of argudo and, therefore, without time, with procedures which, in addition to including the breakdown of banking secrecy and the tax secrecy, admit the use of aggravated systems of special protection of witnesses, of infiltrated actions, the recording of voice and image by any means. This is a necessary, appropriate, proportionate and compatible response to the status of protection of citizens or this is a response that calls for the culture of the police state behind each person who has become suspected and not even necessarily the practice of an illegal criminal in the catalogue. Is this not the biggest attack on a democratic conception of public order? What society do we want to live in, after all? Or is it that preventing and combating impunity no longer lacks respect for fundamental freedoms? Then, if we give due consideration to the condition of the democratic representatives of the people, it is not possible to question which principle of justice and equity can justify that, at the end of the accounts, a person investigated is declaring a status of non-punitability, beneficiary of a kind of prior pardon until the threshold of the order of €175,000 of capital increase or of property profit incompatible with his income and goods and that only from the applicable criminal framework of €250 000 is allowed to act on the possibility of preventive arrest, but in contrast, the holder of political office has an objective contradiction in the house of €50 000 to bring him into criminal situations, susceptible to pretrial arrest. I therefore say: to aggravate uncontrolledly, I repeat, to aggravate uncontrolledly criminal sanctions because of political responsibilities represents the greatest confession of the failure of fitness in the functioning of democracy itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u37	from that question: will there be limits to making a political agent a potential scapegoat of collective dissatisfaction? Will there be limits to this kind of populism, which has nothing to do with promoting the values of transparency and trust, but everything has to do with a crazy race for the suicide of the credibility of democratic institutions? [[P.S.'s applause.]] What kind of society do we want to live in, after all? How is it configured in the specific case of the PSD and CDS project, in a society in which the law—how would it be—carefully protects those who can most at the expense of those who are most exposed? The fight against corruption and the various criminal dimensions of enrichment, in which we will certainly agree, must continue without failure, but without subjecting all citizens to excessive bureaucratic overloads, disproportionate investigations and controls, in some cases, to criminal effects violating the presumption of innocence, in others, to the confiscate disconnected from the material evidence of the crime, in others, and to the infamous discrimination which no principle of justice can accept. Norberto Bobbio once wrote that « a society becomes more ungovernable the more the demands of society and does not, in a corresponding way, increase the ability of institutions to respond to them ». These are well thought-out words, which deserve to be asked whether the legislative effort in which we are involved is really meant to strengthen the capacity of the institutions to respond or to give the illusion that we have built a megasystem of control of the acts of the people, an Orwellian supervision framework which ultimately results in the supreme imperfection of their failure to comply or, by premeditated hypocrisy, in their deliberate inapplicability, even more so as the legal type referred to as 'illegal enrichment' ends up being attributed solely to the competence of a police officer, even though the means of evaluation are largely within the scope of the tax authority. In other words, where competence is placed, the means will be lacking, where the conditions and the means are denied competence. Therefore, as a balance sheet, a sum of wrong and wrong solutions. In contrast, once again, the PS believes that it has found the right path, a demanding way in which the holders of political positions, the superior leaders of the Public Administration and the public managers respond adequately and also, due to tax consequences for income and wealth, not duly justified that, in this case, they worsen considerably. We are aware of the degree of demand, weighting and rigour of our solutions and continue to be convinced that such solutions are those that, with a general sense of justice and seriousness of purposes, society expects us. The hearings which we will be proposing at the Commission's place of business in a great deal, we are sure, will be responsible for illuminating the viability of the following paths. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u38	Thus, the PS bill is presented. To present the legislative initiatives of the CFP, I give the floor to Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The other two initiatives that the CFP brings to this debate, in addition to the unjustified enrichment, are truly pioneering initiatives of parliamentary debate and are of the greatest relevance. over the years we have been confirming the myriad of problems that arise from the existence of offshore, problems, etc., in many circumstances identified in the political debate that we are doing in the Assembly of the Republic and that they have always found a finding: that Portugal cannot alone end the offshores all over the world and therefore the recognition of the inadequacy of this unilateral position of the country has always been an obstacle in the political debate. However, what the CFP is doing in this debate today is precisely to point out a way to overcome this obstacle. And we try to overcome it with the notion of the true dimension of the problem ahead. When we talk about offshore, we are not only talking about tax havens, we are talking about other realities in other territories, countries or regions that not only by tax regimes but also about other conditions that are set up as biombos behind which are hidden criminal realities, realities of corruption, of trafficking in influences, of tax fraud, of the necessary money laundering, because these are realities that are hidden behind an inexhaustible barrier both from the supervisory authorities and from the judicial authorities. Offshore areas are, in fact, in many situations genuine undisturbed areas from the point of view of financial supervision and judicial cooperation. The existence of these legal spaces acts as a zone free of surveillance, supervision or judicial action. Over the years we have been confirming the multiple difficulties facing Banco de Portugal, Instituto de Seguros de Portugal, CMVM, the Public Ministry itself in the pursuit and punishment of criminal activity that uses offshore centres as a biombo to hide operations that support this criminal act. Therefore, these are areas where neither tax law nor judicial authorities nor even financial supervision can enter. The examples are varied and we could mention here a long role, but we will mention only one of them: the situation of BPN, where it was confirmed that, by the use of entities created by the group itself based in tax havens, particularly in non-cooperating offshore centres, i.e. in offshore centres where there is no cooperation with the Portuguese financial supervisory authorities or the Portuguese judicial authorities, criminal practices that are covered by any type of supervision, surveillance or even punishment itself have developed. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these realities give rise to dramatic consequences for citizens and states not only in economic and financial terms but also in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u41	Offshores are, in fact, real biombos behind which many expressions of crime are now concealed. The use of complex schemes and networks of companies — many of which are based in offshore, cooperative or non-cooperating — is a common element that prevents or hinders such intervention, which we have already referred to, in terms of supervision or criminal intervention, allow the development of practices aimed only at obtaining maximum income or concealment of the origin or destination of capital — particularly when it has a provenance or destination related to crime — of planning and tax engineering, of 'circulation' and money laundering. And offshore are, in fact, platforms used to create complex tax escape schemes or money laundering schemes, as well as to carry out financial operations between companies, in order to artificially inflate their profits or hide debt — known round tripping operations or, in Portuguese, to go back and forth. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, considering this whole framework, considering this whole scenario, not only at the national as international level, of difficulties in combating crime and in obtaining the information necessary for the purpose of supervision or the exercise of criminal action, it is essential to find a response to that obstacle which has long been identified in this part. It has been stated several times that the existence of tax havens exceeds the capacity of intervention and decision of a single State. In fact, the role of vehicles located in offshore should call for political and diplomatic action, with a view to the extinction of offshore centres on a global scale. Actively fighting at national and international levels and within relations between States the existence, creation and use of tax havens, which are true obscure chambers of economic and financial affairs, particularly economic and financial crime, is the proposal that the CFP brings here today. If it is true that a government cannot decide the end of tax havens beyond its borders, it is no less true that a government has all the legitimacy to fight for the end of these structures with the other international States and institutions, in particular the European Union and the United Nations, either through negotiation or through the subscription or conception of international treaties, in order to combat the existence of offshores. And as long as this objective is not achieved, the need for legislative action should be taken to limit the possibilities of using offshores, with the strengthening of control and prevention measures by the tax, judicial, economic and financial authorities, supervision and regulation. Each government, each State, has competence to prevent the involvement of tax havens and non-cooperating jurisdictions in financial flows or operations involving the wealth generated in its own territories. The CFP therefore presents two projects that fully correspond to these concerns. On the one hand, we propose a concerted action plan at national and international level — and including, of course, the European Union and the UN — for the extinction of offshores, which provides for the Portuguese State to take a clear position to put an end to them. On the other hand, we believe it is crucial that Portugal initiates the application of rules limiting the exposure of its economy, its financial system and its judicial system to the use of offshores and we present a set of concrete proposals related to these matters so that these objectives can be achieved in order to combat economic and financial crime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we are doing is seeking to take advantage of what is already in place today in national legislation, namely to combat money laundering and economic and financial crime, to find ways to identify offshore which are for themselves and offshore non-cooperating, i.e. that kind of offshore where there is no link with supervisory bodies or judicial authorities. On the other hand, we want to involve the supervisors themselves and the Public Prosecutor himself in defining the conditions that must be respected for such cooperation to be verified. Non-cooperating offshores are identified, which we propose is the establishment of a ban on commercial relations, professional relations or financial operations which have as their destination or origin non-cooperating offshore entities. For all other offshores, what we propose is a mechanism for registration and control of trade relations, of financial operations carried out, taking advantage of exactly the whole regime that already exists for the control of financial operations related to money laundering. Moreover, in these projects, we have sought to use, in the definition of concepts, the much work that has already been done, both at the national level and at the international level, by States and supervisory bodies, in particular by taking advantage of the regulations of the Banco de Portugal, which over time has been developing offshore-related regulations. Therefore, we seek to use concepts that are as defined as possible so that we can in fact combat the crime that is hidden behind the offshores and that we can point out an objective of international extinction of the offshores, without that it means that we remain cross-armed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, I just want to say that the finding that offshorers are a mechanism that hides much of the crime we are dealing with today must lead to a consequence which, we believe, is the need for the Portuguese State to affirm its commitment to the extinction of offshores and to taking measures that, until they are internationally extinct, combat and prevent economic and financial crime, also by means of control, supervision or prohibition of offshore relations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u42	The initiatives of the CFP are thus presented. We continue the debate with the speakers already inscribed: by the Greens Ecological Party Mr José Luís Ferreira and the Left Block Mr Luís Fazenda. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against corruption again marks the agenda, it is again a topic in this Assembly of the Republic. We are thus faced with the discussion of an important legislative package on combating corruption, a vast and broad set of proposals ranging from the strengthening of control of unwarranted or undeclared property increases of political office holders and equated with the transparency of political office holders and high public positions, to illegal or unjustified enrichment, and also by strengthening the fight against economic and financial crime and the extinction of offshore centres. We are therefore discussing legislative initiatives on important issues, some of which have already been discussed in this House of the Republic and even in this Parliament, but are not therefore losing their opportunity and, above all, their importance. Despite being diverse, the projects under discussion, all converge, in one form or another, in one purpose and in one objective: to combat corruption. A fight imposed by ethical imperatives. A fight that is needed to improve our democracy, making it more transparent and assigning more rigour to the management of the public. A fight to credibility the institutions of our democracy, but also a fight to defend and affirm a culture of responsibility. In anticipation, but certainly without surprise, because the Greens have always agreed with the proposals discussed here regarding the fight against corruption, I mean that the Greens are following all the legislative initiatives presented today and thus accompanying the other parliamentary groups in this high combat, which is the fight against corruption. Without prejudice to the importance of the other proposals, the Greens want to highlight, on the one hand, the set of initiatives affecting illegal or unjustified enrichment and those seeking to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime through offshore centres. In fact, in our view, these two matters are of absolutely crucial importance in the fight that we all recognise is necessary to stop. We begin with the creation of the crime of illicit or unjustified enrichment, applicable to both public officials and political office holders. The creation of this criminal type may not be the solution to end corruption, and certainly it will not be, but it is of decisive importance for success, in its fight. in fact, the impunity with which citizens, so many times, are witnessing the enrichment of people who perform public functions, not only weakens the idea of justice, ends up discrediting the whole of democratic institutions, creating strong mistrust over their functioning. That is also why we understand that transparency which should guide the management of the public thing and, above all, the accountability of the people who have this mission before the citizens require, in our view, the criminalization of illicit enrichment. Of course, this criminalization must be carried out in respect of constitutional guarantees, both criminally and criminally, starting with the presumption of innocence and all that it presupposes, from the outset, the burden of proof, which obviously has to fall upon the Public Prosecutor. In our view, the initiatives under discussion today, as others in the past, do not reverse the burden of proof and therefore aim to promote unjustified enrichment to crime, respecting constitutional guarantees. We well know that the text adopted here in 2012, also with the favourable votes of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party's Greens', was declared unconstitutional, despite our understanding that in this proposal it was to the Public Prosecutor's Office that, within the framework of his research powers, he was competing to prove the disproportionateness between the heritage and the normal income resulting from the exercise of a given function and if that disproportionateness was obtained lawfully, he would obviously be excluded from lawlessness. There was therefore no reversal of the burden of proof in our view. However, that was not the understanding of the Constitutional Court, which, of course, the Greens respect. However, in the proposals in question today, proposers present solutions that seek — more than others — to dissipate any reservations of a constitutional nature. in the draft law of the PSD / CDS — which we see is the only one who can present a minimum risk to its constitutional conformity — not only seeks to promote a better and more detailed identification of protected legal assets, as is even more accurately characterized by censored behaviour, but also reinforces the guarantee that proof of the elements of the crime belongs exclusively to the Public Prosecutor. in the draft law of the PCP, the legal-penal value that is intended to protect is the transparency of the acquisition of wealth or high-value income, establishing not only the duty of its declaration to finance, but also the duty to declare the origin of this abnormal increase of heritage. In other words, the capital increase does not constitute per se any presumption of lawlessness. in this bill, what is sanctioned as illegal is the lack of declaration or indication of the origin of this heritage, which, when and corrected, dispenses the penalty. in the case of the draft law of BE — and although, in our view, it does not properly characterize the unjustified enrichment as a crime — where there is a possible disparity to be framed as unjustified enrichment, it is necessary to justify the origin of that enrichment, under the penalty of unjustified enrichment, to be taxed at a rate of 100 %, in addition to providing for a worsening of the penalty in cases where it is proved that there were false declarations or omission of information relating to clarifications on unjustified enrichment. We are thus faced with solutions that remove any reservations from the point of view of the constitutionality of this important instrument in combating corruption, which is unjustified enrichment. Thus, by land, we believe, the only argument of all those who in the past have opposed the typification of illicit enrichment as a crime. We are therefore in a position to take an important step towards moralizing the management of the public thing, to make our democracy more transparent, to make even more responsible for the people who have the mission to manage and take care of what is all of them, but also to meet a widespread feeling in Portuguese, where discouragement reigns and discredits them, in the face of impunity with which so many times they are witnessing the enrichment of people who perform public functions. But we are still in a position to move forward to respond to commitments made by the Portuguese State at the international level, from the United Nations level to the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Indeed, in the United Nations Convention, also known as the Merida Convention, the Portuguese State has undertaken to introduce the crime of illicit enrichment into its legislative architecture in criminal matters. I recall that this Convention went up to plenary in this House in June 2007 and was ratified in September of that same year. And when the vote was put here for ratification, this important United Nations Convention, through which Portugal made the commitment to raise illicit enrichment to crime, deserved the agreement of all the banks of this Plenary. Let us therefore hope that the bills under discussion today on this matter will have the same outcome. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have had the opportunity to mention at the beginning of this speech, in all the bills we are now discussing, The Greens also want to highlight the importance that, in our view, they take the initiatives that seek to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime through offshore centres. in fact, offshore are the image of injustice in the system: while a few live in tax havens, most people live in a real and painful fiscal hell. But in addition to this immorality and injustice, tax havens serve only for large economic groups and great fortunes create highly developed mechanisms to escape taxes or to proceed with money laundering. We well know that a government cannot, by itself, impose the end of tax havens outside its borders. But we also know that any government can and should have an obligation to channel efforts, with the other States and international organizations it is part of, to seek measures and find solutions to end tax havens. It makes no sense on the planet that there are absolutely untouchable zones, areas where financial supervision does not enter, where judicial cooperation is at the door and where the States themselves prefer to pretend that there is no or, then, that it is all right, which is part of the system, which is so, and ready. It can't be. It does not make sense, nor do citizens understand, how a simple taxpayer who forgets his tax obligations or who did not know that he had to pay, in this case, as the ignorance of the law to no one takes advantage, is persecuted by the State, and in our view, but, when it comes to the great fiscal crime, States pretend that nothing happens. It cannot be, there must be ways to put an end to this true and monstrous sin with consent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u45	To do so, there is political will and courage, because the fight against corruption is also going through here. It also has to go through tax havens, because nothing should stay out of this fight. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I just want to say that the Greens consider that all contributions which, in any way or otherwise, enhance and strengthen effectiveness in combating corruption are always welcome, but it is also necessary to respect their constitutional guarantees, both criminally and criminally, which we see happens in the projects under discussion today, even if there are, as I said, some reservations regarding the PSD/CDS bill. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u46	The next intervention is by Mr Luís Fazenda, the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is already a common place - it is said - that liberal democracies - and that is what we are dealing with - they are going through a disease situation and that this disease requires a remedy in democracy itself. And there are obvious symptoms of this disease in liberal, vulgar, European democracies. They have to do with the widespread mistrust of citizens in the justice systems, slow, poorly effective in criminal repression, classists in access and defense in court. They have to do with the very widespread mistrust of citizens in governments that promote policies of inequality and austerity. They have to do with the mistrust of citizens in parliaments with increasingly diminished powers. They have to do with the excessive publicity of parliaments, as evidences of democracy, in the immense scarcity of their ability to intervene. All of this has been undermining confidence in liberal democracies. Of course, one or more initiatives on undeclared, unjustified enrichment, other measures to combat corruption, measures facilitating citizens' access to the political system, to a marked participatory democracy, all of this will make remedies for these very serious symptoms, intervening in a relationship of different forces, also in liberal democracies. But we cannot hide, or squabbling, the spirit of the debate that we are working here today. In other words, in the popular perception—and it is unacceptable—it is understood, and there are reasons for this, that responsible State agents have absolutely unjustified income and heritage. And this discredits the practice of politics, it competes to aggravate the political crisis. And, under these conditions, there is a rapid and widespread view that politicians, political leaders, those who seek to represent interests in a democratic system, are those who end up being an endogamic thing, a caste, as it is said today, and democracy is moving towards oligarchy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u49	And that is especially critical. We can always see the problem on the contrary. And to see the problem on the contrary is to say: there are populist campaigns against democracy, in which they want to make scapegoat politicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u50	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u51	And it is true that these campaigns exist. Now, the truth is that we can see in another way, probably much more interesting and much more combative, from the point of view of the defence of the democratic-constitutional regime. That is to say, the special transparency of politicians and high officials in the state is exactly what enables us to show that "who should not fear" and that these representatives are those who are able to face all kinds of public scrutiny, all kinds of scrutiny of citizens. That is, such rules, in a period of illness of liberal democracies and populist and reactionary campaigns against democratic systems, is, after all, the stress test of democracies. Here is the heart of the problem, and here is the importance of this political debate, which transcends very much one, two or three laws. This is the debate about the times we are living in, which transcends our borders and is well extended in Europe, as can be easily proved. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the idea that there is a slip for the oligarchy is weighed and authorised. So, let us face, in democratic methods, in the forms of vivification of the democratic regime, but also in the particular transparency of those who are political representatives, political agents and agents of the State. Dir-CL will then: but to combat illicit enrichment, the main bill that the Left Block presented—and that is that it is the successor of the failed project of illicit enrichment—is the undeclared enrichment. Therefore, it is a profound change to the law of controlling the wealth of political office holders. That's our main project. We try to face the decisions of the Constitutional Court, accepting them of good mind as enriching what must be our set of harnesses, tools to fortify this republican defense. So we define a legal type of crime — the undeclared enrichment — we define a legal good to protect — the special duty of transparency of the holders of political positions and high officials of the State — and we believe that the crime is consumed by the mere fact that it is the property declared with what is the heritage in use by some of those responsible. The proof of the crime is consumed in your documentation. The Public Prosecutor's Office may act in such circumstances. We do not leave any diabolical evidence to the Public Prosecutor's Office, we do not leave any present poisoned to whoever it is and we act on that measure. We understand that, for the general public, the tax procedure can punish unjustified enrichment. We are prepared to discuss amounts, methods — we do not intend to have a final and strict proposal in all aspects — the possible constitutional conformity of a norm which, for us, is absolutely secondary in the whole of the planning we are proposing. We will be at ease and with great commitment to do this debate. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to stress that the bill that the majority presents to us has a quite obvious difficulty. For the sake of democracy and debate, I must say that the problem of the legal good to be protected — in fact, this has been a matter of intervention here several times — is not defined. As far as the fundamental tasks of the State are concerned, I am not going to re-read everything that is detailed below because the proponents felt that in detailing a set of circumstances, he would answer the question of the Constitutional Court. in our view, it does not respond to the question of the Constitutional Court and creates a heteroclitic, strange criminal type, because it is a kind of modern "majesty crime", it is all and it is almost nothing. Therefore, it is not clearly defined the legal good to protect, for us the duty of special transparency of the State. But what does that come from? The same type of crime occurs in the same circumstances as political agents, state officials and citizens in general. It is that, the pretext of a certain interpretation of the principle of equality, or of immediate convenience, because it is both punishing a banker as a politician, and the politician is not harmed in relation to any other kind of citizen—I believe that it is a manifestly closer view of this process—if the type of crime is applied exclusively, at least at this stage, to political leaders, they can easily assign the special duty of transparency. The problem is that, by extending the crime both to the private sector and to the public sector, in fact, to citizens in general, there is a huge difficulty in declaring what kind of crime is and, more importantly, in ensuring that this crime is justified as an autonomous crime, in the case of citizens who have no special political responsibility. I really believe that there is an injury to the principle of equality when, in relation to political citizens, there is, yes, a aggravated declaratory regime that has nothing to do with the general regime of citizens. I believe, moreover, that there is a practical difficulty, an inexhaustibility, to ensure that the tax machine that we have operates in good time for all citizens' tax returns. Therefore, we have the greatest doubts about the constitutionality of this process and the error of petition in principle that it closes, which is not to separate the responsibilities of politicians, democracy, from other problems in general, which, in fact, are already laid down in catalogues, in criminal law and therefore should not pollute, influence or act indirectly on an appropriate, effective and proportionate law of control of the wealth of holders of political positions and of high public positions. Without duty, without fear of anything, raised in front of the citizens and before the citizens is the challenge that democracy faces. Some of us are accused of presenting a bill on unjustified enrichment — the second initiative we propose — which is confiscating because it provides a 100 % rate for the generality of the citizens. I would like — because I believe that we have criticisms on the right, not only — of recalling a statement made a few years ago by Mr Fernando Negrão on behalf of the PSD when illegal enrichment was discussed. Mr Fernando Negrão asked: 'If the enrichment is not fully justified, why is it not the same rate by 100 %, since the 40% that the Government intends to leave to the enriched...' — at the time, the Government of the Socialist Party — '...will be a prize for its ability to cheat the tax? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is not about confiscating clearly legitimate, clearly legitimate incomes. This is to reverse, in loss to the State, an unjustified enrichment differential. It is not necessary to ascertain the origin — this also refers to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. There is no need to ascertain an illegal origin in this income. It is necessary to ascertain that this is a disproportionate and unjustified income. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the challenge is today. I think this debate must be open to society as a whole. It is a debate that can help to consolidate democracy, give it a social feeling, give it a political configuration that is much closer to citizens and citizens, or, then, insist on inviolable ways, or perhaps, on very terrible sophistications, but which only bring rigidity in the political treatment of the problem. And this sophistication may have intellectual merit, but it certainly will not benefit citizens and citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u52	The next intervention is by Mrs Teresa Anjinho of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, we must recognize that we are at a time when the phenomenon of corruption is very present, not only in the lives of specialists or the Academy, but in particular in the lives of the common citizen. The democratic States, as Mr Luís Fazenda has pointed out, are faced with an increased need to protect themselves against the phenomenon of corruption. We cannot accept corruption as an inevitability of the system. It is, in fact, fundamental, as has been said so many times, to put into practice everything possible to counter it. of public and legislative policies to the exercise of the judiciary, I have no doubt that we should clearly bet on strengthening measures of a preventive and repressive nature, and in this framework, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is indisputable that the State plays an important role in the field of monitoring, awareness-raising and accountability. However, it is no less true that for the prevention of corruption to be a fact, citizens also have the important role to play and to respond positively. In other words, if we want to be effective, the solution must be structural, acting up and down to this reality, both at the level of monitoring and the means, and at the level of awareness, recognizing in education one of the greatest allies against the cultural rooting of this phenomenon, transversal to society as a whole. We recognize that this effort and this bet are actually being made. Recently, and deserves to be highlighted, Portugal rose two positions in the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index, being in 2014 no. 31. the place. The effort is being made and we all recognise that something has changed, so we too adhere to a fight that is clearly transversal to all parties. In fact, the diplomas in debate, being different from one another, seem, in fact, to communicate from the same vision and recognition of the problem, diverging, as one perceives, into the strategy. We therefore welcome the various initiatives to this end. for our part, we recognize that the case has not been easy and that the Constitutional Court judgment has demanded an increased effort. That is what we have done, in the strict recognition that this is a path to which we have been committed and a necessary path to reality, even if we assume it with challenges. The criminalization of illicit enrichment thus introduces, within the legal-criminal framework, another instrument which, without exempting other policies and actions, can, in our view, contribute effectively to its prevention, transmitting to the community a clear message of censure in relation to this type of behaviour.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u55	As it may be designated, there is a legal good with clear criminal dignity, inherent in the rule of law principle, which is the trust or credibility of the State in relation to the collective and resulting capacity of intervention. This recognition alone legitimizes the legislator to impose the transparency of the heritage situation, not only those to whom it is responsible functionally to prepare, demonstrate or execute the will of the State, but of all citizens. And here is exactly one of our differences, as has already been well highlighted, in relation to the diploma of the Socialist Party, which we understand, however, do not follow exactly because we recognize that corruption is transversal to the whole society and many of these situations, equally harmful and threatening the pillars of a democratic rule of law, occur outside the sphere—even more scrutinyed and justified—of the holders of political and equal positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u57	In this regard, it is noted that we already consider it important to reflect and consider the enlargement of the universe of persons subject to the obligation to declare heritage, and to this end we consider the Socialist Party's proposal more thoughtful. Moreover, in the past the CDS has been even further and, on behalf of the credibility of the various actors in political life, whether they hold political positions or holders of high public positions — which must be a priority and a permanent concern — we advocate the uniformization of the various regimes of interest registers, bringing closer to the legal regime applicable to the authorities of the legal regime enshrined in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u58	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u59	But if we allow ourselves to consider this issue, we already have a lot of difficulty in following up on others, also in debate, in particular the proposal of the Left to Create a new figure at the Constitutional Court — such a transparency entity of the holders of political positions and high public positions — with configuration and skills that raise us many doubts about the current model ( to the budgetary point of view, Mr Luís Fazenda ),...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u61	... or the draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party on offshore (even recognizing that there has been an advance in this matter, Mr. João Oliveira ), which seems to somehow ignore not only the principle of extraterritoriality, such as the work the Government has done, and continues to do, in combating tax and customs fraud and evasion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u62	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u63	Recently, the Ministry of Finance announced the strategic plan for 2015 - 2017, announcing 40 measures and some of which exactly touch on these issues. Moreover, it is impossible to forget what has also been done in these matters, particularly with regard to the strengthening of information exchange mechanisms, which have been very effective and have been widely recognised. In conclusion, I leave a final note concerning the PCP bill on illicit enrichment. In fact, the path found is one way. We recognize in your preamble the response they seek to give to the Constitutional Court judgment and also the attempt to respond to the tax framework. However, we doubt that this is the most effective answer to the problem in question. In short, the CDS is available, as it has always been, to debate proposals aimed at preventing and combating corruption, increasing and improving transparency. On behalf of the same transparency of intentions and good political practice, we have already stressed that we have a lot of doubts about some of the proposals under discussion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u64	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been said today in transparency in combating corruption and illicit, unjustified, disproportionate or undeclared enrichment. Regardless of the differences in vision of the world and the things that the proponents of all the projects that have been discussed have, they are all imbued with a meritorious sense and welcome to improve the functioning of the political system and to restore the confidence of the Portuguese and its political agents. However, this debate should be a reflection in all of us on some lines of evolution that we should look at for our political system — perhaps our greatest challenge. After all, what women and men do we want as political agents? Should the political system really give in to temptation and evolve through direct and immediate impulses of media populism? How to achieve the fair balance between the demands of transparency in public life and the rebuttal of the illusory design of a politician who demagogy media or necessarily asseptic and bacteriologically pure? How can we reconcile the existence of a political system containing the institutional mechanisms capable of hindering any abusive behaviour with the indispensable idea that those who choose to play political positions are not, nor can they be, citizens placed, a priori and inevitably, under public suspicion and therefore fatally diminished in their capacity to exercise rights?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u67	And that, of course, because they will be subject to active and passive obligations and duties of personal scrutiny which would most likely be considered unbearable for any other citizen. in recent decades, in the generality of Western democracies, often with the flow of highly mediated cases of corruption in politics, it has gradually been installed, in parts of public opinion, a depreciative view of politics, especially with regard to parliamentary activity. Politicians, in these smooth analyses, would suffer from endemic dishonesty, irremediable impreparation and a natural vocation for the practice of various evils. In good rigour, this pejorative vision is not a novelty. All, but all, the despotic degenerations that last century knew began their course with the systematic abrupting of the logics of the functioning of the democracies and their protagonists, exacerbating their defects and taking advantage of their weaknesses. Classic examples among us can be found in the fierce anti-parliamentary campaign that was also at the origin of May 28, 1926 and of the New State, which so much liked to oppose itself, referring to the so-called « blappling» of the Republic. Today, a similar course seems to be being made by populisms without ideology and purely populist ideologies, both killed by generalizations about politicians now available in new digital packages. Knowing how to defend democracies against those who, using them, want to overthrow them, is one of the greatest challenges of our contemporary life. And I have great concerns about whether the best remedy to defend the rule of democratic law is to give in to the pressures of those who, consciously or not, sponsor the "state of non-law" in the expression of Gomes Canotilho. We must all ask whether it will be logical, democratic and effective to assimilate the diffuse version, made of coffee sentences and the insindicable wisdom of tabloid titles, which usually ensure that it is only possible to perfect the political system by imposing charges and withholding rights to those whose first duty is to assert the rights of all others. in an apparent guilt complex, democratic political agents, everywhere, have come down with populist demagogy. Only this one — no one is wrong! — it will never cease to demonize, irrespective of the degree of transition. It is clear that the greater the decision-making responsibility, the more increased the public examination duties of this activity - this is an essential condition for the credibility of policy. But this can never reach the limit of a kind of demining capital for those who perform political functions or functions in high public positions. The response taken by the initiatives discussed here seems to lie in finding the balance between the requirements for transparency of the system and the dignity inherent in the political function. We must implement a system with clear, robust and consistent rules of operation that do not have the undesirable effect of minimizing those who, at a certain point in their lives, have resolved to make the best of their efforts for the benefit of the public and their community. It is in this sense that these initiatives are directed. And that is also what is expected to be achieved in the debate of the specialty, which will start from today. I hope we all know that we are up to this moment, realizing that the values of the transparency of the system and the probity of its agents are unthinkable. But these will only be implemented if politics and politicians are respected and those who have failed to respect will never be respected. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u68	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention. There is no longer much time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u69	Madam President, I know. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have signed up to do this precisely following Mr Abreu Amorim's words. Mr President, I would like to say that I agree with the essentials of these words, but I must express a perplexity to you: your approach completely contradicts the approach made so far by Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we watch a party, or maybe a system, two speeches and two approaches. If your position contradicted, on a declarative basis, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho's position, they would resolve this between them. But, Mr Abreu Amorim, I want to tell you with all sincerity that, in keeping with the essentials of your intervention, I cannot see how you will support the project of your party, because the project of your party is the complete denial of the values you have defended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u70	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention. It also has little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u71	Madam President, I will try to contain myself within the time available. I am recording only two elements which I believe are important in this discussion. The first concerns the progress made in this discussion on the questions of unjustified or undeclared enrichment, according to the terminology you prefer. This is a debate that, over the years, for good and bad reasons, has come to have some highlights. We hope that, with this discussion and with the process in the specialty that will begin now, once and for all, all concerns of unconstitutionality will be removed, ensuring mechanisms that safeguard constitutional principles, which must be preserved and defended until the last circumstances. In this regard, Mr Jorge Lacão, we fully agree and note that in the speeches made by Mr Lacão there has been no critical reference to the CFP project related to this matter. That is to say, we note as very positive the fact that no difficulties have been identified in terms of unconstitutionality in relation to the draft law of the CFP, because we have indeed made this effort. We made the effort to bring to the discussion a bill that, seeking to criminalize unjustified enrichment, does so in constitutional terms. Therefore, we noted as very positive the appreciation that was made to the PCP project by the other benches, because we had this care and took it very seriously. On the subject of offshore issues, we hope that, with the discussion we can make on this process, in the speciality of the initiatives that the CFP has brought to the discussion, the Assembly of the Republic may for the first time take a clear position on the position of the Portuguese State with regard to its existence, pointing to its extinction. This finding has emerged over the years in the debate. From now on, with the projects that the PCP has brought, we have the possibility to affirm this path to end offshore and so that, until then, measures can be taken that guarantee the fight against crime, which uses precisely the biombo of offshore to hide practices and procedures that feed it or benefit from it. We hope that, with this speciality process, the Assembly of the Republic may find a way to affirm a position of refusal on the part of the Portuguese State of this state of affairs, which is now increasingly evident in the face of examples that denounce this reality of financing or benefit of crime from offshore. The contribution that the CFP has made is, in fact, a pioneer. We have no illusion that this path can be made one day at a time, but we need to take the first steps, and that is the proposal that the CFP has brought to this debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, both with regard to unjustified enrichment, or with regard to the extinction of offshores, hope that this process which begins today will result in a clear and firm position of the Assembly of the Republic to overcome these two serious problems affecting Portuguese society. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u72	The debate is thus concluded. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 194 presences, to which are added those of the PS, Pedro Delgado Alves, and Michael Seufert, of the CDS-PP, making 196 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have three pessimistic votes, which will be read and voted on. in the end we will keep a minute of silence. Therefore, to read vote No 255 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of António Sousa Gomes, politician and manager ( PS ), Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u73	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote is as follows: « He died last February 20 at 79 years of age, Antonio Francisco Barroso de Sousa Gomes. Born in Lisbon, in January 1936, António Sousa Gomes, licensed in Mechanical Engineering by the Higher Technical Institute, performed, with high dedication, various government positions and the administration of the State. Militant of the Socialist Party, Antonio Sousa Gomes was Minister of Industry and Technology and Minister of the Plan and Economic Coordination, in the I Constitutional Government, and Minister of Housing and Public Works, in the II Constitutional Government. Between 1983 and 1991, he was President of the IPE Board of Directors, Investments and Corporate Participations, S.A. , performing identical functions in the General Development Company between 1987 and 1991. In 1992, he was elected to the General Assembly of Shareholders for the post of President of the Board of Directors of CIMPOR — Cimentos cie Portugal, SGPS, S.A. , having its role was decisive in making this cement group one of the ten largest to operate on the world market. Remembering António Sousa Gomes is to remember a prominent politician and an insignia manager, who left a brand of enormous competence and probity in all positions and functions performed, in particular by the decisive contribution, in the public sector and in the private sector, to the design of development strategies in our country and measures to improve and boost the growth of the national economy. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Antonio Sousa Gomes and sends condolences to his family».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now turn to vote No 256 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of musician Fernando Alvim ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP, BE, The Greens and PCP ), who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u75	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote is as follows: « The musician Fernando Alvin died last February 27th. Born in Cascais on November 6, 1934, Fernando Gui San Payo de Sousa Alvin was one of the most remarkable Portuguese musicians. He started his musical training through the cello, turning to the study of the classical guitar already in youth, at the School of Guitar of Professor Duarte Costa, in Lisbon, going to the classical guitar course of the National Conservatory. at the age of 21, he began his guitar career, playing as a companion in amateur fado houses, such as in April in Portugal or in Luso, next to artists such as Luz Sá da Bandeira or Vicente da Câmara. The year 1959 marks the beginning of an intense partnership of decades with Carlos Paredes, to whom he was guessing the paths and with whom he walked stages all over the world, having performed the recording of numerous records, participated in plays such as Budas de Sangue and La Casa de Bernarda Alba, de Federico Garcia Lorca, o O Render dos Heroes, de José Cardoso Pires, and films, notably under the direction of Paulo Rocha, in The Greens Years( 1962 ) and Change of Life( 1966 ). from his vast career, mirrored in 35 works of his authorship, and intense activity, which led him to collaborate with the Green-Gaio Group and with the Gulbenkian Ballet, still register for the Guitars Set by Fernando Alvim 1969, which founded with Pedro Caldeira Cabral, Antonio Luís Gomes and Edmundo Silva and for the master's collaborations with Antonio Chainho, Janita Salome and even with the Sitiados group. Fernando Alvim, who assumed to like‘(...) to accompany and harmonise, to take tones’, recorded in 1969 the time-contemporal theme Stone Philosophal, next to Manuel Freire, the year in which he is also invited by Amália Rodrigues to record the theme Antiga baga nostri, by Alexandre O' Neil and Alain Oulman. But, of all his works, it is complicity with Carlos Paredes that stands out most. Never claiming for yourself any protagonist, Fernando Alvim was of the few musicians with the talent and versatility necessary to keep track of the brilliant guitarist's creativity and energy. He did it with passion and description, and although he had a fundamental role in the creative involvement of the music of Walls, he always considered it necessary ‘ (...) a certain errand, to follow without great juggling. ’ His passion for the fairy, who said he had started at the age of 14, after hearing Amália sing, never abandoned him, having more recently collaborated with Carlos do Carmo, Ana Moura, Camané, Pedro Joya or Ricardo Pereira. Jazz and the new boss are others of their passions, which allowed him to collaborate with musicians and artists as diverse as Adriano Correia de Oliveira, Caetano Veloso, Charlie Hayden, Chico Buarque, José Carlos Ary dos Santos, Vinícius de Moraes, José Afonso, Rão Kyao, Teresa Salgueiro, among many others. A discreet and delicate man, wanted to be remembered ‘(...) as a mere companion of fairy and guitars’, but it was a virtuous who, for more than five decades, thanks to his talent and generosity, allowed ‘to let others shine. ’ On June 7, 2005, he was thanked with the Medal of Cultural Merit, awarded by the Cascais Municipal Chamber, and in 2012 with the Medal of Honor of the Portuguese Society of Authors, as a form of recognition for the work of decades at the service of the dignity of Portuguese music that he owes him much. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays due tribute to Fernando Alvim and sends condolences to his family, his friends and colleagues in music and in the canton».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that was finally read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, vote No 257 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — In spite of the death of former deputy de Amadeu Ferreira ( PS, PSD and CDS-PP ) will be read by Secretary Raúl de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u77	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote is of the following content: « It was with regret and profound dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the passing of Amadeu Ferreira, one of the main responsible for promoting the Miradense on 1 March. Born in Sendim, Miranda do Douro, in July 1950, Amadeu Ferreira was the President of the Association of the Mirandese Language and Culture. After acting as a lawyer, he was a member of the Board of Directors and Vice-President of the Committee on the Securities Market, and in the words of his President Carlos Tavares, given the essential contribution to making it back to the respected institution that is during the 23 that he worked there. Author and translator of a vast work in Portuguese and Miradense, also with the pseudonyms Francisco Niebro, Marcus Miranda and the Red Foundation, Amadeu Ferreira leaves an immense legacy, which includes the translation into the Miradense of The Four Gospels, of The Lusiadas, of the Message or works of Horácio, Vergílio and Catulo, among others. Theirs are also La buba de la Tenerie, Countes de Tiu Jouquin, Lhéngua Mirandesa — Manifesto Form of Hyno and Say Deziers / Proverbios Mirandese. Member of the Assembly of the Republic (in the Second Parliament), President of the Academy of Letters of Trás-os-Montes, Member of the General Council of the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança and Professor Invited from the Faculty of Law of the New University of Lisbon, he also collaborated with various media bodies such as the Journal of the Northeast, the Messenger of Bragança, the Diário de Trás-os-Montes, the Public and the Radio Miradum FM. Man of conviction and principles, he was thanked in 2004 with the Order of Merit of the Portuguese Republic, by the hands of the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. Associated with the official recognition of linguistic rights of the Miradense community, Amadeu Ferreira leaves an indelible mark in valuing the immense Miradense heritage, constituting his death an irreparable loss to the national culture. in his biography, posthumous work, Belheç-Velhice, released yesterday at the Faculty of Law of the New University of Lisbon, can be read, by the hand of his pseudonym Fracisco Niebro, that « (...) There is a time to be born and a time to die. The soul cannot fly to heaven. If so, how could new things be born? This is the resurrection of souls: they are new lives, it is all that lives. That is why it is wrong to bury people in the graveyard: they should bury them through the fields to help the souls to be born. Thus, God, whoever he is, has much more work». The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret over the death of Amadeu Ferreira, expressing its dismay to the people and the municipality of Miranda do Douro, and sending condolences to his family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u78	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that was finally read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the vote on the Rules of Procedure, beginning with the vote on draft resolution No 1287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Paris ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No. 279 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, updating the definition of terrorism. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we just voted down to 1. the Commission. We shall also, in general, vote on Bill No 280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), laying down new grounds for the granting of nationality by naturalization and for the opposition to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 101 / 2001 of 25 August establishing the legal regime for actions covered for the purpose of prevention and criminal investigation, allowing all illegal acts related to terrorism to be included in the actions covered. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] This bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 282 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January establishing measures to combat organised and economic-financial crime in order to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 283 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 52 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 ( Counter-Terrorism Act), criminalising public apology and displacements for the practice of the crime of terrorism. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 284/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 11 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory, amending the grounds for the granting and cancellation of visas and for the application of the ancillary expulsion penalty. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Let us now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 285 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended third Act No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Criminal Investigation Organization Act to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, amending the composition of the Higher Council for Internal Security and the organization and operation of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. Let us now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 797 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 25 / 2008 of 5 June ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, the bill we just voted down to 1. the Commission. The vote on an application by the PSD and the CDS-PP shall follow, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works, without a 30-day vote on the proposal for law No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of the approval of this request, Bill No 287 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service, which, in the case of the competent committee, is 6. the Commission, without a vote. We now vote in general on Bill No. 771 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June aimed at a more equitable sanction scheme in situations of non-compliance with the payment of toll rates on road infrastructure ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. I now ask Vice-President Guilherme Silva to replace me in the Chair of the Bureau. [[At the moment, Vice-President Guilherme Silva was chaired.]] Mrs. Members, let us then proceed with the votes, starting with the general vote on Bill No 796 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June approving the sanctioning regime applicable to infringements of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates ( PSD and CDS-PP ) is due. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u79	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u80	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u81	Mr President, I would just like to announce that, for the last two votes, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u82	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u83	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u84	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u85	Mr President, I would just like to clarify that with regard to draft law No 771 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) submitted by the Socialist Party, the voting orientation given by the PSD Parliamentary Group bench was abstention, and I believe that there will have been a wrong interpretation by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u86	Mr President, as you can imagine, I was not in the Chair of the Bureau at that vote, but, of course, we took note and was registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u87	Mr. President, right now, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u88	Please, Mr. Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u89	Mr President, I did not realize that there had been different readings, but the meaning of the CDS-PP vote, with regard to the same legislative initiative is also abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u90	So, ladies. Members, recapitulating, Bill No. 771 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment to Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June aimed at a more equitable sanction scheme in situations of non-compliance with the payment of toll rates on road infrastructure ( PS ) was approved with votes in favour of PS and PSA, CDS-PP, CCP, BE and Os Verdes. We shall continue with the general vote on draft law No 794 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend toll collection arrangements until they are eliminated in defence of the rights of users of motorways ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 799 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of toll rates ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 800 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Withdraws jurisdiction to the finance service for the establishment and instruction of procedures for counter-ordination for non-payment of toll rates ( eighth amendment of Law No 25 / 2006 of 30 June 2006 approving the sanction scheme for infringements of road infrastructure where the payment of toll rates is due) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 802 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prevents situations of abusive application of fines and other costs in cases of non-payment of tolls ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u91	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u92	I'm asking the ladies. Members who, during the vote, do not manifest themselves and allow the vote to take place with the necessary rigour, attention and silence. We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the clearance of the final beneficiaries of the financial transactions which have read the BES and the Portuguese State ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] [[PCP protests.]] [[It's from PSD:—Chiu!....]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u93	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that they be held during the vote and during the announcement of their results, that is, during the whole process we are continuing. We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 765 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Transparency of holders of political positions and high public positions ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE and Les Verdes and abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 766 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combat unjustified enrichment ( BE). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE and Les Verdes and abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 782/ XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( thirty-fifth amendment to the Penal Code approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the CFP and the Greens and with abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP and BE.]] The diploma is also lower than 1. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on an application by the CFP for a discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 803 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ) and draft resolution No 1286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the adoption by the Portuguese State of a national and international action plan for the extinction of offshore centres ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, as a result of this vote, the diplomas subject to this request go directly down to 1 without a vote. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 798 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Illicit enrichment ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted on in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens and PS, the PCP and the BE.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u94	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u95	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u96	Mr. President, to inform you that, with regard to the projects of lein.o 766 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), 782/ XII ( 4. ( a ) and 798 / XII ( 4. (a) electronically sent the declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u97	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u98	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u99	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u100	Mr President, even with regard to the previous vote, I would also like to announce to the Bureau the delivery of a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u101	It is also registered, Mr. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to announce your explanations of vote in advance so as not to disturb the subsequent vote. Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No 801 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the control regime for unwarranted or undeclared property increases of holders of political and comparable positions ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the Greens and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the BE.]] This bill also falls to 1. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish mechanisms to ensure timely payment of contracts for the provision of public education services to private and cooperative schools ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u102	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u103	You have the floor to Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u104	Mr President, to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u105	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u106	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u107	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u108	Mr President, I inform you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u109	It is also registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1253 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — suspension of demolition on the Isles of the Formosa River ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1279 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, as a matter of urgency, an in-depth reflection on the planned interventions for the Formosa River and its consequences for the populations, suspending, with immediate effect, all ongoing actions involving the demolition of dwellings until compliance with the principle of equality and the right to housing ( PS ) are ensured. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1282 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of demolition in the Formosa River ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u110	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u111	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u112	Mr President, in order to announce to the Bureau that the CFP Parliamentary Group, in respect of the last three votes, intends to make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u113	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u114	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u115	Mr President, in exactly the same sense, announcing the intention to make an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u116	I also give the floor to Mr. Miguel Freitas, who asked for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u117	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group intends to make an oral vote on the subject we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u118	Mr Artur Rego also asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u119	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that we will make an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u120	Mrs. Members, we follow the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, on the proposal for a law No 278 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the scheme which creates the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector approved by Article 228. the Law No 83 - C / 2013, of 31 December. [[The vote was taken and voted on in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens and PS, the PCP and the BE.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics and Public Works on the proposal for a law No 275 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Approves the new Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour, on draft law No 680 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — expressly commends gender identity in the field of the right to equality in access to employment and at work, making the fifth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, in accordance with Article 155. the Rules of Procedure, oral explanations of vote are provided for only in the event of a comprehensive final vote of diplomas. Consequently, on draft resolutions there are no oral explanations of vote here. in this measure, he asked Mrs. Members who have expressed this intention to bring their explanations of vote to the Bureau in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u121	But there is an announcement from everyone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u122	It seems to me that this has been the reading that the Bureau has made, so I do not think we are now in a position to change. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u123	Mr President, there is indeed a record of oral explanations of vote on draft resolutions, including in other legislatures. I can give the example of the draft resolution on the ratification of the London Agreement, in which both Mr Ribeiro and Mr Castro make an oral statement. I therefore believe that with the manifestation of intent of all the benches to make oral explanations of vote the announcement is tacitly considered and I believe that the consensus is registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u124	Mrs. Members, if there is consensus of all the seats, of course the Bureau will not object. I'm asking for that confirmation. [[Pause.]] PSD and CDS-PP disagree. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u125	Mr President, I just want to record that it is by imposing the PSD and the CDS-PP that this precedent is broken and that oral explanations of vote are not possible in this case. Obviously you realize that PSD and CDS-PP do not want to talk about demolition issues in the Formosa River, but you will have to face them. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u126	Mr. João Oliveira was clear when he said that he had a record of precedent in a different sense in previous legislature. The Bureau has the idea that there was no precedent in this legislation. In spite of this, the Bureau would be open to give the floor to the Members if there were a consensus. Members to give oral explanations of vote, but we will not, if there is, maintain the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, and would therefore ask the Members. Members who delivered their explanations of vote in writing. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor. But it is not worth it, I think, to continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u127	Mr President, I would just like to clarify that the PSD and the CDS-PP did not impose anything. Those who impose this limitation are the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u128	They don't want to discuss it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u129	I have no idea — I am here a number of legislatures, there are more until Mr Oliveira — this precedent or its framework, if it happened eventually. Let's be very clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have no intention of imposing anything, we comply with the Rules of Procedure. This matter has been debated, it has been voted on, ladies and gentlemen. Members may present the explanations of vote in writing and may have other initiatives. The PSD, for example, today presented a draft resolution on this subject. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u130	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u131	Mr President, I would like to say that we share the understanding of the Bureau. There is an express norm, and being an express norm it is clear that it binds us all. If there were precedents, they were manifestly exceptional. But there is something that I cannot, as an interlocutor, pass on to the people who are watching us, which is a very simple thing: it is not us who are making this matter impossible for us to discuss, because it was discussed in committee. And it was discussed by whom? By option of PCP and Left Block. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] If they wanted, they would have discussed the matter here in plenary. This is the priority they give to the matter! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I would therefore like to conclude by making it clear that we have complied with the law and that we follow the reading of the law, the Bureau and Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u132	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u133	Mr President, it is precisely in the terms of previous speakers that the existence of a consensus to make oral explanations of vote on this matter was visible in this House. This consensus was broken by the leadership of the PSD and CDS-PP banks curiously when their colleagues in the region even wanted to talk about it. So if anyone does not really want to make an observation, have an opinion on this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u134	It's the Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u135	...is the majority, who wants to shut up, when I should talk about it. It is the heavy consciousness of the directions that would be spied out by Mr. Members of the region. We realize, after all, that there is no desire to debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u136	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u137	Mr President, I asked the Bureau to make an inquiry on the following: Mr Nuno Magalhães was rigorous when he said that this issue was discussed in the committee on the initiative of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u138	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u139	It was the PCP that led the committee to discuss demolition in the Formosa River. But I wanted to add something to this rigour: the CFP proposed scheduling in committee because demolition is happening and that was the only urgent way to respond to a problem that is happening! We couldn't stay two months waiting for the issue to be scheduled in plenary! [[PCP applause.]] What is regrettable is that the PSD and CDS-PP have prevented the discussion...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u140	Sir, please finish. We've been clear about the reasons...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u141	... of the initiative in the Assembly of the Republic and they also want to prevent the statements of vote. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u142	Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor. He asked us to be brief and not to prolong this incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u143	Mr President, I think we all understand what happened here. We all realize that, in fact, the majority once again sought that this matter did not have a clear discussion in this plenary. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] He tried to prevent the debate in the committee and prevented all parties from making statements of vote here. As has been said, and very well, by the honourable Members. Members of the Communist Party and the Left Block, it is more than clear that demolition is now taking place and what was fundamental was that there was a decision in order for it to be stopped. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u144	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor. I wish we would not prolong this incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u145	Mr. President, I do not intend to prolong. In fact, I have been very brief in my inquiry recently, but it is clear that I cannot make it clear that the opposition parties say that we are impermissible the discussion of whatever it is. We are not imperiling any discussion! In our agenda there was no discussion of this matter, the vote was taken, and it was carried out. The right of all Members to submit written explanations of vote is the right of all Members. Mr President, the matter has been discussed in committee and will indeed be discussed in plenary, but it will be because, unlike the CFP and the Left Block, the PSD will schedule, at the Leaders Conference, the draft resolution it tabled on this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So to those who think we are afraid to debate whatever it is I say with all clarity and transparency: we are able to discuss everything and we will discuss this matter. [[PCP protests.]] Mr President, I would just like to leave a final note so that one thing is also clear: Mr. João Oliveira, as I understand it, has alluded to a precedent which had to do with a resolution, but which was a resolution that approved a treaty, which has a force different from the draft resolutions we voted here before.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-06.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is clarified and overcome. The gentlemen. Members shall submit, if they so agree, written explanations of vote. The next meeting will take place on Wednesday, 11 March, at 3 p.m., and will take place on the agenda of the fifteenth-year debate with the Prime Minister and the debate, also with the participation of the Prime Minister in the preparation of the European Council, which takes place under Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Act of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union building process. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 20 minutes.]]
