ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. I am going to give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and the drafts of lein.os have been accepted by the President : 946 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Palhalis, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), 947 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Barreiro, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), 948 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Verderena, in the district of Barreiro, Setúbal district ( PCP ), 949 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Golden parish, in the municipality of Covilhã, district of Castelo Branco ( PCP ), 950 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Casegas, in the municipality of Covilhã, district of Castelo Branco ( PCP ), 951 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of Tramaga parish in the municipality of Ponte de Sor, Portalegre district ( PCP ), 952 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Vale de Azor, in the municipality of Ponte de Sor, Portalegre district ( PCP ), 953 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Ponte de Sor, in the municipality of Ponte de Sor, Portalegre district ( PCP ), 954 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of Chouto parish in the municipality of Chamusca, Santarém district ( PCP ), 955 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish parish in the municipality of Chamusca, Santarém district ( PCP ), 956 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Foz do Douro, in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), 958 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Massarelos parish in the municipality of Porto, port district ( PCP ), 959 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September 2009 - Compensation scheme for victims of violent crimes and domestic violence ( PCP ), 960 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Change the Securities Code, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 961 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 962 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by the Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( thirty-sixth amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ) ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 963 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies and the legal framework of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, providing for specific measures to strengthen the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 964 / XII ( 4. ( a ).......................................................................... the Commission and 965 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Other electoral laws, allowing advance voting to patients who are unable to move or move by their own means to the voting tables ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions : 1485 / XII ( 4 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — proposes the extension of the transitional scheme for the completion of the degree of Doctor and effective recruitment with public links of public higher education teachers ( CFP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1486 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent intervention in the recovery and recovery of the Buçaco forest and its architectural heritage in view of its recognition as a world heritage of humanity ( PS ), which falls to 8. Commission, 1487 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the recomposition and immobilization of assets held by the Espírito Santo Group, the Banco Espírito Santo and the members of the GES Superior Council ( PCP ), 1488 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the public control of credit institutions and financial corporations with relevance to Portuguese economic policy and financial system, considering the segregation of financial and non-financial components in mixed groups ( CFP ), 1489 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of challenges with a view to strengthening the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ), 1490 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of restrictive measures in the marketing of risk financial products by credit institutions and financial corporations ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1491 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make efforts in the supranational sphere to make the financial system more transparent ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1492 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to promote and ensure efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory entities — Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Pension Funds ( ASF ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1493/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures leading to an increase in short-term financial literacy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Resolution No 114 / XII ( 4 ) was also introduced into the Bureau. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Transfer and Exchange of Contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014 which falls to 2. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission and the proposals of lein. 334 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Legal Scheme for Auditing by transposing Directive 2014 / 56 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2006 / 43 / EC on the legal review of annual and consolidated accounts, and ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) No 537 / 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements for the legal review of public interest entities, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 335 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Transposing Directive 2013 / 11 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, establishes the legal framework for non-judicial settlement mechanisms for consumer disputes, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u3	Mrs. Members, Mr President of the Republic sent a message to the Assembly of the Republic concerning the second amendment to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation relating to private copy. The message is as follows: « Having enacted Decree No 320 / XII of the Assembly of the Republic, which approves the ‘Second Amendment to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September, which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation for private copy » I understood to address that Assembly, in the use of the faculty provided for in Article 133 ( d ). the Constitution, the following message: 1 — I have promulgated this Decree after it has been confirmed by an absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness as provided for in Article 136. the, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. 2 — Without prejudice to the grounds set out in the message accompanying the non-promulgation return of Decree No 320 / XII, there are elements which should have justified a recompensation of the solutions contained in the approved regime. 3 — In fact, the Court of Justice of the European Union, in the recent judgment of 5 March ( C-463 / 12, Copydan Båndkopi ) not only refused that the adoption of equitable private copy compensation would result from the imposition of Directive 2001 / 29 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001, as stated the need to conform national legislation to that directive by limiting the excesses of the law of private copy in respect of equitable compensation. The Court of Justice of the European Union ruled in the above-mentioned judgment that, although the Directive in question does not preclude the adoption of a law of the private copy imposing the obligation of equitable compensation for the acquisition of devices, such compensation is subject to tight limits. In any case, it is clear from the judgment that States have wide freedom to pass legislation on this matter or not. 4 — On 6 May 2015 the Commission sent a communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions calling for a single strategy for the European digital market. in this document, the Commission undertakes to present legislative initiatives during 2015 to achieve this objective, notably in the field of digital portability, establishing clear rules for cross-border trade in data and measures to protect intellectual property and compensation of authors. in this regard, I believe that in the regulation of the matter relating to the private copy approved by the Assembly of the Republic, an adequate and balanced weighting was not made of all interests in the presence, taking into account, inter alia, the need to ensure effective and real protection of the rights of authors and creators who do not entail unjustified costs for consumers nor affect the development of the digital economy, a sector of strategic importance for Portugal in a context of great competitiveness on a global scale. Belem Palace, May 25, 2015 The President of the Republic, Aníbal Cavaco Silva ». Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of a current debate required by the PS, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the theme « Threat made by the Government of Pension Cuts ». Since the debate is on the initiative of the PS, this party is the first intervention, so I give the floor to Mr Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The majority of PSD/CDS adopted on 24 April a parliamentary resolution to support the stability programme submitted by the Government on 17 April. This programme describes the medium-term macroeconomic and budgetary framework for Portugal, and as stated by the Government itself, it is decisive « for the appropriate articulation of economic and budgetary policies ». It aims to define a budgetary strategy for the period 2015 to 2019, which, according to the Government, « respecting the applicable European framework and the principle of sustainability of public finances », allows « the gradual deterioration of the sacrifices required by the Portuguese ». In addition, sacrifices "required" to the Portuguese who became "required" to the Portuguese, in the version of the Stability Programme sent to Brussels. It is clear from this document that the budget framework for the four-year period presupposes the implementation of a set of measures in pension systems which have a permanent impact of EUR 600 million. It is therefore indisputable that the majority and the Government have taken a decision on the pension system, have quantified that decision and incorporated that decision into the communication to the European Commission. There is therefore no articulation of parliamentary dialectics or media strategy that can hide this fact — the amount and the objective. It has been said, of course, that the realization of this decision was not stabilized, but essentially, the objective and the value nobody can deny it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, in order to avoid doubt, the proposal already rejected by the Constitutional Court has been simulated in accordance with the Government — cut by EUR 372 million in paid pensions and increased taxes and taxes for the rest. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members : We do not know whether the government has estimated the effect of this measure on the economy, we do not know what its net budgetary effect will be. But we know something about the recent experience: the cut-off of paid pensions was of the most restrictive measures the Portuguese economy has lived through the years of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we know something else. We know that pensioners' income has not only been affected by pension cuts. The huge increase in taxes, carried out by the majority PSD / CDS, had a privileged target in pensioners. Just one example: a pension of 1000 € from an isolated pensioner saw his IRS grow between 2011 and 2015, 2, 7 times. The tax effect, only the tax effect, fell in the nominal pension of that citizen about 8 % in these years. It is time to realize that pension income is today, more than ever, not only pensioner incomes but, yes, a fundamental basis for families, often for three generations of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The insistence of the majority in this recipe shows its fidelity to the model of adjustment of Vítor Gaspar, shows that the post-troika did not change the belief of a austerity at all costs and with chosen targets. No one denies that we have seen significant degradation of pension systems since the big recession in 2008 / 2009. But we must be able to identify the causes and agents of this degradation. The economic recession and the wrong adjustment policies, inspired by the achievement of expansionist austerity, have led to a brutal destruction of employment without parallel in peacetime (600,000 jobs); a prolonged fall in wages; and a weakening of labour relations. And all of this took billions of euros away from the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was not the growth of social benefits that deteriorated the balance of the system, it was first the instability and the backwardness of its economic base of support: employment and wages. What is really at stake in the majority position is the use of pension systems at the service of a budget strategy that devalues the need for a faster recovery of the economy and employment. That is why the estimated jobs for 2019 are 120 000 jobs below the forecast that this government had made for 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The majority insists on the attempt to associate the Socialist Party with a strategy to reduce social benefits, which has already proven to be budgetaryly ineffective and economically disastrous. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not partners in this strategy. It is not socially acceptable, nor is it economically justifiable to renew the threat of further cutting the pensions allocated. We are not part of a policy that is already causing more instability, more uncertainty in families and more uncertainty in the economy. The time is to mobilise the country for economic recovery, which sustains more employment and more income. This is possible without compromising our active participation in economic and monetary union. It is for this policy that Portugal needs commitments: in terms of social dialogue and in terms of politics. This is how the PS presents itself before the Portuguese, in the forthcoming legislative elections, aware of the difficulties, particularly those of social protection, and knowing that there are no miraculous solutions, but also knowing that the solutions of this majority and this government have already shown that they do not serve the future of the country. For this reason, the country wants to change policies or change government. And there is no policy of fear that can prevent the country from changing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u5	You have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the Government, through my person or any other member of the Government, did not say that there must be cuts in pensions. [[PS laughter.]] We have a problem of social security sustainability, which is already recognized by the Socialist Party itself. It is already a step forward that the Socialist Party recognises that there is a problem of sustainability of social security, because, until a long time ago, neither was it recognized. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in fact, what we know today is that there are a number of solutions that cannot be implemented, because the Constitutional Court has already decided on proposals for a solution that the Government has submitted. But that's not why the problem went away. The problem still exists. And it is this recognition that is in the Stability Programme, i.e. that there is a problem of social security sustainability, that it is important to answer. And precisely because social security is something that legitimately concerns us all, this answer is not only important as an urgent one. What the PS makes, curiously recognizing that there is a problem of sustainability in social security, is to present a set of proposals that exacerbate it in any way that, whatever the source of the calculations, is always much more than EUR 11 billion, to which a proposal to decapitalize social security funds in more than EUR 1400 million to affect urban rehabilitation is added. [[PS protests.]] That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what it does is to aggravate the problem of social security and not to solve it. What the government wants to do is to face up to this problem and get the broad consensus that the problem deserves. It is that we are talking about a problem for today's generations and future generations, and this implies an attitude of responsibility, of broad consensus, which naturally involves the social partners, in order to find the solution to this problem. And it is not with a strategy to mean that the government has a closed design, which does not have — what has been said, repeated and repeated and is written with all the letters in the Stability Programme — that the problem is solved. We can only regret that the Socialist Party spends time accusing the government of things that are clearly not true, rather than responding to our appeals and sitting by our side to find the solution that solves the Portuguese problem in good time. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What the Socialist Party intends is to maintain this uncertainty until after the elections, a strategy to which we are already used and which is this: we promise some things and after the elections you will soon see. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u7	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u8	To request clarification from the Minister, the following members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy: Members João Oliveira, from the PCP, Mariana Aiveca, from the Left Block, and José Luís Ferreira, from The Greens. The Minister informed the Bureau that she would reply together to requests for clarification. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u9	Madam President, Madam Minister for Finance, I believe that, for many attempts by the Minister, there is no Portuguese who does not doubt what the Government really intends to do with pensions. Four years of pension cuts have not arrived, Mr.Minister, and we are still all reminded of what the proposed convergence of pensions, presented by this Government, meant to cut pensions with the intention of perpetuating cuts. And we are all also reminded of what the Government has written on page 39 of the Stability Programme, with regard to the cut of 600 million euros. And don't you say, Mrs. Minister, that the concern was with the recipes, because what you say here doesn't make that intention clear. Leaves, yes, open the possibility of cutting into pensions. Moreover, throughout the Stability Programme, this outlook for reducing the amount of pensions remains in place. Therefore, Madam Minister, with regard to the intentions of the Government, although you are now trying to undo the idea you have already created, it is clear what the intention of the Government is. I would also like to say the following: we understand very well that you are trying to find an ally in the Socialist Party for this purpose. The application of the sustainability factor to increase the age of the reform and the application of the condition of resources to cut social benefits was the development that this PSD and CDS government gave to the measures approved by the previous, rather than counter and reverse. So we realize that you want to make that alliance. But, Mrs. Finance Minister, I want to tell you something very clearly: with the PCP, you don't count, nor to cut pensions,... [[PSD protests.]] ... nor to condition the discussion on the sustainability of social security to the courts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u10	We understand that the Government wants to discuss the sustainability of social security under the threat of cuts in pensions and cuts in social benefits. We understand that the Government wants to do this. But we refuse to discuss these terms. We want to discuss social security according to objectives of social protection policy, goals of combating poverty, support for the unemployed, support for those in need of social protection in a situation of illness, of valuing the living conditions of pensioners. So, Minister, the very concrete question that I would like to ask you is: what measures to increase the revenue of social security have you considered before taking account of the courts? What measures, for example, to restore debt to social security, which you have allowed to increase by almost EUR 4 billion, have you considered before considering cuts?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u11	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u12	Did the Minister of Finance, by chance, give an account of what an economic policy to combat unemployment in increasing social security revenues meant? Has the Minister already realized that, if you applied economic employment-creating policies and if the unemployment rate was halved, the impact on social security was more than EUR 1500 million of an increase in revenue? To conclude, Mrs Minister, I would like to leave this challenge to you: the CFP Parliamentary Group today delivers to the Assembly a draft law with a view to expanding sources of social security financing based on the contribution of companies from net added value. This is a concrete contribution which the CFP makes to increase the revenue of social security, ensuring principles of solidarity, to ensure the public character, universal and solidarity of social security, ensuring the necessary revenues for a true social policy to combat the problems and development of the country. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance what answer she has to give to this proposal in particular. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u13	You now have the floor to ask for clarifications by the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u14	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, you have come to tell us that the government has not told us that there will be cuts in pensions. But the government has already said several months ago—and the Left Block has already questioned it quite often—where it will cut the 600 million euros. Mr.Minister, we no longer believe in the word of the Government, because in 2011 they said they were not going to cut in wages or pensions. Having arrived at the government, they have cut wages and pensions and now come to tell us 'we cut 600 million' — this is a given acquired since the State budget. They said they wouldn't cut the pensions and they didn't have a closed drawing. It is necessary once and for all, Mrs Minister, to tell Parliament and the country where it will cut the 600 million. Then the Minister tells us that there is a problem of social security sustainability and that, for this reason, this government has already taken several measures, the first of which was exactly cut into pensions — and it has no longer cut because the Constitutional Court has not left! The second was to increase the sustainability factor, i.e. the age of access to the pension, and it was necessary to work more to have the same pension. Mr Minister, the problem is real and requires serious discussion, but without solving the four main problems that directly affect the sustainability of social security — unemployment, precariousness, emigration and cuts in wages (these were the four fundamental factors of the austerity programme that contributed to the current state of social security) — social security is sinking. In parallel with resolving these problems, it is indeed necessary to find new forms of social security financing, from the outset to tax large fortunes and then to find ways to tax companies for their added value. These, yes, are proposals that we will have to discuss in the future, with all seriousness. Mrs. Minister, it is not worth continuing to say that you won't cut when you've already said it's a cut of 600 million. You are on this path of the "say-what-say"... In addition, this week we are watching the lamentable episodes of Mr.Minister saying something and being corrected next. I reaffirm the question I initially asked you: after all, where is the cut? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u15	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u16	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, we all know, the Government knows, the Minister also knows that the sustainability of social security does not depend on cuts in reforms, but rather on the need to diversify sources of social security financing, job creation, the value of wages and the fight against precariousness. But we already realize that the government is not available to take these measures. It is easier to cut back on reforms and, we agree, it is also more in line with the guidance of this government, which does not have a minimum social sensitivity or a hint of shame. Therefore, the sustainability of social security is only the argument, it is only the pretext, because the aim is to re-cut the already lean income of the reformed people, who have walked a life to discount on the assumption that the State would fulfill its word. And this time it is more than 600 million euros. The Government therefore intends to re-amend the rules in the middle of the game, to give the floor for the non-said and to miss the floor. Once again we find that for this government the commitments that the State has made towards the reformed are not to be fulfilled, they are not worth anything. The last commitments to respect are the commitments that the government has made with the troika and with the money lords. Those, yes, are to be respected. The Government that has been doing three years to make the Portuguese believe that when the financial assistance period ended it would rest the values of the cuts in the reforms is the same government that, after all, not only transforms the cuts, which were provisional, into finals. Therefore, it does not restore the values of the cuts, as it intends to cut further into the reforms. In fact, this government knows no limits. It has no respect for the people, it has no respect for the reformers and continues to ignore the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which, as the Minister well knows, has already considered the cuts in reforms as incompatible with our constitutional text. It's a shame, Mrs. Minister! It is a shame for the Portuguese, for the reformed and even for the rule of law, with whom this government — it has already realized — lives very badly. But there is one question: how can the Minister for Finance come to say otherwise on Monday what she said on Sunday, that is, that the Government does not have any proposals drawn up? Oh, my God! How can the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security come to say that the Government has no proposal in debate on this matter when we all know that the Government in the Budget Stability Document, which sent to Brussels, showed a saving of EUR 600 million in the pension system? It is further proof that the government continues to resort to lies. It won't be long before they envy Pinoquio...! But it is also proof of the most complete disappointment of this government that the Minister of Finance says something one day and the next day is disallowed by the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, who said exactly the opposite. Mrs Minister, you have already confirmed here that in the documents which were delivered by the Government to the European Union, the Government has provided for a saving of EUR 600 million in the pension system. It is important that the Minister has confirmed this because it enables us to understand the scope of her words when she says that the Government has no proposal on the cutting of pensions of EUR 600 million. So I ask you: does the Minister confirm that we have no design but that we are going to have cuts in the reforms? Is that it, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u17	In reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by referring to something that Mr. José Luís Ferreira has said and that I cannot fail to feel like a lack of respect for this government. He said that the sustainability of social security is a pretext for cutting reforms. Mr President, the problem of the sustainability of social security is clear: the government does not want to cut reforms or incomes. The Government took difficult measures when they were indispensable to ensure the present and future of all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] And it is a lack of respect for you to suggest something else! As for the specific questions which you are asking. Members have put, I begin by replying to Mr João Oliveira. Once again, what is in the Stability Programme is the commitment of a positive impact of EUR 600 million on the social security account, with the combination of revenue and expenditure, which may remain with new revenue, with ideal consensus with all parties, but with greater weight than the major party in the opposition. That is what is said and written and that has been systematically repeated. Therefore, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, there is no decision, there is no reform cut drawing. It is not worth continuing to shake 'Dad' to escape the discussion of what is truly important, that there is a consensus on social security reform for all. And the Socialist Party, which has proposals that only aggravate the problem, refuses to sit with us before the elections in which it would be a truly responsible attitude, to present the elections with a consensual proposal that could be discussed with the social partners and that, indeed, could truly bring information, tranquility and the ability of the Portuguese to vote fully informed. We reiterate what we have said and are available to sit, if any, today in search of this solution for the sustainability of social security. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u19	Mr Adam Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by saying something that seems very strange to me: the Left Block, the CFP and the Green Party have asked questions to the Minister after her intervention. The PS did not put—it seems to be fully clarified on this matter—, so we began to miss this position of silence of the Socialist Party. It is that today's debate must be marked above all by two principles, two values: truth and courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u21	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u22	On the question of the truth of the pension system we have in Portugal, we have a system of distribution that works well if there is a significant increase in the economy, job creation, low unemployment and demographic balance, situations that have not happened in Portugal a few years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u23	Yeah, no! It's austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u24	On the other hand, it works well if there are balances in the social security system. Well, in 2007 there was a deficit of EUR 135 million; in 2009 it was EUR 217 million; and in 2010 it was EUR 123 million. That is, before the crisis there was already a deficit in the social security system. Of course, when the government took possession of this deficit, it introduced EUR 4600 million to make the situation sustainable. But it is also necessary to tell people the truth: the leaders of the Socialist Party do not come to shake « papões», tell people and taxpayers the truth. The system, as it is, is unsustainable. The system would only break in 2015, according to the announcements that Mr. Vieira da Silva made a few years ago. Now, time is much shorter; it no longer takes up to 2050 more: the maintenance of a pension system that pays the current pensioners and does not distort the present taxpayers and future pensioners is a purpose that we all assume. The PS proposes to cut between 2016 and 2026 — imagine! — 14 billion in social security. But that is not the case: it says that in the Financial Stabilization Fund, which is already 14 000 million, also cut 10 %— plus 1400 million euros. Until 2016, the PS proposes to cut 15 400 million euros! How is it possible to sustain the social security system with such cuts in relation to the money that already exists there or that, perhaps, will be referred there? The Socialist Party is changing the right for uncertainty, changing the truth for fantasy. The PS postponed the problem, serious, running away from the responsibilities it has in this process, and somehow tries to spread the situation, " pushing with the belly" to see if this happens until September / October, without telling its truth. Now, this is not to speak the truth, because it hides the truth today and hides the truth from very recent times. It is worth reading here something that is German: the Socialist Party, in the second version of the electoral programme—it is already in the second version—says that the question of pensions was left out of the troika programme, which saw no need to take measures to strengthen the sustainability of social security. Mrs. Members, then, but what did the original document of May 17, 2011 say on page 2? It said: « A special contribution on pensions above € 1500 will be introduced in 2012 ». So you don't see this situation. But in addition to the truth that we need to tell and avoid the « papões», there must be courage, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u25	Courage only if it goes to go further down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u26	From that point on, it must be noted that the Constitutional Court says that there must be a structural reform of pensions. This reform must certainly be done by the PS, the PSD, the CDS, the social partners, all political and partisan leaders, something similar to a commitment logic, as was done in Spain in 1994 with the Toledo Pact. The PS cannot continue to make vague proposals, it seems that in some things it changes, but leaving everything in it. They are not acceptable bravery proclamations, saying that they do not want to cut into paid pensions. For example, they cut in all in 2010, including in minimum pensions. That's why I'm telling you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there needs to be courage and not political opportunism because the elections are coming. Yesterday, Mr Vieira da Silva said that the majority should not hide behind the Socialist Party. Mr President, for those who have led the country to bankruptcy, for whom we have, as we have had, the courage and the denode to re-enter the country, it is quite ungrateful to say that most of us are hiding behind the PS. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, I advise you not to insult the Portuguese intelligence. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is important that this debate takes place with some serenity, because the truth is that we are talking about more than 3 million people who will look here and try to understand what is happening behind political rhetoric and often the convenient and manipulative political rhetoric. And they are people for whom confidence, security and certainty regarding what will happen in the present and in the future are particularly important. It is therefore important to say once again that there is no strict proposal on the table to be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u30	More: from the point of view of social security and pensions, any change necessarily implies an extended consensus, particularly extended to the Socialist Party, social peace and social dialogue. This has to be very clear, because this is exactly what has been said in the Stability Programme and that is what has always been said here. We understand that when the elections are approaching, it is interesting on the part of the Socialist Party to stir up fear, insecurity and uncertainty. We understand that it is convenient, but it is not true, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. As much as you want to create a smoke curtain and launch insecurity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u31	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues ( PS ) : The Minister for Finance has launched insecurity!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u32	...it's not about the majority parties, it's about the more than 3 million pensioners who are seeing us at home and who are not aware of what's going on. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u33	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u34	We realize that it may be convenient, but it is not true, nor intellectually, nor politically honest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u36	Secondly, and since we are talking about the problem of social security sustainability, I wanted to say that this is a problem that affects those who are currently in the system, but also those who are working and whether or not they will have access to the system. And the PS seems to recognize, at some times—at least in good days, although it is not at all, of course—that there is a real problem. What makes me a little confused is that the Socialist Party will then not be able to remove a consequence from there. You are simply not able to say what you want from the system and to put forward alternative proposals. I'm not even talking about being able to put forward proposals, I'm talking about sitting with other parties or with the government and trying to find a minimally consensual solution. That's what the PS isn't able to do. And, moreover, when the PS presents proposals, they vary between two things: one thing is to say that, yes, sir, there is a problem of sustainability and, therefore, they will be lowered to TSU, which means, so to speak, that they will cut substantially into social security revenues. And the problem of sustainability? Well, they say: "We have no idea how it will be solved next year and 10 years from now people will receive lower pensions and the subject is over."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u37	Who saw the CDS and who saw it! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u38	Then there is the second part: when one asks how to solve the problem of own sustainability and of the pensions we have to pay in the coming year, they answer « it is very simple, the economy solves, economic growth solves. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, economic growth is undoubtedly an answer to many questions. But I ask: how many more times will Portugal have to go through what has happened until you realize that real economic growth is not what you are saying?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u40	It is not possible to take conjunctural measures, measures that last a year or two, and to imagine that this solves all problems. Don't solve it, create trouble! Question: How many more times will Portugal have to go through what has happened until you realize that your recipe simply does not work? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u41	Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let's, then, really talk. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u43	There is an indisputable truth: if another merit did not have this urgency debate marked by the Socialist Party, at least it had the merit of agreeing, apparently, the PSD and the CDS on the measure of pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that this agreement was not enough for them to sit side by side on the government bench,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...but you've already allowed them to say that there's no measure on the table. There's no measure on the table? Oh, my God! The Minister said that it is planned in the Stability Programme measures impacting on the pension system — she has already spoken on social security — a size of 600 million and the example she used to simulate was that of the proposal rejected by the Constitutional Court — a good example! — which had a cut of EUR 472 million from paid pensions. In view of this, does the Minister come to say that we are causing instability and the CDS says that we are threatening pensioners? Oh, my God! No, Mrs. Minister, who threatened pensioners was Mrs. Minister, and more than once! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it was expected that we would leave here with a little more suitable truth to reality. Most have a project, has a goal and has a goal that is clear in the Stability Program. On the sustainability of social security, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has a story...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u44	And what a story!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u45	...and has a past in defense of the sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: PS has a past of courage in defending the sustainability of social security! Interestingly, when it came to adopting measures to defend this sustainability, I saw no bench with the courage to support them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, it was just the ceiling, it was the freedom of choice, it was «the future is good for everyone», it was the courage to defend the sustainability factor and it was the courage to defend a reform of social security to think about the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one here had the courage to break an essential argument. The Minister made an appeal to sit next to her, but did not appeal to the Socialist Party to discuss with you when she decided to cut wages, pensions and holiday and Christmas allowances. The Minister did not even understand that these measures, which were taken at the expense of all the electoral commitments of the majority and the Government's commitments — which said, by the voice of the Prime Minister, that it was necessary no more than what was written in the Memorandum of Understanding — did the opposite, and you were unable to recognize that the only hypothesis that was useful for such measures not to be dramatic were the decisions of the Constitutional Court. These measures have led the economy to the worst recession in recent decades — 4 % in 2012! It's your responsibility, Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u46	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers. We therefore expect the parliamentary groups, if they understand it, to register their speakers, because they still have time. [[Pause.]] Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Madam Finance Minister, let's go a little further to the bottom of the question and to the accuracy of the words. You wrote in the Stability Programme « a combination of measures to reduce expenditure or increase revenue ». Madam Minister, on pension matters, reduction of expenditure means cuts in pensions. That's what you've been doing for four years! If you did not want to consider cuts in pensions, you would only write "increasing revenue" and did not consider reducing expenditure. [[PCP applause.]] You must assume your responsibility for what you have done during these four years and for what you want to do in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and, in particular, the Minister for Finance, you insist on creating an idea of unsustainable social security which is not connected with your economic policy, which is not directly involved in the creation of a huge mass of unemployed people and in your direct action in the destruction of the conditions on which the sustainability of social security depends. You must assume your responsibilities and act accordingly, because, without correcting the error of economic policy, without correcting the options of economic policy, without correcting the options of a low-wage economy, you will never solve the problem of social security sustainability. But you are not interested in ensuring the sustainability of social security. This is the pretext they use to continue to reduce the living conditions of people, to continue to reduce the social protection of the unemployed and thus to reduce wages in Portugal. You have no interest in ensuring the sustainability of social security, because that is part of the strategic options for impoverishment and exploitation that you have for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u51	Mr. Minister of Finance, this discussion is always made under the threat of cuts, the threat of reductions, the threat of increasing the age of reform. This argument is not new, it has already happened with other governments and even with previous governments of the Socialist Party, having had cuts in unemployment benefit, increasing the age of reform with the approval of the sustainability factor, cuts in family allowance and cuts in social benefits due to the condition of resources. And it continued to be so with your government, it continued to be with more cuts in pensions, with successive cuts in unemployment allowances and social unemployment allowance, with more cuts in family allowances, with cuts in social income of insertion, with the increase in retirement age also by applying the sustainability factor. Mr. Minister, some and others want everything to continue to be like before. Whether by means of the reduction of revenue, which is proposed by the Socialist Party with the reduction of the TSU (unique social rate), or by the choice of the coalition to insist on the application of the sustainability factor of cuts in pensions and social benefits, you want things to continue in the same way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u52	Would you like to conclude, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u53	I conclude, Madam President. Ms. Minister, the discussion of the sustainability of social security cannot only be done according to the objective of cuts, it must be done according to social policy objectives. You want to be accountable to the courts, we want to be accountable to the number of unemployed, the number of poor people to whom it is necessary to get rid of poverty, the value of pensions that must be increased in order to ensure those who have worked a whole life of dignity and appreciation for what they have done. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u54	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u55	Some of the proposals we have tabled, Mrs Minister, will now enter the Assembly of the Republic with the proposal for net added value. We would also like, until the end of the debate, to see what the Government's willingness to discuss the increase in social security revenues in order to ensure its sustainability. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u56	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect the times. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs. Minister, there is an elephant in the middle of the room, and it continues. The Minister told us that there must be a positive impact on the social security balance of 600 million. So, if there is no unemployment action plan here, no precarious action plan, no plan that solves the problem of emigration and immigration, no plan for the parallel economy, no alternative plan for sources of social security financing, means that there will not be cuts on the revenue side. The question we asked him is clear: Cuts where? And now I take up the speech of Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who, I believe, told us, and very well, that there are three million people with eyes placed in the last week of government information and counter-information on pensions — I repeat, three million pensioners. I think Mrs Cecilia Meireles has just failed one thing: in the gesture. He addressed the parliamentary group seats when the message was right to the government bench. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u58	I even subscribe to all this message of serenity to guard the trust of the three million pensioners! Therefore, the Minister is indeed still unable to respond to the three million pensioners, the country and Parliament. What malabarism will you do to have 600 million positive impact on social security without being cut into pensions? Oh, my God! And I reaffirm what I said initially: the story we have already lived shows that the government's word is worth little, because when I said that I was not going to cut pensions, it was when I cut pensions. Look, Mrs. Minister, it looks like that president of a certain club when he gives a press conference saying he has confidence in the coach: it means he's already made his resignation letter. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u60	When you come to say that you don't cut pensions, it's because you have a very clear plan to cut more pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u61	Mrs. Members, there are no more entries in the Bureau. I don't know if anyone wants to sign up... [[Pause.]] You have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u62	Madam President, I had the expectation that I could have answered the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, how they don't listen to what I say and insist on interpretation and on a process of intentions, I am sorry. I hope, however, that the Portuguese may have heard what the Government's position on this subject is again. There is a problem of sustainability in social security that is important and urgent to resolve. We want a consensus in Parliament, we want to discuss with the social partners a solution to this problem...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u63	Which one? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u64	...and we are open, at any time, to start this discussion. If the opposition parties, particularly the Socialist Party, do not want to do so, there is nothing we can force. A final note on the Stability Programme, which Mr. Ladies and gentlemen will have read, I hope. The Stability Programme presents a whole strategy complemented by the National Reform Programme for economic growth and job creation. However, like the honourable Members. Members well know, it is not enough to wish and not to declare, there are measures, reforms and foreseeable impacts, in a credible and prudent scenario, to continue on the path of growth and job creation. However, we have deep problems that require consensus on other matters and other solutions. Once again, I reiterate the availability of the Government, in the expectation that the Socialist Party can correspond favourably even before the elections, so that we can all proceed to this act with the appropriate clarification of what consensus is possible to find. That's because, sirs. Members, the reason why the Portuguese elect us and the responsibility they demand from us is that we do not put the interests of the election campaign in front of the interests of the Portuguese and sit down to define what is important, before we vote. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u65	You have to implement your proposal, because we have already done ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u66	Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor since he still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, there is a question which has been clarified in this debate. In fact, the proposal by the majority and the Government for the next few years on the pension system consists of one of two situations: either cuts in pensions, as they have already proposed and the Constitutional Court has not accepted, or, then, increases in tax or tax burden. That was the proposal that they have made and for more turns they will never succeed in removing this idea from all those who have heard the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, there is one point where no convergence is possible and it has to do with the cut-off of social benefits, namely pensions allocated, the retrospective cut-off by the conditions of the social contract, the contract that the State has made with each of the workers, but also because, as your history has shown, these cuts have had a profound adverse effect on the Portuguese economy and even on the sustainability of the public accounts and the social security system. We will be available for debate in any circumstances, but now, Minister, the debate is between the political forces and the parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u69	You can criticize our proposals, we criticize the government. We are waiting for the proposals of the parties of the majority, who are now going on a coalition, so that they can be discussed. When you have the courage to put on the role of your proposals for social security, for sustainability, for budgetary policy, we will be discussing them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and, Madam Minister, we will all be seated, in the only place where the Portuguese want to see us sit and debate, before the elections, so that the Portuguese can choose on the basis of the proposals that we present. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u70	That is the debate. That is where we set our commitments with Portuguese and Portuguese. You will establish yours and the Portuguese will choose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u71	Mr Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Vieira da Silva mentioned here that the PS has a past.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u73	And the CDS has too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, as we do, all Portuguese we know they have! ... It is a past that we all still pay very much today and be sure that we will not forget it, unfortunately! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u75	But it is not surprising that this debate was not in the middle — a debate in which there was a clear attempt to shake the ghost of a cut and create a curtain of smoke — and you had already noticed...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u76	The CDS is gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u77	Sir, the CDS, as you see, is here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u78	And where's the minister? Is it hidden? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u79	I'm sorry to tell you, but with all honesty, it's still a desperate attempt, after you haven't been able to pass the message from the ghost of the court, now come with politics, I'd say more, with the purest and toughest politicism, to cover up this failure. It's an attempt, but it's not happy, I'm telling you right now, and you're not going to paste. Finally, I conclude by saying the following: the Socialist Party may try to understand the monopolies of the heart and care with pensioners, but the Portuguese pensioners have memories...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u80	Yes, they do!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u81	Of course you do. And in this bench, we are very proud of our memories and those of pensioners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u82	What I ask myself is whether the banks that have frozen minimum, social and rural pensions of more than 1 million pensioners will also be proud of these memories,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] ... if the benches that led Portugal to a situation that forced the sacrifices of this nature will also be proud of these memories. I think that it is not and that, from this point of view, you were well aware that serious errors have been made, from the viewpoint of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u83	Mrs. Members, we conclude the current debate required by the Socialist Party in accordance with Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, and once again I would like to express the Bureau's congratulations to the Minister of State and Finance, the Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs and the Secretary of State for Solidarity and Social Security. We turn to point 3 of our agenda, with the general assessment of Bill No 331/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to revise the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, the Statute of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, the Code of Public Contracts, the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building, the Law of Procedural Participation and Popular Action, the Legal Regime of Administrative Protection, the Law of Access to Administrative Documents and the Law of Access to Information on the Environment. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice, to whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u84	Madam President, I would like to congratulate you and the other Members of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Administrative Procedural Law is an essential element for characterising the legal order as an integral part of an authentic rule of law. It is the analysis of this collection of standards and principles that enables, in particular, to reveal the quality of the relationship between the Administration and individuals and the intensification of the control of the disputes against them. However, only a State that allows and ensures that the legality of its decisions can be scrutinized by independent courts in a fair and equitable process, in which citizens assume themselves as authentic subjects of the process, with equal rights and duties, is that it can be qualified as a true rule of law. the present application for legislative authorisation. The modernisation of our system of administrative dispute, which for too long has been almost exclusively limited to the dispute remedy of annulment, as we know, has seen an impulse with the entry into force of the diplomas which gave rise to the reform of 2002 - 2004, going to meet the constitutional requirements in that field. Despite the decisive role of this reform, case law and doctrine have been developing and stressing the need to review some of the solutions enshrined therein. Having returned more than 10 years since the entry into force of the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals ( CPTA ) and the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals ( ETAF ), the Ministry of Justice considered that the time had come to carry out a substantial review and to respond to the problems that the evolution of the times has been putting forward. Starting with the CPTA, the draft review of this diploma was molded around four fundamental vectors. The first feature relates to the search for greater effectiveness and rationality in the processing and resolution of processes subject to administrative jurisdiction. in this context, new legal regimes were created, oriented with greater simplification, and introduced flexibility mechanisms, in line with what we have done in all procedural areas. In this respect, it is important to highlight the fact that a single process is being dealt with, that is, the duality of actions ends and, with regard to non-emergency declarative procedures, there is only one procedure, administrative action. The observance of a common procedural structure, within which all requests previously distributed between both non-existent procedural means fall into line, allows for an easier grasp of the rules, by eliminating differences, thus ending difficulties which in the past have been felt in the interpretation of the rules. On the other hand, in terms of the powers recognised to the administrative judge, a new provision was introduced which accords the judge with broad powers of procedural management, like what was done in the Civil Procedure Code (CPC), allowing him to refuse what is impertinent or merely dilatory and adopt mechanisms for simplification and agility. Considering the fundamental purpose of achieving material justice on the merits of the cases, the judge is empowered to provide informally for the supply of the lack of procedural assumptions or acts necessary for the regularization of the proceeding. This role in the removal of formal obstacles and in seeking the definitive composition of the dispute is also manifested in the possibility of the judge allowing the replacement of requests for invocation for protection of rights, freedoms and guarantees by other precautionary means. In this regard, it is important to highlight the creation of a new form of urgent procedure, specifically aimed at providing a prompt and integrated response to disputes concerning mass procedures, as is the case with staff competitions, and with recruitment procedures, which often congest the functioning of the courts. under this scheme, the various claims may be concentrated and assessed in a single case before a single court, thus ensuring speed and consistency of decisions. The second vector stems from the need to harmonize the discipline of this diploma with the recent reform of the Civil Procedure Code and the new Code of Administrative Procedure ( CPA ). In view of the principle of uniting, it would not be understood that the administrative procedural system was not in line with the other procedural systems. thus, the solutions accepted in the new Code of Civil Procedure are designed in this Code. I would also like to refer to it, Mr. Members, that the influence of the CPC is also notable at the level of resources. In turn, the need to harmonise the CPTA with the regimes and with the revision introduced into the Code of Administrative Procedure has led to the amendment of rules relating to the annulment and amendment of the contested act and its contested procedure. The third vector is aimed at reviewing the precautionary regime, improving the solutions currently enshrined. Therefore, the list of types of precautionary measures has been extended. In addition, the possibility of replacing or extending the application, pending the precautionary procedure, was expressly enshrined as a result of the unnecessary amendment of the de facto or legal assumptions. It is also important to highlight the amendment concerning the adoption of a single precautionary measure decision criterion, which has caused so many entropies. Finally, the fourth vector is confronted with an effort to clarify certain matters, whose practical application raised doubts in the doctrine and case law. As regards the prospect that the proposed amendments should be inserted, in the field of legitimacy, it is possible to heal the legality in a more guaranteeing way for individuals. with regard to ETAF, the scope of acts which are subject to administrative jurisdiction is broadened. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The revision of these diplomas is a very important step. I do, however, ask the honourable Members. Members, since this is a period of time, the elimination in the text of the legislative authorisation of Article 3 ( h ). the law of legislative authorization, thus maintaining the current wording of Article 24. the ETAF, excluding allusion to the Supreme Military Court, because it has already been extinguished. I would like to thank the Commission publicly for reviewing these diplomas, chaired by Prof. Doctor Fausto de Quadros, with all the other elements, the work done and the contributions received. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u85	The Bureau recorded the registration of the Members. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS, Cecília Honorio, of the Left Block, and Mr Antonio Filipe of the PCP, to put questions to the Minister, who, according to me, will answer together. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u86	Mr President, Minister of Justice, when we discuss this issue of administrative dispute, we have a feeling of already vu, in terms of bad legislative practices in this House. It is, indeed, that today we have evidence of a re-editation of the procedure, hurried, non-participated, which also presided over the revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u87	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u88	And if it is true that there is an agreement, I think that it is generalized, among all the banks in relation to many of the axes which Mr. Minister mentioned — in fact, the administrative dispute is essential for the exercise of fundamental rights of the administrations, as well as an update for compatibility with the Code of Administrative Procedure, with the Code of Civil Procedure, with the Code of Public Contracts (CCP) itself, which is also after the legislation of the administrative dispute, and it is also useful and relevant to carry out an update of the law on the basis of the judicial guidelines and doctrinal works, which is the fact that it is perplexing to us, again, with a law of legislative authorization, to deliver in this Parliament a rare week of debate in general, and it is also useful and relevant to carry out an update of the law on the basis of the legislative guidelines and doctrinal proceedings, which, once again, should allow for hearings within the committee to be heard, as it was done, precisely in 2002 and in 2004, to bring the proposal to the Council of the regular committee, the Council, the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council. Well, I know, Mrs. Minister, that has delivered an extensive set of opinions, but they do not reflect the final version, which is the one presented today in annex to the bill. In fact, some of the criticisms have been the subject of attention and, therefore, there has been a change in the diploma, but it is indeed a challenge that we have left to Mr.Minister, in that he abdicates this methodology, which is not participative, of the elaboration of a structural document, even more, of six structural documents for the legal order. And we are talking about the amendment of the CPTA, the amendment of the ETAF, a change of the law of popular action, an amendment to the Code of Public Contracts, an amendment to the law of administrative protection, an amendment to the Act of Access to Administrative Documents, therefore the pillars of the legal and administrative ordering, beyond the Code of Administrative Procedure. And we have to discuss them in a timely manner, without due weighting and without this House being able to appreciate them in the detail it had in 2002 and 2004. Even in the mid-term review of the CPTA and the ETAF, which preceded its entry into force in 2003 even there, the process was much more involved, much more comprehensive and much more solid than that presented to us today. On the other hand, we still have an additional perplexity, also typical of some revisions and some administrative reforms, which is the disconnection at the level of the entry into force of all these diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u89	He didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u90	The 60-day period for the introduction of very significant changes, which concern a reconfiguration of the procedural means, the merger in a single procedural environment of those who were so far existing and in a context in which we still face the growing pains of implementation of the remaining reforms in the sector, does not really seem sufficient. We therefore leave the challenge, and this is my first question, without prejudice to other substantive issues to which we will return in the context of the debate: is there or is not possible for this House, this House, to be able, in effect, to have a serious, structured debate, with the weighting that this matter deserves, in particular by evaluating a proposal for a law, so as to be able to assess in conditions a reform of the administrative dispute without hindrance and without any difficulty? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u91	Of course, the time spent by Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves is charged in the global time that the Socialist Party has for this debate, but for a balanced distribution it will be good for us to get closer to normal regiment times. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u92	Mr President, the Minister of Justice, has made numerous explanations here, but, from our point of view, one missing, which is the first, that is, why the Minister of Justice has chosen not to bring here a bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u93	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u94	from our point of view, when the electorate and the electorate are called to vote on a legislative authorization, which is what we will do, on certain matters which are absolute reserve of the Assembly of the Republic, and we are talking about the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Courts and of rules relating to the status of judges of the same courts, if this is not a caricature of Parliament, Minister of Justice, I do not know what it is. Therefore, Minister, give us this explanation. in this sense, I want to invoke the one who should be a mandatory opinion of the Supreme Council itself of Administrative and Tax Tribunals, and that we do not know why we did not auditions, we have no opinions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u95	They are published on the website!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u96	...we did not have the opportunity of this consultation process open to all entities — and this opinion is, at least, mandatory — but, with regard to the initial draft, that Council said that it was at risk of a legislative'motorisation' when passing from the law to a decree, and the same risk happens with regard to the'motorisation' of the judiciary itself. So, Minister of Justice, I want you to give us a clear explanation of this matter, which is of great sensitivity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u97	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u98	Mr President, Minister of Justice, the question we have to put now, without prejudice to what we will do later, in the intervention we will address questions of the content of this bill, is that, when a bill is presented for a reform of this size to one month of the constitutional end of the legislative session, it is obviously impossible to conduct a minimally appropriate parliamentary debate. It is not possible that in such matters there can be a discussion with the depth that is required and with the hearings that would be necessary by the Assembly of the Republic at the end of the legislature. It is clearly not possible! In fact, we remember the debate here in 2002 when the Assembly of the Republic had the opportunity to hear Professor Mário Aroso de Almeida — who was one of the material authors of the bill presented at the time — in which we heard many specialists and therefore had the opportunity to hold an appropriate debate on this matter, which clearly is not possible in this period. Therefore, in relation to this question of whether it would have been appropriate to present a proposal for a material law or a proposal for legislative authorization, the Government could even reply very simply: "How did you want a proposal for a material law to discuss this matter at the end of the legislature? Oh, my God! The legislative authorization is therefore here.' And, if, for most of these matters, it is certainly constitutional to do so by legislative authorization, it may no longer be true as regards matters relating to the status of judges who have been considered as matter of absolute reservation, as it is also highlighted in the opinion presented by the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges. But we must not forget that of the eight diplomas, the amendment of which is proposed, six of them are currently regulated by the law of the Assembly of the Republic, and the law on popular action was born of a parliamentary initiative in the V legislature. Therefore, it seems inappropriate to us that this review is made solely by means of legislative authorization and we also find it very doubtful that some matters which are regulated here are not of absolute reservation to the Assembly of the Republic. What is more significant to us is that it is not a month from the end of the legislature that the Government is proposing to the Assembly of the Republic a reform of this size and with this importance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u99	You have the floor to speak to the Minister of Justice for reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u100	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I am going to work until the last day as I worked in the first, within constitutional limits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u101	But he won't let us work for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u102	Sir, if you want, work! I will continue and, if I can work on the first day as well as on the last day, you can also...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u103	The Minister should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u104	...and all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members, beating hands on the benches.]] You are a democrat, please. As for the bad practices and the reservation, Mr. Members have sworn to comply with the Constitution, which, by the way, they do not know. It is only to read Article 165. point ( p) of paragraph 1, to see that this matter is not subject to exclusive reservation. I shall read: « It is the sole competence of the Legislative Assembly in the following matters, with the exception of authorization to the Government : (...) p) Organization and competence of the courts, the Public Ministry and the status of their judges, as well as non-jurisdictional entities of conflict composition; (...) » So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is very clear on this matter and you have sworn to do so. As for the opportunity or not, it is of course Parliament's responsibility to grant or not the authorisations requested. On the issues raised by Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I will say that the opinions are all published on the Assembly website. I would like to assure Mr António Filipe that Professor Mário Aroso has joined this Commission as well as the major experts. So, and I repeat, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will work on the last day as I worked on the first day, within constitutional limits. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u105	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u106	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u107	Madam President, I call on the Bureau to make an inquiry on the progress of the work of this legislative process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u108	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u109	Madam President, the Minister suggested that we did not want to work until the last day of the legislature, saying that she would and we should do the same. There is no doubt, Mrs Minister, that we will work until the last day of our duties, but we wanted to work properly. But to work properly, it was good that the government had done its work and presented the bill in due course, and that was not done by the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u110	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: following Mrs Minister's intervention on the question of constitutionality, I think it is remarkable that she reminds us, Parliament, that we have sworn to comply with the Constitution, that we have to know it. In fact, this statement comes from a member of the Government who, perhaps, is a recordist in declarations of unconstitutionality of the Constitutional Court and whose knowledge of the Constitution is certainly not at the level of a student of 1. the year of Constitutional Law, it is always surprising. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But now seeking to point out what is indicated in the opinion of the Trade Union Association of Portuguese Judges, which is the status of judges, not the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, in effect, the EFTA shall include matters which fall within Article 165 ( 1 ). the Constitution and, consequently, may be the subject of legislative authorization. However, the ETAF also includes matters relating to the individual status of judges who, when we last visited the Constitution, were still holders of sovereign bodies and consequently fall within the scope of Article 164 ( e ). the, subject to absolute reservation, consequently unsusceptible from delegation of competence. There were also some comments to make... Besides, apparently there is a silence I do not say surprising, but at least there is a lack of willingness to work on the part of the majority who so far did not want to intervene in the debate and whose opinions on the matter we await with expectation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u112	Until the last minute!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u113	...to the last second of the debate, of course. We look forward to hearing what most of us have to say. But it is also important, since we have no other opportunity, to emphasise that some of the objectives which are intended to be achieved with this reform, in particular with regard to strengthening the guarantees of individuals, are far from being achieved. We refer to precautionary provisions, legitimacy and also matters relating to a lost opportunity that this reform could also represent and does not represent, I do not know whether for lack of time, if for lack of will. Why are we not structurally reviewing the law of popular action so that it is not only amended to answer some of the problems that the CPTA poses? Indeed, there are many issues which remain open and which are not resolved in this legislative amendment. But as I said, I am curious to hear what the majority has to say to us and therefore I also look forward to the debate going on in this direction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u114	Mr Hugo Velosa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u115	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since Mr Pedro Delgado Alves accused someone (who does not know! ) if you don't want to work, I was hoping you'd tell us something about the content of these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u116	And he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u117	I just said now, in the end, about the law of popular action. All right, if the Socialist Party thinks that the law of popular action should be changed, in addition to procedural amendments, because here we are dealing only with procedural, adjective and non-substantial changes, Mr could have said something to this House so that we can discuss the content of the proposals. In my speech, I will try to say something about the content of the proposals. So, to the ladies. Members who have raised this procedural question would like to say the following: VV. Ex.as have no doubt that there is, of course, here, and I can say, something different from what happened with CPA. With the CPA, the Members took the debate and, on the day of the vote, they took the three votes. I wanted to say VV now. For example, you will have the opportunity to discuss these matters in your specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u118	That's positive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u119	And we think it would be very good if, in the specialty, we didn't just say this: "No, the government doesn't want to work. Members of the majority do not register. Ladies and gentlemen do not want to work on this! They have no problems, because we are going to do so and we are going to discuss these matters in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u121	So the best thing is to move on to the substantive issue. And the substantive question, let me tell you, it has a lot to do with something... I mean more to the Socialist Party than while it was government and it had the justice record used to fail to comply with what was in its Programme. This government, even under attack in this way, has an advantage : it is fulfilling everything in its Programme, particularly in this area, which is of the few that are missing from those in the Government Programme. So I think everyone out there understands. We, ladies and gentlemen, obviously have to have the opportunity to discuss these matters and we will have it. But because of the first interventions that have been made today, it seems to me that you are. Members have not read all the opinions that are already on the website of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u122	We read, we read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u123	Are they about the project? Oh, my God! It's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u124	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u125	Don't we have opinions on this bill? We do not have, but we will get them to know what entities that must be heard will do. We will await these opinions and, of course, take note of what they tell us, in particular what the Higher Council of Administrative and Tax Courts tells us, whose judges devote themselves specifically to these matters, from the point of view of judicial action. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are losing, for procedural reasons, the opportunity to discuss the positive aspects here. In fact — and I would like to draw your attention to this — Mr President. Members, read the opinions and will see the role of positive aspects that these opinions of the main entities related to this matter, and which are the entities that have to pronounce themselves on this subject, point out. Go there and read what is there: in general, reform is timely; it is positive; they do not find completely unacceptable aspects; they give suggestions, etc. etc. So, essentially, the reform we are doing here is well done. We must congratulate the committee who worked on this matter because in these amendments to the Code of Procedure in the Administrative and Tax Tribunals and the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, he did an excellent job. For example, the question you raise here — this is procedural, but I will have to say — that this could be an absolute reservation, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these issues are only understood from the point of view of corporate defence, so let us say, because this is obviously a matter of relative reservation. We are not here on the subject—and the Minister has already read up to the constitutional standard that applies—of absolute reservation, because if we were, of course, that would be unacceptable. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to say very clearly that the reform is in the right direction. I believe, in particular, that the Association of Trade Unions of Judicial Judges sent after the introduction of the bill and what is said is that reform is timely and positive, that several problems are solved in the functioning of the administrative and fiscal process, such as the end of the dualist regime, creating only one action, which creates a regime for urgent actions and for the processes in which there are many authors, so in mass, these processes also have a solution here. And, moreover, it also says that it is a reform that positively moves in the precautionary provisions, which is more involved in the non-judicial system of solving problems, arbitration, but there obviously there are those who agree and there are those who do not agree. For example, this citizen who is here, who I am, absolutely agrees that he is affixed in arbitration, because it is a way of resolving correctly and according to the parties the solution of problems that are submitted to the court. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the PSD point of view, we have no problem with wanting to work or not work. We're working and we're going to work! We will discuss this as a proposal for legislative authorization, but, after the work that is done here, they do not ask anyone to do months and months of hearings to resolve standards, I repeat, of procedural character, that are not of a substantial nature, and of course we will be available for this discussion, because that is how we understand that everything must be done. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that what is at stake here is the problem of knowing who is doing and who is not fulfilling what is being done in his government programme. Let me tell you this: perhaps many Members have already become accustomed to not meeting what is in the government programme. The Minister of Justice in this case is fulfilling one of the last matters she has promised in her programme. And that, apparently, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are not used to seeing and exalting, because that is what should be done right now. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u126	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is good to see that Mr Hugo Velosa has spoken on substantive issues of the diploma, it is of course positive, but he does not understand correctly what is being conveyed by the opposition in this debate. The question of how we discuss the reform of the administrative dispute is not irrelevant, because it means two things: whether the way the government views the reform; whether the way the government views Parliament and the ability of the Members to make their work impact on the rules that will enter into force and which will be decisive in guaranteeing the rights of the administrators. And what we have, in many cases, is a generic formulation of a law of legislative authorization, in which we, ladies and gentlemen, are able to respond to the call and to change sustainably, extended, with a public debate, mobilising Parliament, as happened in 2002, as it is not happening now and also how it did not occur with regard to the revision of the Code of Administrative Procedure. I would also like to leave some references on the reservations we have with regard to several amendments proposed in the Code of Administrative Procedure, particularly in the context of precautionary measures. Despite the announcement that it is strengthening the ability to offer guarantees to individuals, there are aspects that are particularly worrying about, in particular, the causes of the decreeing of precautionary measures. First of all, because one of the major achievements of the 2002 - 2004 administrative dispute is eliminated, resulting from Article 120 ( 1 ) ( a ). that of the Code, which was the possibility of decreeing the providence when it was manifested the illegality of the act practiced. Obviously, to be deleted this reference is a significant breach in the protection of objective legality and in the protection of subjective rights of administrators. At the same time, it also does more than that: by unifying the criteria for decreeing the provisions, whether they are conservative or in advance, it is chosen by the last criterion that should be selected for the decree of the provisions, which is the manifestation of a high degree of probability of the maturity of the main cause, which is precisely inversion until the regime of the decree of the provisions before the reform of 2002. Therefore, not only are we going back, for a moment prior to that which had represented a more-valid for individuals, as we have retreated for decades in the protection in the precautionary headquarters which, obviously, is fundamental to ensuring the usefulness of the deal and to ensure the final outcome for individuals. In the seat of legitimacy, as I said recently, a number of issues in the articulation between the form of popular legitimation and various mechanisms that continue in the Code without the proper connection are to be resolved. In particular, at the level of the challenge of standards, in which we again maintain two regimes: one, for the declaration with force of force general, and the other, for the declaration with effect limited to the case, but in which, despite this fact, we refer to the law of popular action, which determines, as an automatic effect, that we are before a popular action, the generic effects of decisions. Once again, I think, a missed opportunity, at least until this moment, because there could of course be an opportunity in the ensuing debate to review the matter. On the other hand, also in the field of legitimacy, we have detected a restriction on the procedural legitimacy of the bodies of the local authorities as regards the possibility of challenging decisions of the other bodies of their bodies. Today, it is possible for a municipal assembly or a municipal chamber, any one of them, to have legitimacy for the challenge of any act practiced by the other authorical body. What is presented to us today only when the exercise of its own powers is at stake is that any of the bodies may challenge the decisions of the others. There is an objective, clear restriction, of what is to date a fully open legitimacy and which also reduces the ability of the administrative courts to vote on the legality of the administrative decisions at the local level. It also seems to us that, under the penalty of harming what has traditionally been — in fact, this is a measure that is not, at least, of the recent revision - a measure that has been accompanying us since the 19th century, is the oldest administrative dispute we can present. These are some examples of problems that reform entails. It will not, of course, be a master of the system, it is not here that the system will collapse, but a reform with this dimension and this importance, as it has been said and I can repeat, it is not done in the final line of the legislature, it is not done without the proper participation in the Assembly, and it is certainly not sent by sending opinions that do not even correspond to what is actually being debated and on which there is not even the guarantee that they will be those who will be approved in the Council of Ministers, once the Government has been empowered by the competent legislative authority. Therefore, we reiterate the appeal: if the reform is carried out in conditions, the proposal for legislative authorization is transformed into a bill and we discuss it with time and with the dignity that this reform deserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u128	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u129	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Reflecting on the system and practice resulting from the previous reform, which undoubtedly constituted, indeed, a historical framework for modernising administrative justice, we cannot fail to register and follow the need underlying the presentation of the legislative initiative under discussion. In short, improve, clarify, harmonise and further ensure greater transparency and publicity to all justice, including that resulting from the arbitral courts in administrative matters; in short, value administrative justice in Portugal. For those who follow these matters, it is easy to conclude that the legislative options now presented are, in fact, the result of a specialized work and constructed on the basis of points that were previously identified by the doctrine and also by jurisprudence. That, of course, does not mean, nor could it mean, nor would it be, I would say, a unanimity in the solutions, Mr Delgado Alves, in fact, as it is proper for any healthy construction process. What we have just said is, for example, evident in the question of the option around the single form of action, a solution now enshrined by the legislator versus the regime of the two administrative actions currently in force. But, regardless of whether we understand any mistrust that may persist in relation to the consecration of a single form of process, in our view, it is more the virtualities that we recognize that can come from a unified process, without rigidity in processing, than in the maintenance of a dual model. Despite the distinct nature of the legal-administrative relationship that disputes emerge, a single matrix makes it easier to know the rules by smashing and eliminating differences. Therefore, a security factor and a certainty factor is introduced, even more so if we take into account the reaffirmation, in the administrative process, of the principle of procedural adequacy. We are also faced with a healthy approach to the recent reform of the Code of Civil Procedure, without, however, how it could not fail to be, to ignore the meaning and the differentiated scope that some principles and instruments have in the civil process versus the administrative process. As many have already said, the reasoning we follow, the dynamic flexibility that will enable the judge to determine, having heard the parties and in full respect for an equality of arms, which the procedures that lead to a final informed, prompt and fair decision is, of course, to praise. Flexibility which, of course, should always be within the legal limits of the principle of the fair trial and within the material limits of the common sense of the judge. In other words, and as he was very present in the discussion during the Code of Civil Procedure, it will also be the legal practice to determine the good and misuse of these instruments. Other amendments which have already been mentioned here, such as those drawn up for the pre-contractual dispute, were also commended, seeking to comply with the Resources Directive and those introduced in the field of precautionary protection, here diverging directly from the opinion of Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Another note on the option made by the legislator by the model of singular judge in the processes that pass through 1. the instance. However from the recognition of the theoretical advantages of collegiality, we hardly follow the criticisms that are being added to the consecrated solution, which, moreover, rehabilitate a discussion already held in this House, when the Civil Procedure Code was adopted. In the administrative dispute, however, it is even more clear that slowness causes late justice to cease being just. A serious and serene analysis of the results of the implementation of the CPTA reveals to us — differences in the issues of statistics — a number of expectations with which operators cannot comply in any way. We therefore understand that here too we justify the adoption of a solution capable of contributing to avoid, as many have already said, that justice is shorted by the excessive time in which it takes place. Finally, a brief reference to the amendments to the Statute of the Administrative and Tax Tribunals, stressing the extension of the administrative jurisdiction to other disputes which by their nature have true legal and administrative relations as their object. It is important to highlight the prudent attitude of the Government in the context of the illegal social order, covering only those relating to urbanism at this stage, while others are awaiting the development of the implementation of the reform of the administrative courts. In short, despite the doubts that these matters, even because of their complexity, can raise, I am sure, given the amendments introduced, that we are faced with another important step in the context of justice reform, a revision that goes, in fact, to ensure what we so much want: speed and effectiveness in the resolution of legal and administrative disputes. It is undoubtedly a fundamental review to restore the confidence and credibility of citizens in the state and in the administration of justice, which is, in fact, mortgaged, Mrs Minister, for a past of deferred reforms and also for the lack of political courage in decision-making. Well, the government's doing well, and it's gonna be better for the state. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u130	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u131	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: There is something that we believe should be carefully discussed about these amendments to the law of proceedings in the administrative courts and that has to do with the use of arbitration. Even this month of April, we were confronted with the news that the state will have to pay EUR 150 million to Brisa because this was decided in an arbitral tribunal. In other words, Brisa complained about the introduction of tolls in the Silver Coast award and the State will have to pay her compensation of EUR 150 million and this was accepted by an arbitral tribunal. All of us have in mind the bitter experience of the Atlantic ship, in which, by resorting to an arbitral tribunal, the State has given up fighting. In other words, the Government of the Azores did not want the ship and the arbitral tribunal decided that the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo not only had to stay with the ship to rot as they still had to compensate the Regional Government of the Azores for 40 million euros. What happened was that, extinct the Viana Shipyards, the ship was sold at a scrap price to a private who, in turn, managed to sell it for more than three times the price for which it bought it. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] We all still have the bitter experience of what was the recourse to arbitral courts in the case of Amadora-Sintra hospital. Well, this to say what? To say that we strongly dispute that, in the area of administrative law and, more importantly, if we think that, in this bill, the validity of administrative acts is expected to be submitted to arbitral courts, we are here completely overturning the principle of administrative legality...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u133	... in a way that, from our point of view, raises the greatest reservations as to its constitutionality. Because the State has to defend the public interest, the State cannot act as if it were a particular, irrespective of its rights and without an assessment of the legality of the acts of the State itself and the legality of the legal relations between the State and individuals. The use of arbitration is a resource of the rich. Tax arbitration is a more than elucidative example. If a poor citizen ceases to pay the IMI, they carry him leather and hair; if he is a great debtor to the state, he resorts to arbitration and debt is half by means and we witness a scandalous tax forgiveness. I must say that we agree that the opinion which was sent to us by the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges, which raises the greatest doubts about this possibility which is expected to extend the use of arbitration, all the more so that, under certain provisions of this bill, the State is expected to have to accept the possibility of recourse to administrative courts. However, if this is acceptable, although very questionable, in our private relations, it is absolutely unacceptable for the State to accept an arbitral commitment not to use the administrative courts to resolve its disputes. This is something on which we believe that, in the name of transparency in the functioning of the State and even in the name of it — and I will say the words — of combating corruption, we should have the greatest care. from our point of view, the State should, in no case, resort to arbitration, because what is at stake is the State's suitability and respect for the principle of legality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u134	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister of Justice: I have yet had the hope that the Minister of Justice, on the procedure, would say: "Well, I haven't had time to apologize there! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But after all, the Minister preferred to consider that the problem is for Members and Members who do not want to work. in this context, I would even like to ask you, on an urgent matter relating to the statutes of the judiciary, whether the Minister is also considering doing so by decree. But I would like to leave some questions on the content of what we are discussing here, in particular with regard to the Code of Procedure of the Administrative Courts. The first question, which is the most important, is whether what we analyze responds to the need for greater efficiency of administrative and fiscal justice. I am going to turn to the only opinion, of the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges, which is made from the final proposal we have examined today. And I quote: "There are no decisive solutions to speed up and make administrative justice more efficient, recognizing that there are some positive aspects". in the recognition, also, Mrs Minister, by means of the opinions on the preliminary draft, that there are matters on which there is no absolute consensus, matters relating to the precautionary provisions, the arrangements of precautionary provisions presented here, or even with the end of the dualist regime of administrative action, in which, as you know, there is no unequivocal consensus. The second question has to do with human resources. I ask you whether these are enough to respond to the changes outlined here. If there are sufficient judges, it seems to us that the Minister of Justice does not have the information we have. I ask you, for example, about the enlargement of the powers envisaged, in which these courts can judge counter-ordinations in the area of urbanism, if an assessment has been made of the impact that this may have on these same courts and of the necessary resources. The third question, Mrs Minister, refers to questions of constitutionality regarding the allocation of authorization to review the competences of the arbitral tribunals that begin to assess the validity of administrative acts. It seems to us that this is all very worrying. If we look carefully at Articles 180. o 187. the, which are related to arbitration and arbitration centres, we see that in their hands there will be subjects as sensitive as public employment, public social protection systems or even urbanism. There is here a path of privatization of justice and deresponsibility of the State itself, which deserves our greatest concern. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u136	The Minister for Justice has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is facing constitutional reform within the framework of effective judicial protection. With regard to arbitral courts, they are expected, as VV. Ex.as know, in the Constitution and are considered as true courts. Mr António Filipe, I would suggest that you look at the price tables of tax arbitration, to see that any citizen can appeal to it. It is not exactly a system equal to ad hoc or institutionalised arbitration in arbitration centres. Mrs Cecília Honorio, regarding human resources, would say that if you had a collective, you would have a singular judge, you have an obvious release from human resources. This is obvious to me, we don't need to make big bills. Finally, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, as you well know, it was very difficult for anyone to obtain the decree of a measure on the basis of Article 120 ( a ). o. And it was precisely in the context of strengthening the guarantees of individuals who deleted that point and opted for the solution enshrined herein. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u138	There are no more entries in the Bureau, and I therefore end the debate on the proposal for a law No 331/ XII ( 4 ). ( a). in our agenda, we follow the general discussion of Bill No. 325 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Procedure 37. the amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, fully transposed Directives 2008 / 99 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on protection of the environment by criminal law, and 2009 / 123 / EC, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 amending Directive 2005 / 35 / EC on pollution by ships and the introduction of sanctions in the event of infringements. To submit this bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is made up of 37. the amendment to the Penal Code, as is known. On the other hand, through this proposal for a law, it is intended to improve the wording of the rules introduced in the Criminal Code by Law No 56 / 2011 of 15 November on the criminal law of the environment, in order to comply fully with the provisions of Community acts which determined that introduction into the Criminal Code. Therefore, the legal prediction of crimes of damage against nature and pollution is adjusted, highlighting, in particular, the empowerment of the crimes of discharges of pollutants by ship, of which there is, in isolation or repeatedly, deterioration of water quality. It is also important to highlight the worsening of the criminal frameworks applicable to these crimes by eliminating the crime of pollution of fines which were commensurate, as an alternative to prison sentences, thereby reinforcing the protection of the environment in the criminal context, consistent with the structural relevance of this matter for all of us. Environmental protection is an objective, which is why, in the proposed law that defines the objectives and priorities of criminal policy, we also include forest fire crimes and environmental crimes in the list of priority prevention crimes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has come to present to the Assembly of the Republic proposals for legislation in the areas of criminal law, criminal procedural law and international judicial cooperation whose aim is clear, to strengthen the protection of citizens' rights and to promote the safety and well-being of the people. This bill, which amends the Penal Code, aims to achieve this desire in the protection of the environment, a condition indispensable to the preservation of the quality of life by the multiple incidences on personal and heritage rights that are required to be ensured. It is an imperative which, I believe, will unite all this Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u140	We don't have entries on the table. Does no Member sign up to speak on this point of our agenda? [[Pause.]] Mr Luís Fazenda has just signed up for an intervention. Thank you very much for signing up, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I hoped to hear other opinions before I express my humble opinion, but it is to express generic agreement with this bill, which is a translation of Community guidelines and directives that were needed. The entire history of environmental crimes is intertwined with the tragedy of the Prestige and with all the consequences and all the debates that in the law the courts had about it. I must draw attention to the following: the design of the ship's polluting discharge crime is a strong, very strong weapon. We hope that the authorities will have the ability to monitor the design of the crime, because, unfortunately, in Portugal it is a very frequent circumstance and, as it is established in this bill, it is sufficient for it to alter the quality of water, therefore, to have a very wide incidence. As such, I believe that it has an important effect from a preventive and ultimately repressive point of view. So my intervention is just to say that we follow this bill. We understand that it is necessary in our criminal law that these environmental crimes are more characterized, that we follow European legislation on this and, above all, that we see the light of the day in a practical way, and that the authorities also have competences, capacities and training to implement this new design of environmental crimes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u142	You now have the floor, for one speech, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the idea that there is a very wide-ranging fight has been consolidated, I would say, of course, that more work is being done in the European Union than in other parts of the world, against climate change and for the preservation of biodiversity, for the benefit of the environment and for the reduction of pollution rates. This is a struggle which has no borders, has no ideologies and, of course, does not have parties, as, in fact, it was expressed here by the position of the Left Block, which gave its generic agreement on these amendments to the Penal Code, and since, moreover, it had already been well highlighted in the previous debate, when it really and originally transposed the directive in 2011, in which the Socialist Party also voted favourably for the transposition of this directive. So what we want to express here is, firstly, to praise the initiative, which reinforces the criminalization of environmental crimes, of so-called ecological crimes, which often compromise and face, in an irreversible way, the very valuable rights of human life, particularly those we all have to live in a healthy and balanced environment. The government, with this initiative, not only respects these directives but essentially answers four questions. First, he realized that there is a very large collective need to prevent and suppress environmental attacks. Secondly, it also noted that it is necessary to protect the contribution of the maritime sector to the construction and the understanding of European construction. Thirdly, I believe that this transposition is also underlying a empowerment of the sea economy, which is very important in a country like ours, which is bathed by sea. Fourthly, I also think it is crucial to bet on smart and inclusive growth. Therefore, Madam Minister, the PSD Parliamentary Group naturally agrees with the extension of the possibilities for criminalization now made in the Criminal Code and with the accession which the Government makes increasingly social disapproval caused by these conducts. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u144	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u145	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Socialist Party also supports this legislative initiative, in order to safeguard environmental issues, in particular what is now about ship pollution. Therefore, we believe that everything in the sense of deepening criminal protection in relation to these behaviors deserves our agreement. Mr Minister, of course, there is a question of how we will be legislating in the Criminal Code to stocks, because we are currently undergoing another amendment to the Criminal Code, we have this — and we must be alerting and paying attention, in particular in the field of specialty — and the effect of accounting legislation on the codes, in particular in the Criminal Code, has as a consequence... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] No, in substance, we have already reached agreement, Mr President, on the form of the procedure. It is that when codes are changed, particularly account-to-books, the result is that there is no balance, which we must seek to do here, between the criminal frameworks. It is in this sense that I draw attention to the fact that, when this diploma comes down to the committee, we can measure the criminal frameworks in order to balance it with other legal goods of equal dignity and which must also be protected criminally. It is this warning, this warning that the Socialist Party here leaves, in the sense that we follow this bill but we must heed the criminal frameworks that are set here, in order to balance it with the other protected legal goods. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u146	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: First of all, and not having a fundamental disagreement about the diploma, even if not having a very enthusiastic accession either, we recall that the fact that it is a transposition of a directive does not necessarily have to be marked positively, in particular in an area in which the directives cannot affect, which is precisely criminal law. On the content of this bill presented by the Government, it is about improving an existing criminal regime, criminalizing a new crime and exacerbating penalties in one another. On this subject, and even though we have no element that can, for now, in this debate in general, call into question the proposed criminal framework — and we also reserve this space for the specialty — there are some notes that the CFP believes may already be useful for us to hold a debate on penalties and crime in the environment and against environmental values. As much as penalizing as the criminal frameworks are, as long as we continue to see the problem of the environment and the legal good environment and environmental values only in this prism, we will not be able to respond to the real problems we are facing. In fact, as long as we do not pay attention to the strengthening of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forestas), the GNR and the Maritime Police (where, especially with regard to ship-polluting discharges), as long as we do not resolve the scarcity of resources and the legal framework of these institutions, while we do not give them the tools so that they can act in the prevention but also in the detection of the crime and then in the continuation of the process resulting from the identification of the crime, we will not solve the problem. It's not just throwing more aggravated criminal frameworks for the laws that we're going to solve the problem. Therefore, regardless of that — and of course one thing has to go hand in hand with the other — the CFP draws attention to these issues, without, of course, failing to be able to contribute, in the specialty, to the improvement and even to the deepening of the proposed criminal frameworks and the typification of the crime now proposed here, which is, in fact, an advance to unprotected habitats, even in relation to the directive. But in this case too, without the means, with the shortage that we have of nature watchers and the inability of the GNR to be on the ground, we will continue to see environmental crimes only after they have been committed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u148	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u149	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: When Mr. President recently asked Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if you sign up and we did not, we were alone in favour of the debate and the contradiction, seeking first to hear the criticisms so that we may then be able to make the contradiction. I must say, Mr President, that there is no problem with that, because there were no criticisms justifying that same contradiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u150	I haven't intervened yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u151	Ah, we still need to hear Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia! My fault! My mistake, Mrs. Member, but no less consideration. But since there is no such possibility so far, I am simply underlining the consensuality which has occurred in this area, Mr President, which is a matter of the Criminal Code. Mr Tiago now said that this matter alone does not solve and that prevention is necessary. Yes, it will be, but one thing doesn't necessarily have to do with the other, as we have said many times. We can even agree that, in fact, prevention, means and capacity of action are very important. however, this does not prevent one from also being able to move into the Criminal Code. So I don't see that there's a problem. There is another difference, more sovereign, that is the question of whether or not we can move into our Penal Code on the basis of decisions of the European Parliament and the European Council. That's the case. And for that reason, we have no other option here but obviously to put this transposition into action. Moreover, it is clear that this transposition is already under Law No 56 / 2011, of 15 November. Therefore, we are basically making a clarification, a rectification, a correctness, in relation to a transposition that has already been made previously and in which the Portuguese State is called to make that rectification and the same correctness. So that's all we're dealing with right now. The objective is clear: more effective protection of the environment. This issue is current, and it should deserve our concern, exacerbating criminal frameworks in relation to environmental crimes, typifying the cases in which this worsening should be applied and, on the other hand, harmonizing, particularly in the case of maritime pollution crime, which we should be so concerned about, with which we have been so often faced — and faced with so much seriousness — and in which European harmonisation is needed, because coastal countries, in particular, as Portugal, will have to have a natural concern with these maritime pollution crimes and with their gravity. Without wanting to be very critical too, because it was not, Mrs Isabel Oneto said, well, that we have to take some care, because we are moving in criminal matters, particularly in the Criminal Code, the accounts. Well, but when we are dealing with a specific matter arising from the transposition of directives, Mrs Deputies, that is a little inevitable. We can say: "Let's not move." No, we have to move! A weighting may be made to ensure that criminal frameworks are adequate—and this weighting is surely done or will not cease to be done. I shall finish as I began by saying that in substance in relation to Article 278. we are clarifying the cases in which we have this worsening of the criminal frameworks in relation to environmental crimes and then we have a harmonisation in the crime of maritime pollution, which seems of the greatest importance. So, underlining the consensus thus far generated by the House, I would also like to leave our agreement on this subject on the part of the CDS. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u152	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u153	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I begin with your statement. Do you know what the problem was with your speech? It is because you are opposed to the practice you know of your majority, which is the following: all that comes from the oppositions is to reject. And then he thought that all that was coming from the government was to be rejected by the oppositions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u154	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u155	Now, here is proof of what we often say: when things are right, we vote in favour, Mr. Don't you have any doubts! And now I am addressing the Minister of Justice to say that the Greens will vote in favour of this bill that the Government here presents to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u156	The honourable Member is one of the most concordant!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u157	Now, I also want to highlight some things here, and perhaps even take advantage of the presence of the Minister, who is not the Minister of the Environment, but the Minister of Justice, but because we, the Greens, consider that environmental matters should, in fact, be transversal matters in government, it is important that some things be said, even if we are discussing some specificities. Madam Minister, we are talking about aggravating the penal framework for ship-polluting discharges. Now, I want to tell you, Mrs Minister, that the surveillance system in Portugal is not working. The maritime surveillance system is not working. It's broken, Mrs. Minister, it's lame! So here is a fundamental factor in the level of prevention that makes us very fragile. And Mrs. Minister is already downstream, isn't she? The Minister is already at the end of her career on a course that can be followed, but what she is before, Minister, is extremely important. And the Minister, who has responsibility for penalties and criminalization, should draw the attention of the Minister of Agriculture to this I am telling her. It's just that this whole thing must have a conductor wire. I also want to say that I find it extremely important — in my view, it is a qualitative leap that takes place here — the preservation, if I can call it (because I think it is also a preservation factor) of some components of biodiversity, not only in protected habitats but also in unprotected habitats. We need to break this logic of the borders of protected areas and understand that biodiversity does not have borders, runs far beyond everything that is classified area, and that species do not restrict themselves to those that are classified in their importance, either because they are unique, or because they are in the process of extinction, and out there. That is to say, there is a whole dimension of biodiversity which is extremely important to our life, to our safety, to what is unknown to us today and which, in the near future or longer term, can come to be known, and from it we will be able to derive numerous benefits, such as at the level of medicines, and out there. Biodiversity is a small box of surprises, but extremely important for the future of humanity. And we have very little care for her, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What I wanted to reaffirm here is that this leap for unprotected habitats is extremely important, in order to broaden our perspective of "care for". I think it's an extraordinarily important leap.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u158	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr Telmo Correia, the honourable Member was not confident, but unanimity was also reached here. You see? He didn't miss much. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u160	The Minister for Justice has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u161	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, with regard to her speech and some of the previous interventions, I would first of all like to clarify that it was not a mere transposition of a directive here because we did empower the discharge in terms that were not provided for in the directive. Secondly, the fact that we protect unprotected habitats from a legal point of view was not an imposition either. And the possibility of conversion into fines was not exactly an imposition either. So there has been a renewed effort on the part of the government to protect the environment. As for the one mentioned by Mrs Isabel Oneto, I only hope, Mrs Deputies, that the harmonisation of the criminal frameworks will not be lost in translation. It is that, in fact, it is perfectly harmonised, it has been studied and criminal frameworks are also a form of general prevention. Criminal frameworks are a form of general crime prevention. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u162	With no further inscriptions, the general debate of Bill No 325 / XII ( 4 ) is concluded. ( a). We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the joint debate, in general, on the proposal for a law No 324 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims and the projects of lein. 959 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September 2009 - Compensation scheme for victims of violent crimes and domestic violence ( PCP ) and 961 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence ( BE ). To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today brings to the debate Bill No. 324 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which seeks to introduce amendments to Law No 112 / 2009 on the legal regime for the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims. This proposal is justified by the need to purge the useless law, to clarify some of its rules that have always raised doubts and misunderstandings, to bring to the legal framework new realities that have been created over the past few years, in response to problems identified. The proposal is also justified by the opportunity to introduce innovative figures in Portugal but experienced in comparative law. These are examples of these objectives in the order set out: the revocation of the restorative meeting provided for in Article 39. the, questionable since its consecration, and today manifestly contrary to the provisions of the Istanbul Convention ; the clarification of the public network of support to victims in relation to the care institutions, in the current drafting designated by specialized centres and centres of care, in a complex and confusing typology, which the institutions themselves often did not understand; the integration into the public network of emergency response for victims of domestic violence in sheltered homes or in autonomous structures, thus bringing to the legal type a new solution that already has 130 new vacancies; the creation of the retrospective analysis team of homicides in domestic violence, consisting of representatives of public bodies, local authorities and civil society bodies involved in each case analyzed, subject to a court decision passed under trial, with the aim of deepening the detailed knowledge of each occurrence and hence withdrawing useful information to the better prevention and intervention of futures. Other amendments are proposed to assign equal importance to, inter alia, the inclusion in the law of priority care to victims in privacy conditions, practised by the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Formation Professional ), as well as priority access to job offers; the extension of the universe of goods liable to be removed by the victim in case of departure from the home to goods not only of children but of older persons who depend on it; the creation of the database of domestic violence; the strengthening of the intervention of security forces, providing for the development of an individualized safety plan for the victims and an intensification of the linkage of these forces with all structures that integrate the public network. I also refer to the withdrawal of the law from the exceptional character of the extension of the teleassistant measure beyond six months. In order for it to be extended, an exceptional circumstance should not be invoked, it will be sufficient, from the approval of this proposal, for the protection of the victim to continue to justify the existence of this measure. Finally, I would like to stress that the criminal police agencies are able to direct the victims to emergency reception facilities, following the victim's request and in accordance with the risk assessment. What motivates us, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the will to draw conclusions from the experience gained on the ground and from the intense work carried out by the Government in fundamental partnerships with organizations of society, authorities and entities of the sectors involved, proposing, at the end of this legislature, that the law be clearer, more complete and more able to respond to the needs of this strong but dynamic reality, which is domestic violence. This violence, which affects children and elderly people of both sexes but has in women the overwhelming majority of their victims, demands of us a persistent and proactive attitude, which keeps it at the heart of public debate as a persistent and unbearable violation of human rights, making it increasingly intolerable by Portuguese society, which has been so permissive with it for so many years. And if it is true that the country continues to have a serious problem in domestic violence, it is also true that it has never talked so much about this violence, it has never done so much to discredit it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u165	... he never sensitized himself and trained so many people for this struggle and there were never so many means and answers available for the prevention of domestic violence and for the protection and subsequent empowerment of his victims. The Government is sure of the systematic, serious and committed contribution it has made to this fight and this bill is only one more front to this effort, now in the regulatory aspect. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u166	To present, Bill No. 959 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, domestic violence, despite the measures that have been taken over the years, continues to make a heinous mark of the lives of many families, affecting particularly women and children. For the Portuguese Communist Party, all effective measures that prevent violence, inhibit its effects, protect victims and eradicate phenomena of aggression, humiliation and oppression should be considered. To this end, the State has a constitutional obligation to ensure adequate material and human resources, in training and sufficient numbers, so that, in the various dimensions of approach to this scourge, in the field of prevention, monitoring and eradication and also at the level of the justice system and the necessary professionals, these judicial or technical officials of the multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts are an effective reality. The PCP recognizes as important the need to strengthen the protection of victims and therefore presents this legislative initiative in order to advance with elements that fill gaps existing in Law No 104 / 2009 of 14 September, which approved the scheme to grant compensation to victims of violent crimes and domestic violence. With this initiative, the CFP proposes the introduction of greater clarity to the concept of violent crime; the definition that compensation to be granted to the victim has the value of the national minimum wage and the possibility of granting compensation to victims of domestic violence through a single provision and ensuring that the secretariat of administrative support to the Commission operates with three full-time members, one of them being a jurist for supporting procedural work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today victims of domestic violence have the right to grant compensation by the State when the following requirements are fulfilled cumulatively: when the crime of domestic violence is involved and when it is in serious economic shortage as a result of this crime. This initiative of the CFP aims to be a contribution to strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence, by ensuring adequate material and human conditions and by increasing the monthly value of compensation to be allocated to victims. The commitment of the CFP is to eradicate all forms of violence against women. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u168	To present Bill No 961 / XII ( 4. ( a ) you have the floor to Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Madam Secretary of State, whom I welcome, on the initiative of the Left Block, 15 years ago, with the favourable votes of the PSD, the PS, the CFP and the Greens, the amendment to Article 152. the Criminal Code, making domestic violence a public crime. Turning back a bit, Mr Luís Fazenda then said, and I quote: "We do not know that this measure alone does not fight the scourge. But it was urgent a strong sign». And give it to me. So we argue that this amendment to the Penal Code required many other measures, such as the removal of the aggressor from home, the creation of shelters, care structures for victims, support for associations working on the ground, specific training for all actors, priority in social housing. Only the CDS understood that this initiative was wrong because it did not comply with the will of the victim. He then asked the CDS, the only party to vote against, by the voice of Mrs Celeste Cardona : « And where does Maria go, who carries tasks from Antonio but is unemployed and has two children? What about her? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Much has been done since then, in particular, the shelter houses, which we have also proposed, but the central issue remains that of the empowerment of the victims. To the question « Where is Maria going? We continue to say: « The departing Antony». And the bill that we present today is another step in this direction, by opening up the possibility of arresting the aggressor out of flagrant crime, by allowing the aggressor to depart from the police authority and by linking the suspension of imprisonment to rules of conduct or the regime of proof, accompanying, in part, the proposals that the majority proposed to enshrine in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u170	There are changes in the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u171	There are changes in the CDS, it's true. We welcome the CFP initiative as relevant and timely and we see significant changes in this bill, without prejudice to any proposals we can make. There are positive aspects, such as the strengthening of the police protection of victims, the individualized security plan, the retrospective analysis of homicide in the context of domestic violence and the priority in access to job offers—the problem is even in the lack of policies for job creation—the updating of the national victim support network, the definition of the competences of the IGC (Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality) and the ISS (Instituto de Seguridad Social), although we cannot understand why there is no specification of all care structures, the care centres, the victim support centres, the victim support offices, because they are structures that have their own identity and, in this sense, we would be able to continue to commit them to the proposed law. However, let us not deceive ourselves, and I will mention the very recent words of a Prosecutor: « We can improve, and much, the law, we are on this path, but if there is no human resources adjusted for swift justice, we can move much into the law that the essential thing is in this obligation of justice to respond to these victims». in this sense, the Left Block is, as always, in this fight, in this fight for the improvement of this law and for the fight against this scourge that continues to make so many victims in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u172	To request clarification from the Secretary of State, Members Teresa Anjinho of the CDS-PP and Carla Rodrigues of the PSD. Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u173	Mr President, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mr as and Mrs Members, the discussion of this bill, the importance of which is indisputable, brings back to plenary a subject which, being recurrent, remains dramatically current. Despite the increased attention of the legislator or the executioner, the phenomenon of domestic violence continues to show worrying figures. It is true, and we must all recognize it, that part of the expression of reality in many is renewed to greater visibility of the problem, to greater effectiveness of the system and, therefore, to increased confidence in institutions. But the greatest truth, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the drama continues and, alongside the numbers and their interpretations, are the lives of people we cannot ignore. We're doing better and better. Not to acknowledge it or not to say it would be to devalue the work and dedication, which I take advantage, in fact, to exalt, of all the agents of the system. But we have to go on. Domestic violence is a complex phenomenon which, therefore, requires a complex response, permanent attention, in particular by the legislator himself. Despite the number of shares, data from the Directorate-General for Internal Administration point to archiving rates above 75 %. They're one of the most difficult crimes to investigate. Getting proof depends heavily on the testimony of the victim, victim who during the investigation does not rarely choose to remain silent — a silence that can both originate in guilt or emotional dependence from the aggressor as result of simpler justifications, such as, exactly, the lack of security. To cooperate, the victim needs to feel safe. In this respect, I believe that there is an innovation introduced in this bill that can contribute to improving the effectiveness of the system: the creation of individual safety plans. Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, my question is very simple: what does it consist of and how will these individual security plans be operationalized? In this regard, and why do I believe that it was a very important innovation in the risk assessment, I would like to ask another question: is there already data to monitor, monitor and evaluate these new forms approved in November? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u174	The Bureau was informed that the Secretary of State will answer together. Thus, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, domestic violence is a burden. It is a burden for victims, who carry it with suffering; it is a burden for society, because no society is sufficiently developed while suffering from this drama; and it is a burden for political decision makers. And let me say that it is a burden for all political decision-makers, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, whether they are the BE, the PCP, the PSD, the CDS. Justice is done, all the political parties represented in this House have committed themselves to combating this drama. All political decision makers realize that, as far as this fight is concerned, reality is still far from what we would like. And I say « no matter how much it is done » because, indeed, much has been done, especially in the last four years of legislation. The time devoted to this debate will always be short enough to list everything that has been done in the context of prevention and combating domestic violence. So I will focus on only two partial aspects of the diploma that the Government brings to our discussion today, which I think are eloquent: the prevention, on the one hand, and the protection and empowerment of the victims, on the other. in the field of prevention, I highlight the role of security forces, PSP and GNR, and the numerous training actions that have been carried out since 2012 for these professionals on domestic violence. I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, if you have numbers on the universe of effectives that have already been covered by these training actions, which also included judges, health professionals and victim support technicians, slightly throughout the country. Regarding the protection and empowerment of victims, special attention was given to one aspect, to a new phase in the life of the victim, to the beginning. So I ask the Secretary of State if you have any data on this extraordinary measure which is "The School Goes to Home-Friendly". The shelter provides not only shelter, not only protection, not just reception, it also provides instruction, provides tools, provides new weapons so that the victim returns to a new life, has a new hope and has a new opportunity. With regard to this extraordinary measure, I ask the Secretary of State if you have any data on the impact of this measure on the lives of the victims. Another measure that is also extraordinary and that I would like to highlight, has to do with priority in access to job offers and with priority care, as well as privacy, in employment centres. It is a matter of fundamental justice to have priority, privacy, employment, vocational training. Finally, a new life for the victims. Mr Secretary of State, I ask: What is the feedback from the implementation of these measures on the ground? What data can you move us forward? All we can do to relieve this burden will always be little before this huge burden of victims of domestic violence. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u176	To reply, I have the floor of the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u177	Mr President, in addition to thanking the questions put by Mrs Teresa Anjinho and Mrs Carla Rodrigues, I would like to ask you, in advance, to give the floor to my colleague Secretary of State for Internal Administration, who may, in more detail, refer to the subject of the individualised security plan, to the point of the situation on the risk assessment sheet, which the security forces have implemented since November 2014, and to the data on the formation of security forces. Mrs Teresa Anjinho, I would like to say that she is obviously right when she speaks of a very complex phenomenon and when she refers to the archival numbers. We know that the victims take on average 13 years to make the decision to finally turn off and empower their aggressors. Many, throughout this period, make several failed attempts and, although it is a public crime, in fact, if there is no ease in the collection of evidence, nor collaboration by the victims, the process will eventually die on its own, without being able to be consequent. It is also true that sometimes the process dies for another type of reason, dies without condemnation. But here we are talking about the fact that there is a very large set of sentencing sentences that, despite everything, are not effective prison sentences, are penalties that end up suspended in 89% of cases, as evidenced by a recent study of the University of Coimbra. Therefore, the process does not reach the end to which we would like, which was to see the aggressors duly punished, because, in many cases, the suspension of the penalty does not bring sufficient protection to the victim and leaves the aggressor at liberty. As regards this, my position is known and it is also known that the majority have made proposals in this regard, in which precisely it associates the need for weighting of victim protection measures to the extent of suspension of the penalty. With regard to the questions raised by Mrs Carla Rodrigues, I would like to stress that the issues you have chosen in relation to matters covered by the law are fundamental, because the law has not so far provided for the very measure that the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Educação Profissionale) has been pursuing with regard to the application of a priority in the care reserved for victims of domestic violence and the placement of these victims in jobs. Madam Member, I can tell you that, as long as this measure is in progress, she has already taken into account and helped 1243 victims. And all these women had, in the 84 focal points of IEFP in the country, priority and reserved care. I also wanted to tell you that the project "The School Go to Home Home" is new, it went into operation this year and, at this time, involves 14 foster homes in pilot project. in these 14 houses, there are 21 teachers placed by the Ministry of Education, according to the profile and the appropriate selection that was made for this function. 82 women are currently involved in this project. This was another idea that arose from visits to the grounds and shelters and from the fact that when women, for security reasons, cannot leave the shelter, the reception time can be a waste of time if the school is not at home. Mr President, I would like to ask you to allow me to speak to my colleague Secretary of State for Internal Administration. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u178	Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u179	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Anjinho raised two questions and was the first on the individual safety plan. The honourable Member said, and very well, that the victim, to cooperate, must feel secure, and that is exactly the objective of individual security plans. It is therefore intended, with very clear indications, transmitted in person to the victims, to be able, in some way, to prepare the victim, as far as possible, for a number of situations that he will have to deal with. This is first of all to define three type profiles, which have already determined, at the beginning, the indications given, but are not without individualised contact and specific adaptation for each case. These profiles are used to guide the security forces in a first approach and in a first evaluation and are for situations where the victim does not intend to end the relationship or leave the home within the next six months, for cases where the victim intends to end the relationship or leave the home within the next six months or for cases where the victim no longer lives with the attacker. Therefore, there are three clearly distinct realities that have, as soon as they start, a program defined previously. What do these programs contain? of security during the violent act or after aggression and indications about that reality; of security and psychological well-being; of important contacts for the victim to be able to act immediately; of daily security when living with the aggressor; of issues as simple as the list of documents that must take if he wants to leave home suddenly or the security measures he must have to be able to, after making that decision and to carry out, deal with the situation. in the background, this allows security forces that, in a simple way, inform each of the victims of a series of procedures that can protect them and that can be decisive in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u180	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u181	Mr. President, I will finish quickly. As regards the issue of individualised forms, they are, of course, the basis of these plans. A questionnaire has already been made by the General Secretariat of the Ministry of Internal Administration, to 38 security forces commands, having been identified 8700 first evaluations and 6900 revaluations made by the security forces since November. I can tell you, for example, that the level of risk attributed in the first evaluations was 25, 8 % in low-level cases, 48 % in middle-level cases and 26 % in high-level cases. with regard to training, which Mrs Carla Rodrigues has put, in the last three years, 225 trainers were trained in the security forces and, at the level of police elements, 10 996 were trained in the PSP and 13 006 in the GNR. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Domestic violence is an atrocious reality that we have not yet won, despite all the efforts we have been making and that has been transversal to all governments over these 15 years, since it was defined in 2000 as a public crime. Today, on average, 40 women continue to die each year, killed by partners with whom they lived or with whom they had already stopped living, and there are 27 000 victims who have the courage to complain to the security forces. I want to say here that the PS has always been, is and will be in front of this fight. And I remember only a few facts: public crime—present! — a new legal type of crime, including extending the concept to new realities, in particular to intimate relationships between persons of the same sex, when we had not even approved marriage between persons of the same sex, and Law No 112/2009. This Act, whose proposed amendments we are discussing today, rightly reflects the priority given by the Socialist Party to combating domestic violence and, in 2009, constituted a significant and distinct legislative step forward based on principles of equality, principles of will autonomy, principles of protection of the victim in the various areas of his life and his relationship with society, from work to health, etc. Law No. 112/2009 therefore presented a paradigmatic change: domestic violence is now and under the law only a family issue to become a human rights issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u184	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u185	Domestic violence is a gender-based violence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u186	It's always been!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u187	... because it is rooted in inequalities between men and women who are structural and in power relations that, as much as we fight them and we have done so much, persist. Then that our fight can't have truces. in this line, the Istanbul Convention also consolidates the vision that we have already proposed in this law and at the same time proposes comprehensive and integrated ways to combat it, as the 2009 Act provided for. It was very difficult to build this intervention puzzle, for which OPCs (criminal police bodies), NGOs (non-governmental organizations), the Supreme Councils of Justice of the Public Ministry, an extended hearing to a society that was involved, and this Parliament too, in the construction of this law, which was intended to be comprehensive and global. There has been nothing to be done since the urgent nature of detention outside of flagrant crime, which is unfortunately not done, from remote electronic means of control, which is fortunately being done, and well — it has been done either by the previous government or by this government, and that many deaths, although many continue to be, have prevented. I am also referring to the treatment of aggressors, the victim protection network, various social support, and I cannot fail to mention the exemption of moderate rates for victims of domestic violence and something very innovative, which also continues to fulfill, which is education for citizenship. But although everything has been equationed, not everything has been fulfilled, which is normal with any law, and this does not run away from this rule because the application of laws is always very much below the objectives and principles they set out. The Sub-Commission on Equality has done at this level a very exhaustive and very intense work and has promoted various hearings, either with the Superior Council of the Magistracy, or with the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, with the Order of Advocates, with the PGR, with non-governmental organizations and with experts in the area, to realize — that is very important — what we need to do, after all we have done (and has been much) in a cross-sectional and global intervention to combat this scourge. The PS therefore welcomes the Government's initiative and also welcomes the initiatives of the Left Block and the PCP to improve the law, as improvements are always welcome, and also to improve the law of compensation to victims of domestic violence in order to deepen knowledge and to strengthen the protection of victims, as well as in collecting data for a rigorous analysis of these realities. We have some reservations about some aspects, but we express our full willingness to make this discussion in the specialty. There is a theme that is dear to us and that was again introduced here by the Left Block, which has to do with the urgent removal of the aggressor. The aggressor must depart in good time, because, if not, we have measures to remove the victim. We have to get the aggressor away!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u189	The PS, aware of the urgency of this need, has also presented projects in this legislative session, which, unfortunately, have been plummeted, and has been included in its discussion. But life is like this, and we continue to contribute to improving the projects that are on the table. For us, the Socialist Party, this is the nerve center of fighting to avoid marital murders. Or we found a solution to remove the aggressor in good time, as proposed by the Block and as proposed by the PS, or then we could not, at all, block this battle...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u191	...and the women continue to die, murdered, at the door of the house, inside or outside it, by the people they decided to live with. A society, Mr President, is only truly democratic and free when there are no women who are afraid to live because they are afraid to be murdered by the men with whom they have chosen to live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u192	For an intervention, Mrs Francisca Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Never as today has the crime of domestic violence been as visible, never as today has been as clear the deoccultation of the phenomenon and never as today have mobilized so much efforts both on the part of the Government and on the part of Parliament, both on the part of civil society in the fight against, priority and decided on, this type of violence. Despite this, the cruelty of numbers can only once again be questioned and joined in the development of prevention policies, a structure of support for the most capable and more flexible victims and a legal-criminal framework more appropriate to this reality. This has motivated this government and this majority and I believe that everyone in this House, including the Socialist Party itself, recognises that since the adoption of the law of domestic violence very much has been done in the context of prevention and combating this form of violence. In fact, it was with this government that, for the first time, the emergency reception was created—which now, moreover, wins legal consecration—with 130 vacancies in the shelters of the public network. It was with this government that, for the first time, the transport service of victims of domestic violence and their children was established to ensure that they were transported under adequate security conditions of the care facilities to shelters. And the living conditions and comfort conditions of all the shelters of the public network have been improved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this law also reflects a decisive commitment by this Government to empowering the victims. for the first time, a grant was allocated to each of the managing entities of the shelters intended to support the victims at the time of their exit. And it was also created, as already mentioned here, the project « The school goes to the shelter » with the very relevant numbers to which you mentioned the Secretary of State. However, we know that the measures to support housing had to be legally enshrined, since they are now available to victims of low-cost dwellings either through solidarity municipalities or through protocols between the IGC (Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality) and the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana). This access under privileged conditions is now reflected in the law. in the same sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we stress the priority given to victims in employment centres, with reserved priority care and, having demonstrated the success of this initiative — the Secretary of State has already pointed out the numbers — now wins legal consecration. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a word also to give notice of the project here presented by the majority and which was, moreover, approved in general and which alters the criminal and criminal procedural framework, decisively reinforcing the protection of victims of domestic violence. A project to which I believe, of course, the Left Block now comes, in some way, to respond and complement with the project it presents. With regard to the project that Mrs Elza Pais presented, I would like to tell her that she was plummeted because she was redundant and unconstitutional and therefore did not mean a contribution that could be legally acceptable in this House. In fact, that was what they said about the opinions that were received here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the law that we are discussing here today is a legislative task which has been done for a long time, but which, at the same time, is innovative in aspects which are considered decisive by those who work with this type of problem on the ground. This is the case of the obvious strengthening of the intervention of the police, the recognition of the right of the victim to withdraw from his residence not only his property and those of his minor children, but also those of the older person in charge and the creation of the retrospective analysis team of homicide in domestic violence, in order to be able, in fact, to sign and monitor new procedures and methodologies of a preventive nature. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the government to change the law of domestic violence once and for all. It makes it clearer for all, more operational for the police, for the care and reception structures but, above all, more capable of ensuring effective protection of the victim. For this wish, of course, it will count on the contribution of the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u195	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I would like to make some general considerations, starting by saying that the CFP follows the objectives of the bill and the bill of the Left Block here under discussion, because we understand that they contribute to the protection of victims. With regard to the proposal for a law, we believe that many of the matters of improvement and updating of the law are measures that have been taken and that, in some ways, they are enshrined in this diploma, but we also believe that the main obstacle to the law is not their need for improvement, which we are discussing today, but above all, the conditions of application of the law. We have repeatedly been warned by the organisations about the need to ensure that we are not before « revitalization ». This is because they often tell us that the time of justice is not the time of victims. And the victims are faced with a suffering that gets worse and persists precisely because often the working conditions of the courts do not allow time and hours to intervene, prolonging these situations. Other subjects we wanted to bring here are related to the allocation of victim status. We had the opportunity to put the question to the Secretary of State on the fact that there are social security delegations that take months to assign the status of the victim and thus delay the progress of the proceedings, placing these women in truly negative situations. with regard to economic and social conditions, we must not fail to warn the following: the CFP has identified as important improvements all the matters that contribute to the strengthening of victims, but we have also always had the care and obligation to warn that, in the context of worsening poverty and social exclusion, women, and in this case victims, become more vulnerable all kinds of violence. That is why we must not fail to warn about the impact of unemployment, poverty and economic dependence on women against aggressors and how this contributes to the worsening of these situations. That is why, in terms of the discussion of the laws under discussion today, the CFP follows the objectives but we understand that the eradication of all forms of violence against women, especially at the economic and social level, also requires another policy that guarantees a decent living conditions for all. This is the commitment of the CFP in law and in life and, therefore, we understand that the steps that take are important, because it is in law and in life that must be assured. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u197	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I welcome the terms in which this debate took place. I recognize that there was some irritation in the initial intervention of the PSD, but I only pointed out facts. Facts are facts, and it is fact that the CDS voted against at the time, although there is a recognizable evolution. It is true that the initiative to make domestic violence a public crime was ours, having obtained a large majority at the time of its approval in this House. I would, however, like to highlight two questions. First of all, I want to acknowledge that Law No 112/2009 was a very large advance, which is a good law and that with this bill it is updated and improved in some aspects. I leave this matter of substance without any kind of cynicism. We know that it is a good law, often not implemented and often not known — the Secretary of State well knows this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u199	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u200	Therefore, the underlying question is whether this time this law is to apply, to protect the victims, to put them on the ground, with all the articles it has. The second question has to do with what Mrs Carla Rodrigues said about political decision-makers. That is what we are talking about today, and I have recorded that there was not on the part of the majority any note on the other diplomas, in particular on the draft law of the Left Block, and on the issue of, in our view, pressing, on the one hand, to speed up detention out of flagrant crime and on the other hand, we find the formulation more appropriate to the urgency of the aggressor's withdrawal. I therefore leave to you the invitation that this reflection may be made and matured, as the victims demand and deserve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u201	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Domestic violence is, unfortunately, and regardless of all the attention, commitment and investment it has deserved, a global and national reality. From private to public, it is an ongoing problem that, as we all know, has a particular impact on women. It is clear to me that — and throughout this legislature I have so often said — that governments, Parliament and relevant organizations should be coordinated and integrated in their work, taking advantage of national but also international synergies, both at the level of prevention, repression and, in particular, of protection and support for the victim. For almost four years, in circumstances that we all easily recognized as extremely difficult, it was for us, and for me in particular, very gratifying to realize how, at all levels, this vision and this strategy was always present in the current public policies and the issue of domestic violence remained in the priorities of reflection and also action. Renewal with reinforcement and reinforcement with innovation, in a remarkable and consequent openness to civil society. Greater efficiency, greater transparency, greater accountability. In summary, and knowing that much will be said at the level of the protection of the victim, I am talking about new subsidies to the care centres; new emergency reception breaks; emergency transport; the teleassistation system; the extension of training actions; the number of electronic surveillance devices. in the framework of the empowerment and training of victims, speaking of the creation of a new fund, to be managed by shelters; the facilitation of access to housing, whether with protocols concluded with municipalities, either with the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation (IHRU) itself; the facilitation of access to employment and training; and, no less important, as already mentioned, of the programme « The school goes to shelter ». Measures, all of them, very important, in the field of such social integration and socio-professional integration, to enable victims to resume their desire. In addition, the training of professionals involved in this area has been strengthened, as has already been mentioned here, and many others have been the measures taken in the field of awareness-raising. Today, with the introduction of this bill, and paying attention to the entire route, the Government is taking an important step, which is a structural label, to improve the legal architecture underlying prevention and combating domestic violence. Improving and updating, clarifying, strengthening and consolidating strategies, in a law that thus returns Mrs Cecilia Honorio, to gain proper centrality. In short, and not wanting to devalue the past, the truth is that, as today, violence has been so spoken, it has been so debated and deserved a public investment so attentive, structural and transversal. Thus the inevitable frustration of numbers is understood. That is why, with little doubt today, I am again stating what I have always said: it is a fact that the State has the important role of defining public policies, but it is also a fact that this challenge can never be achieved only by this way, telling us - with respect to all, an important duty of citizenship and which begins, from the outset, with an important change of mentality, accompanied by a courageous change in attitudes and ways of being individual, which can from the very start by considering violence as something that should never be tolerated. That is why it is with persistence, continuity and improvement that, of course, is said to be 'welcome' to all parties and this bill is welcomed, ending with what we must of course all recognize: this is a path that is going on. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u203	Mr Elza Pais has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : To conclude, I would like to say that for the first time, we are discussing the solution for the aggressor to move away from the residence where he attacks and can kill his victim. There is always a first time in public interventions, but this must not demobilise us from the joint and transversal struggle that has to be done on these matters. The struggle did not start yesterday, neither with this government nor with the PS government, many years ago, with non-governmental organizations, with feminists who came to the streets saying: "There is a strong violation of women's human rights, so they create public policies to protect and integrate them." So it's a fight that's gonna go on. No one should have the boldness of claiming, I think; we must have the humility to realize that every new step is a contribution in this complex building of combat, prevention and, ultimately, of aid to victims to survive and build a new project of life. But we have moved forward in this paradigm in an indisputable way. In fact, PSD and CDS came to this paradigm late. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u205	I am glad they did, because the Council of Europe and the Istanbul Convention are actually strengthening this view. I would like to say that we must move forward, and we must move forward in the logic of education for citizenship.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u207	We need to build new femininities, we need to build new masculinities, and this is where the path is not yet being made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u208	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u209	It has already begun, with the anti-violence programmes on dating—there is much to say about this, the results have been very positive—but it is little.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u210	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u211	We must teach our young boys in the exercise of power without resorting to violence; we must teach our young girls in the exercise of the claim refusing submission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u212	The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality has the floor for one minute's assistance from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank and welcome the consensus that seems to exist around the proposals here today, in particular the proposal put forward by the Government, and I would also like to make some final points. Firstly, I would like to remind Mrs Elza Pais that, in fact, it was with the creation of the public nature of the crime and not with the law of domestic violence that the crime is no longer seen as a family matter. The great barrier was to overcome the private nature and assume the public legal nature of the crime. Law No 112/2009 is an important law, but obviously did not have the relevance of bringing this crime into the sphere of what should, of course, be denounced and persecuted, regardless of the interests of individuals. I would also like to remind you that everyone agrees — this has been mentioned several times — that the aggressor must be removed from the residence. But I also remember that the measure of removal from the aggressor of residence is in the law, and it is in the law, as it is in the Code, many years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u214	It's not like that! Listen to GNR!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u215	So it's not because we want to put back on the law what's already there that we're going to solve a problem that hasn't been solved yet. To that end, the Government has done everything within its reach, in particular through the training and awareness-raising of judges for the use of a figure that already exists and which they apply very little. from there that often in actions with the Judicial Studies Centre and with the PGR, I return to the magistrates themselves the question that is asked to me very often. People often ask: “But why don’t the judges say that the aggressor has to go out and let the victim go? » For the judges have this decision in their hands, it is a judicial decision, the decision away from the aggressor. What the Block proposes, in fact, is something different from what the PS proposes. Let's not confuse things! The proposals are not the same and, from this point of view, I would like to welcome the Left Block, because we can agree that the proposal sets the limits on the constitutionality of the police measures it presents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u216	I would like to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u217	...but it's not a coughy proposal nor is it wrong. It is a matter of principle to want or not to accept it. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying the following: the Socialist Party, this time in a more consensual speech, which I welcome, has not in any case ceased to make a re-editation of its famous blackout theory. He has shut down four years of public policy, forgotten everything that has been done in these four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u218	I would like to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u219	...the measures that no one had ever discerned, that no one had ever considered important and that were taken. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u220	They are there, in the eyes of everyone, but the Socialist Party cannot recognize them, it is superior to its forces. I conclude, Mr President, by saying only, and because this news did not have enough public prominence, but I believe that Parliament will like to know and greet, that the election of a Portuguese lawyer Helena Leitão, for GREVIO (Group of Experts on Actiongainst Violence against Women and Domestic Violence), which will monitor the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, and Portugal was one of the countries whose candidacy was voted for by all the electorate countries. Therefore, one of the 10 experts elected for GREVIO is a Portuguese, Attorney Helena Leitão. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u221	Madam Secretary of State, I would also like to remind you that, being Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, you well understand the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on our agenda, so we are going to move on to the general debate of Bill No 327 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Defines the rules for the financing of humanitarian firefighter associations on the continent as firefighter bodies. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese firefighters are a unique case in the international landscape and are a remarkable example of courage, solidarity, self-denial, mission spirit and assistance in the pursuit of the common good. If the public recognition of our firefighters is notorious, it should have consequences on the stability and transparency of the financing of their associations. in this context, we present today to this House a law of financing humanitarian associations with firearm bodies. It was understood by the Government that, given the relevance of the matter, even if it could legislate by decree or port, the law force of the Assembly of the Republic would value the intended objective. With this proposal, we intend to go beyond the avous support and subsidies, defined through orders and protocols, which over time have been structuring the responsibilities of the State in this matter. Central administration funding for humanitarian associations must be more transparent and predictable and more appropriate to the reality of each fire corporation. To this end, five fundamental criteria were defined to be taken into account in the characterization of each fire department: area covered, inhabitants covered, risk index of the area of action, number of recorded occurrences and number of elements of the active and control framework. Thus, we want a clearer and objective definition of the funds to be attributed to each humanitarian association of volunteer firefighters, based on operational factors more tailored to the needs and context of each association. In addition, the Government understood that at the time of this legislative amendment it was justified to increase the overall value of funding to humanitarian associations in the sense that they have greater capacity to respond to the financial difficulties they face. An increase of 12 % in the current context means a significant budgetary effort, and it is also emphasized that the law contains a clause that ensures that all associations will receive more than they received in 2014 in 2015. This is therefore a significant moment in the relationship between the State and humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters. The Government is committed to submitting this proposal, and it is certain that Parliament will associate itself with this recognition of the relevance of the Portuguese firefighters. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u225	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u226	Mr. President, Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In a mandate as demanding as this has been, when it was necessary to take a number of difficult but necessary measures, I can say that this is a particularly rewarding moment for me. It is today the day when the Government brings the debate in the Assembly of the Republic to the realization of a project, an ambitious and worthwhile project, which goes in the best direction of the interests and aspirations of humanitarian firefighters associations. If there are institutions or associations that should deserve our respect and admiration, the bodies of firemen are guaranteed, as civil protection agents and principals responsible for the assistance and protection of people and goods and who are on the ground 365 days at the service of the populations. And, here you come, allow me to address a compliment to all the fire companies and a special fulfilment to the corporations of the firemen of Santo Tirso, with whom I had the privilege of sharing, days ago, the commemorations of the Fireman's Day in the municipality. Well, there's something they're doing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the noble mission that firefighters are self-evidently carrying out is fair this recognition of all, whether of the Government or of the Assembly of the Republic, to all these men and women on the ground who daily serve with dedication, commitment and personal sacrifice the well-being of the people. It is fair to acknowledge and value that the Government is here today to lend to the activity of firefighters' bodies and to which, of course, the PSD is associated with enormous conviction. It is notorious and visible that this diploma clearly reinforces the implementation of a financing model, guided by clear criteria and with the assumed ambition of obtaining the operational capacity of humanitarian associations. In addition, as well as in the right sense, transparency measures for the allocation of public funding are strengthened. Still, and no less important, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it includes financial support procedures that make the activity and mission of firefighters more predictable and programmable. The PSD feeds on the natural expectation that this diploma presented today, for the obvious merits it closes, will collect the generalized support in this House. I would end by stressing that the PSD — and by greeting Mr. Minister of Internal Administration and Mr. Secretary of State, to whom I say it is always a renewed taste to find again in this House which was also yours — strongly supports this measure in the certainty that it represents a clear benefit of valorization and recognition for humanitarian associations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u227	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u228	Mr President, Mrs Minister and Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: At the beginning of our speech in this debate we wanted to welcome not only the firefighters in Portugal but also the firefighters and the leaders of the League of Portuguese Firefighters who are attending this debate. The Portuguese firefighters provide an invaluable service in support of the populations, value, indeed, recognized by this House when they were awarded the Human Rights Prize a few years ago. Therefore, this recognition must have as its counterpart the State's commitment to the proper financing of firefighter bodies. Firefighters provide invaluable service in the event of natural disasters, but also in more current situations with which we are confronted every year and in some situations that occur almost daily from forest fires, urban fires, floods, accidents of the most diverse kind, transport of patients and victims... There is a fundamental public service that is provided by firefighters and where non-professional fire associations play a fundamental role. Therefore, in addition to the component of professional firefighters, we also have the volunteer firefighters who constitute a fundamental body to which the State must deserve recognition and a commitment. We want to say that this bill, bearing in mind that for many years the public commitment to public funding for firefighters has been deteriorating, particularly since 1987, is a missed opportunity to establish a stable and multi-annual framework for the financing of firefighters. It will be said that there is some recovery here in relation to the most serious situation that has occurred in recent years when we have been confronted with firefighters' associations announcing closing doors for financial inviolability. In any case, what we considered essential—and this bill does not go that way—is that it could be established, in addition to the stability of public annual funding by the State to firefighter bodies, according to transparent criteria, a multiannual financial framework to support the modernization of firefighter installations and equipment. It seems to us an opportunity that is lost and that it would be important not to lose. In other words, the State should not only worry, although of course it must be concerned, about ensuring regular funding conditions that enable the survival and proper functioning of firefighter associations. In view of the difficult situation facing many institutions, it would be necessary to establish a multi-annual framework for the State's commitment to the financing of firefighter bodies not only with regard to current funding, but above all in order to create structural conditions so that Portuguese firefighters as a whole could respond effectively to what is socially required of them. This is because very selflessly they are facing all the difficulties they face every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u229	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u230	I will finish, Mr. President. We therefore want to believe that this bill, although it may be a progress in some aspects, is a failure, especially because we believe it is a missed opportunity for not achieving a more stable financial commitment from the State in relation to firefighter bodies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u231	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and in the same terms as were done by the previous speakers, I wanted to greet the firefighters' bodies, the League, voluntary firefighters' associations and, of course, also the professional firefighters present here. We have, in fact, a mixed system and, in any case, the country, the community as such, owes a word of gratitude to all that firemen have given us, often in very difficult circumstances and times. It is enough to remember the feeling that the country lives so often and that we here in Parliament reflect during the times of fires and the losses of human lives, of young people, often in absolutely dramatic circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u233	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u234	This word of gratitude for firefighters should not only be a word of gratitude or recognition in these circumstances, but also a permanent effort to support, consolidate the means and capacity, as has been said and stressed well in other interventions, particularly in the intervention of Mrs Andreia Neto. This effort, from my point of view, has been made and we have in some way recognized that the government has taken care of this and has made that effort. An effort has been made to pay late payments that existed, in particular within the framework of the Permanent Cooperation Programme ( PPC ) ; an effort has been made to ensure that payments to be made, in particular to the associations, must be — and must be — made! — made in a timely manner and in some cases of need, certain advances have been made. It is also to welcome, it is a positive fact, that there has been a strengthening of funds. For example, in 2014 this strengthening of funds was around 11 % and this is a fact that I think is relevant and very positive from the point of view of the support these associations need. We are now faced with a new model of funding which, as has been said, may not be the solution of all the problems, but I note that, in particular, Mr António Filipe has acknowledged as a positive step. And it is important that this is a positive step. Why? For all that has already been said: firefighters, whether professionals or volunteers, have a structural role in our civil protection system, in responding to situations such as fires, in responding to disasters, in general, in response, as was remembered, accidents and other types of situations. If it weren't for this civil protection mesh, the country would be unprotected. It is therefore very important that there is a law which has conditions of stability and, above all, predictability in its financing, because it is not possible to organize the work, it is not possible to adopt the means, unless there is the minimum predictability in the financing of these institutions and, of course, if such funding is not sustainable. That is why this proposal is positive. I stress, for example, the evaluation of this same financing in terms of risk measures and indexation to a reference budget as it is in the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u235	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u236	I will finish, Mr. President. Don't ask me, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, to explain the formula contained in the proposal for this same reference budget, it is a complex formula, but with careful reading it is predictable. I conclude, Mr President, as I began by saying that it is good that this funding is guaranteed, it is good that it is sustainable, because we cannot only remember firefighters at tragic and dramatic times. We must ensure permanent and daily support and, from this point of view, this proposal is positive. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u237	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u238	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I greet the firefighters here present, professionals, volunteers, the Firefighters League and all firefighter bodies in the country. Let's see, first of all, what we're dealing with here. the firefighters are asked to carry out a task that is constitutionally imposed on the State : the protection of our citizens—Article 9. the Constitution. That's what we're dealing with here, and it's in this perspective that I think we have to face what we ask and what our firemen do. Therefore, this relationship that the State has to have with firefighters is to assign to them the public function that is incumbent upon the State and which is exercised by the bodies of professional firefighters or volunteers. This means that they are required to have a degree of professionalism that cannot be confused with their quality as volunteer firefighters in the exercise of their function. They are professional firemen who, on behalf of the State, act in the protection of the citizen. I believe that it is in this perspective that we should look at what is today the function of firefighters, particularly voluntary firefighters, inasmuch as this regime applies to humanitarian associations with firearms bodies and therefore I believe that it is in this perspective that we should look at their funding. Obviously, this regime that is brought to us by the government today densityes the criteria for the allocation of money, but does not shape what our Civil Protection Bases Act and our civil protection system impose, which is the appeal to municipal level. How does this reflect this law? It is reflected not only in the absence of the total responsibility of the municipalities, but also in the use of national risk cards, when municipal risk cards should be drawn up here to define the risk criteria. This is because the area of intervention is the area of intervention defined in the municipal risk and the result of this situation, although the merit of the proposal — which I do not withdraw — is easy: the Port district has no forest area, but they will have the weighting rate of 30% of the forest fires the two voluntary corporations as any corporation. Mr. Secretary of State is shaking his head. You'll have a chance to explain, of course. The Douro River has 200 000 tourists a year. I do not see in this bill any situation typified with regard to this situation. Well, if this were at the municipal level, surely the risk and the allocation of funds on the basis of risk... Mr. Secretary of State, on a scale of 1 / 250 000, you carry a needle in search of risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u239	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u240	This is a good opportunity to reflect on the response that the regime wants to give, but, above all, we must consider that the fireman, when leaving the barracks, leaves on behalf of the State, assuming a function of the State, and therefore the risk must be assessed and its financing must be assessed on the basis of the actual risk rather than the projected risk. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u242	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, Mr.a and Mr. Secretary of State: The Left Block greets all women and men of the firearm bodies of the humanitarian associations and all firemen who have this thorny mission to perform a public service indispensable to all of us and often little recognized. They do so - with a sense of altruism, of delivery, which is necessary here to recognize, to value - I know that we are at a time when we speak more about them and in them - fulfilling many functions that have already been recognised here. We would say that this bill is late, in fact, Mr. Secretary of State had already announced it in October 2014. We recognize that volunteer firefighters need a long-awaited and stable financing model and that there are multiple corporations in situations of rupture and despair, which is perfectly unacceptable. The League itself — and I welcome all the representatives present here — who have participated actively in the drafting of this proposal, recognizes that the proposal is an important step, but also acknowledges that it is short of expectations. Well, our concern is exactly that. Is the financing proposal enough? Is that enough? Is that an appropriate answer? Well, in our understanding, we need to hear more people, more entities, in recognition that the bill has relevant aspects. This proposal recognises the fundamental role of the firearm bodies of humanitarian associations in civil protection, as it was already enshrined in the cooperation programme itself; extends the provision of Ordinance No 76/2013, with the risk and performance indicators, which are now reinforced in the formula set out in Article 4. at the same time, there cannot be a forecast greater than 10 % of the budget — it is a matter of the proposed law — it also receives support from the State through infrastructure support programmes and equipment support, and it was good for us to know exactly what this means. It is a long-awaited bill, but it remains uncertain whether the correction that is tested in the paper corresponds to the requirements of the reality of each corporation, if the solutions will be fair to the recognized needs, particularly when one does not take into account, for example, an important fact, which is that of the high investments that many corporations have made. This aspect is not considered in this complex formula that, of course, we cannot explain here. from our point of view, in the evaluation and supervision plan, particularly by the National Civil Protection Authority, if they are well done, it is clear that this is a positive and relevant aspect. However, the greatest concern that remains is whether this financing model, which is expected by corporations, is the right answer to each situation. That's what we needed to be sure of. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u243	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u244	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: Mrs Cecilia Honorio has put the point exactly where it should be, namely whether this law is sufficient and adequate. This discussion is only possible because we have a bill on the table. So far, what was discussed was the following: "Will there ever be a law of funding for humanitarian associations with firearm bodies or will we continue in the discretion of an annual portal, with criteria that are far from transparent? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” On the other hand, this debate is allowed because the Government, by being able to legislate this matter by decree, has chosen to bring it to the Assembly of the Republic exactly to allow what Mrs Deputy said here: a broad debate, to listen to all the entities which Parliament understands well. The Government had the urge to initiate the legislative process, which it had been expecting for years, with regard to the financing law. The government does not intend to know everything about the solution. The Government has worked on this proposal with the Portuguese Bomber League, but it is perfectly available for issues that will be considered here and making amendments. The greatest heritage of this law, for the future, will be the greatest consensus that can be achieved in this Parliament, because so that Portuguese firefighters can benefit from a financing law that meets this objective of stability, it is essential to know that, from the point of view of the various political forces, there was the ability to generate a consensus in this solution which is approved here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u246	to Mr António Filipe, who raised an important issue, that of structural financing, I must say that he is listed in Article 6. the law proposal, either through the infrastructure support programme or through the equipment support program. Therefore, the bill has annual funding in current transfers, but it also has the forecast of structural funding through these two programmes. What has happened in recent years, as is public knowledge, is that these programmes have been replaced by applications for European funds which, of course, have allowed, and in a very relevant way, re-qualify and build new quarters, re-equipment at the level of cars, equipping at the level of individual protection, equipping at the level of communications. Therefore, fulfill exactly the objectives that you referred to here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u247	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u248	I will finish, Mr. President. Responding now to Mrs Isabel Oneto, I must say that the municipal pillar is not present because the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was not available for registration. The Government considered, for the first time, the possibility of making another leap, which, in the future, must be given from the central administration, to finance firefighter bodies in the municipalities, whether they are thieves or municipalities. And we would have been available for this if the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities was also available to engage with minimum funding to the humanitarian associations of its municipalities. With regard to the risk, Mrs Deputies, it is a question that can be perfectly discussed in the specialty and, if we find a better criterion, why not? We already have five that are transparent; if one of them we can fine-tune, even better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u249	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u250	I will finish, Mr. President. What I wanted to safeguard here is that, from the consensus generated in this Parliament, it will be possible not only to have a stable law, with transparent criteria, but also an increase of 12 % in the first year, to ensure that all humanitarian associations will receive more than what they received last year and the guarantee of stability in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u251	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u252	I think it is no longer little for a work that is in Parliament and not just the government, of course. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-27.u253	Mrs. Members, who have reached the end of the debate, in general, of Bill No 327 / XII ( 4. ( a ) I am grateful for the presence of members of the Government, hoping that they will comply with the Rules of Procedure in the future. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda of Question No 22 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On precarious employment ( BE). The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 1 minute.]]
