ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authority officers opening the galleries. As there is no record and, before we start our work, I recall that there are elections for five members of the Council of State, an effective member and an alternate member for the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic and a Deputy Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic to be held in Chamber D. Maria. Let us therefore start the session with a thematic debate under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, required by The Greens, on 21. The Climate Summit. To open the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and the Environment, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It spent about a week since the climate agreement established in Paris on 21. the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, achieved in Rio in 1992. The Greens took the initiative to schedule this debate in the Portuguese Parliament on the COP21 conclusions, because they believe that each country now has an obligation to assess the results of this agreement and to discuss ways and decisions that guarantee the reduction of greenhouse gases in order to prevent the increase in the average temperature of the planet. The climate agreement brought together 195 countries around the objective of achieving an increase in the average temperature of the planet in the 21st century not exceeding 2oC and preferably in the order of 1, 5oC. Here are two important factors, although immediately added to two non-suspecting weaknesses. First: all countries assumed that climate change is a problem on which action is needed to contain the anthropogenic causes of global warming, i.e. they recognized that action is needed, and the United States of America, the largest greenhouse gas emitter per capita, did not fall outside the agreement (as they had when they despised the Kyoto Protocol ). However, because of the great responsibility of the United States of America, the agreement assumed is not effectively binding, which makes it a declaration of intent and generates greater margin of manoeuvre for failures in its objectives. Second: the global goal of not increasing the average temperature of the planet was more ambitious than the 2oC. However, no goals, mechanisms, tools and conditions were established for the achievement of the objective and to know how it is reached, having only been expressed by countries to perform five years, only from 2025. The Greens therefore consider that the climate agreement involves weaknesses and a certain degree of minimalism, which makes it weaker, insufficient and even doubtful the guarantee of significant reversal of greenhouse gas increases, in order to halt global warming and its consequences as worrying as rising sea levels, the intensification of climate extremes, which can cause widespread destruction, increasingly severe for the poorest, because more unprotected, and generate waves of non-minorable refugees, as well as the weakening of water quality, the desertification of soils or the more accelerated loss of biodiversity, among many other effects already indicated, in particular, by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). The strategy resulting from the Paris climate agreement is to start the accelerated reductions of greenhouse gases to achieve a balance of emissions that are neutralized by sinks and other techniques for the capture and storage of carbon dioxide from the second half of the century. Neutralization is a verb which, with this agreement, threatens to replace the action to reduce emissions. But neutralizing does not guarantee a new development paradigm that ceases to sustain pollution and is now based on the courage of marginalizing polluting factors, such as fossil fuels. That is why it would be fundamental, even if progressively, that if you had taken the bold step to end the vast, perverse subsidies that are channeled to fossil fuels, the main ones responsible for greenhouse gas emissions. Having the courage to generate a new development paradigm, which does not have to take quality of life from people, but which has to be taken as an opportunity to generate better quality of life from more human beings, supporting the preservation of the most diverse forms of life on the planet, is a global imperative. But as long as the great economic power dictates the destinations of the world and world consumption and as long as the political power does not have the courage to strengthen sustainable energy alternatives and to get rid of the growing need for spent energy models, supported in fossil fuels, it will soon advance in the 21st century. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that this debate should also include measures and targets in Portugal and the Greens, in this initial intervention, leave questions here. We have concrete targets for 2030: 30% to 40% reduction. We ask: do we need to review these objectives and be more ambitious? We need to have a very concrete perspective on our head.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u4	I will finish, Mr. President. The reduction in emissions we have achieved in recent times has been largely due to an economic crisis and not to a paradigm shift in our development. It is therefore essential that in this debate we also address concrete measures and strategies with priority, in the view of the Greens, for encouraging energy efficiency and for a serious bet on transport, which are of the greatest CO2 emitters. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u5	We will now enter the stage of the debate. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting all those present in what is my first intervention before you and this House. There are honours that a normal man does not wait and this is one of them. The Paris agreement, which one day will be formally present at this House for ratification, is a milestone for our common future. The global warming of our planet and the catastrophic consequences that it may cause are no longer called into question by anyone informed and good faith. The Portuguese coast is one of the areas that feels the most, and will feel, the effects of climate change throughout Europe. In Paris, from a method different from the previous agreements and also from the failed attempts, 195 countries made a commitment based on their own proactiveity, that is, in the plans each, alone or in regional blocks, presented to the Conference. unlike Kyoto, which only involved developed or Copenhagen countries, which sought to reach all but based on rules dictated by these developed countries, Paris was a truly multilateral process. I will say that this way of action was the first key to success. on the eve of the Conference, the sum of national contributions already limited the global warming of the planet at the end of the 21st century to 2, 7oC, which would be 4, 5oC if no compromise existed. But this method so shared, in which all parties presented themselves with work done and equal legitimacy, heated the expectations of the Conference. After 15 days, these have been fulfilled. on the side of the European Union, a block within which Portugal was active negotiating party, the objectives were achieved. A fair, ambitious, binding agreement that limits 2°C the warming of the planet and that seeks to go even further, on the way of 1, 5°C. on a long course journey, it would be impossible to think that all decisions were made in Paris. I understand those who have often followed these matters with frustration for years and who have wanted to see a finished house leave Paris. I understand them, but I don't give them reason. The establishment of review mechanisms every five years, based on transparency criteria defined by the scientific community and with the obligation of each country being, every half decade, more ambitious, is the best way to integrate new knowledge, new technologies, new forms of management, which lead us, I am sure, to the goals proposed and assumed in the agreement. The targets that Portugal set were to reduce by 2030 the greenhouse gases contributing to the greenhouse effect between 30 % and 40 %. The state to which we have arrived no longer allows us only to believe that it will be only by betting on more demanding mitigation measures that we will be able to combat climate change. Unfortunately, it is no longer possible. We must adapt to the rise of seawater and the occurrence of extreme climate events. But, returning to Paris and to the relevant exercise of consensus and democracy on a global scale, a new negotiation paradigm was established, a new architecture for the fight against climate change was designed and the beginning of the end of the use of fossil fuels as a source of energy was decided. As at the end of the film Casablanca, «... we will always have Paris ». But this agreement is much more than « the beginning of a beautiful friendship». [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u7	11 were registered. Members to request clarification from the Minister, who informed the Bureau that he will respond from four to four. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u8	Mr President, Minister, I welcome you this first time that you come to the Assembly of the Republic, this plenary, to discuss a matter as relevant as this one we are discussing here. That is true of what the Minister says about adaptation. We already need to move forward in the logic of adapting to the phenomenon of climate change, but this adaptation can never serve as a pretext to forget the component of mitigation. I'm not saying that Mr. Minister has said it. I am stating what seems to me to be an obvious and necessary matter. This mitigation itself also means an opportunity to ensure better quality of life for people and more people, a logic and a new development paradigm, where we are aware that to develop we need not pollute. We have to find exactly the opposite logic: lower pollution means better quality of life and better logic of development. But, Mr Minister, precisely because of the logic of mitigation, we need to find effective measures to ensure that mitigation takes place and one of the sectors with greater responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions is certainly transport. However, with regard to the transport sector it seems that we have made an exact reverse path to what was essential to do: on the one hand, we have cut off on the railway, and on the other hand, we have made that in Portugal, particularly in urban areas, pendulum movements no longer rely on collective transport and are based on individual transport. in the early 1990s, this was not what happened. Let us reverse all logic in an absolutely negative sense. That is why we need to start talking about concrete measures. I will ask you two questions, but there are many others, of course, on which I would like you to speak. For example, a nonsense was committed by the previous government, which was to put an end to the passage for students and young people. however, this is very relevant because it is an incentive to use collective transport by young people too. If the new generation gets used to the use of collective transport, then it may not need to make a transfer of its mobility to individual transport. This is not only a social bet but also an environmental one. Another question: the former Government has made a disparity in withdrawing tax incentives for energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy equipment. Mr Minister, would it or would it not be worth having that regime again so that people who, for example, want to work and install equipment at home for better efficiency and energy saving just have incentives to do so? These are the concrete measures that will lead to us. Of two, one: we want to remain in the logic of abstract principles or we want to go to concrete and effective to achieve our objectives. [[Applause from The Greens, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u9	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u10	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, I begin by complimenting you on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, since this is your debut in Parliament, and wish you, of course, a good success in the area of the environment, for Portugal and for the Portuguese. in the course of more than 20 years since the Rio Conference, going through the Berlin Conference and the Kyoto Protocol until today, no results were obtained capable of reverse the cycle of increasing greenhouse gas emissions. The planetary clock is becoming implacable in its march and the signs of it become increasingly impossible to ignore. The cycles of drought and heat waves are much shorter and the escalation of negative impacts on health and economic development shows that there are not many opportunities left. COP21, in Paris, was of the greatest importance for combating climate change, although we do not know whether the measures taken to reduce global temperature warming are sufficient. But we know, yes, that the absence of an agreement would mean paying a much higher price in the future. The policy to combat climate change is based on three key pillars: in energy, whether on sources of production or on energy efficiency; in the planning of the territory, whether urban or forestry; and particularly in mobility and transport. In some of these areas of intervention, Portugal was a pioneer, occupying a prominent position in the world context. However, the report presented by environmental organisations today places Portugal in 19. the position of Climate Change Performance Index. That is, our country went down 10 positions in relation to the place it occupied last year. Mr Minister, what are the reasons for this sharp drop? We would also like to know what the development of Portugal in terms of climate change has been since the Portuguese State's ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u11	Mr Manuel Frexes has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u12	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, I greet you at the beginning of the parliamentary debate and we welcome the success of the Paris agreement. As Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, the former Government and, in particular, the Minister of Pasta, Dr. Jorge Moreira da Silva, made an excellent preparation for the Summit. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u13	The former Government has laid a strong stake in this area. Its action was remarkable and has developed ambitious, innovative and demanding reforms, notably: green taxation and bet on renewable energies, which, contrary to what has been said, increased its weight in electricity by 45 % in 2011 to 64 % in 2014 ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u15	... the expansion of the social electricity tariff and the dynamisation of electricity mobility; the cutting of EUR 4 billion in excessive energy income and the strengthening of European energy interconnections, among other initiatives. These reforms have not only produced visible results for all Portuguese, as internationally recognized by the leaders of the United Nations, the OECD, the World Bank and various world governments. We can proudly say that Portugal leads this area worldwide and that this was only possible because there was the courage to make structural reforms and the ambition to want to go further. I believe that the good results achieved categorically contradict all those who now say ill of the previous government out there, which is at least harmful and regrettable, because they objectively prejudice Portugal's image, reputation and credibility on the international scene. We have celebrated with civil society a true social pact: the Green Growth Commitment, which was signed last April by the Government and by a hundred organizations, namely the Quercus, the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ), the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal ), among other business institutions, NGOs (non-governmental organisations), foundations, academia and other scientific and environmental institutions. This document, which unfortunately the banks that now support the government did not wish to subscribe, establishes reforms, goals and concrete initiatives, which are already under way. Mr Minister, since we know the rhetoric of this government, more likely to review and revoke than to build and to act, we would like to know, and therefore ask, the following: Will the Government maintain or revoke the target of 40 % of renewables in final energy consumption and 80 % in electricity by 2030? Will it or will it not reduce energy consumption by 30 % and promote the reduction of water losses from 35 % to 20 %? Will it or will it not maintain the green tax reform, including the carbon rate and incentives for electric mobility? Will you or will you not continue to bet on the recovery of the coast, where have major investments been made in the last two years? Will you or will you not keep the bet on electrical interconnections after the historic agreement reached by the Portuguese Government in the European Union so that Portugal can become a renewable power exporter without charging the consumer? Mr Minister — and I shall finish — Portugal is today respected and admired for its action in this area, thus leading the world's green movements. It is important to know whether the Government, more specifically you, wants to keep Portugal in leadership by acting and building, rather than blocking or backing back. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u16	Mrs. Members, the Bureau, as is customary in these debates, although the time limit is 2 minutes for each request for clarification, since the overrun of this time is discounted in the party's overall time, it will not raise any problems when they exceed that time. That is why the Bureau did not draw attention to Mr Manuel Frexes, who spoke for more than 4 minutes. To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u17	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, register your care in assessing the results of Paris. In recent days, there has been no lack of anyone who wanted to confuse desires with reality, promises with results. If all governments fulfill what they promised in Paris — and nothing binds them to fulfill what they promised at the summit — global warming will be twice the initial objective proclaimed at the beginning of the COP21 process: instead of 1, 5oC or 2oC of increasing temperature, we will have at the end of this century more 3oC or 4oC, with catastrophic magnitude effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u19	You can't call this a success. That is why, against the spirit of Paris, I want to put some concrete questions to know the intentions of the government, not the good intentions, but the concrete projects. Mr Minister, the Government Programme recognises the problem of adaptation to climate change. It proposes — and because of its coastal condition Portugal is a country of risk — to review the national adaptation strategy, the definition of municipal and inter-municipal strategies, a charter of risks, more resilience of health equipment in the event of disasters and early warning and reaction systems. But there are certain areas of the country — Ovar, Esponend, Costa de Caparica, Ílhavo — in which these measures are short and late. The postponement of the beginning of a concrete process for the relocation of populations increases the risk for these populations. So, Minister, the first question I wanted to ask you is about adaptation policies. Knowing that today's inertia prevents a relocation of populations that can be done - quietly tomorrow, in an intermediate and participated manner - it must be underlined - not as an imposition but as a negotiated social process, as regards the task of relocation of populations and their preparation? Mr Minister, I am now addressing another issue. The current Coastal Working Group has already proposed investment in reducing coastal erosion through artificial sedimentary feeding. The issue of sediments is not a minor issue. Those who visit Furadouro, Caparica, Cova Gala or Pedrogão find that what puts communities at risk, as well as the fury of the sea, are political mistakes made on earth. It is not insisting on the construction of successive spores that solve the problems, it is allowing sediments and sand to be what they are, that is, the true protectors of coastal communities. In Portugal, there are more than 300 dams and mini-water dams. This absurd degrades the rivers, destroys the margins and prevents the arrival of sediments to the coast, contributing decisively to the erosion of the coast. The 60 dams along the Douro and its tributaries result in the loss of 90% of sediments. As a result, the supply of Douro sands to Nazaré is not made and the coast falls several meters every year. We have more than 70 dams above the age of 50 and a dozen more than a century and many no longer serve anything. Obsolete dams are often useless and even dangerous and should be demolished through a public programme for this purpose. What is the Government's priority in relation to a programme for the dismantling of obsolete dams? [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u20	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u21	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia and Mrs Mr Renato Sampaio, Manuel Frexes and Mr Jorge Costa, wanted to begin by saying that the Paris agreement is binding and the legal form that has been found, in relation to its linkage to a treaty and will therefore have to be ratified by this House, has been able to respect the wishes of several of 195 countries and, among them, as mentioned, the will of the United States of America. The form found was the one from which the President himself can be linked without having to go to the chambers, Congress and the U.S. Senate. The agreement is therefore binding. What I spoke about in the adaptation measures — Mrs Heloísa Apolónia referred to them, and very well — was not in any way to exclude the relevance of mitigation measures. It is most certainly through mitigating measures that we will reach our commitments. In fact, the concept of neutrality has been mentioned here, which is objectively in the agreement and therefore there is the possibility of carbon sinks, but this is a concept that Portugal will not use. That is to say, Portugal has proposed to achieve goals that are in a programme — certainly prepared by those who have taken responsibility before me — in which the reduction is based through mitigation measures. What I meant about adaptation measures is that the degree of fragility is already very large and it is not possible to think only about mitigation. Yeah, we have to think about adaptation. And we have to think about adaptation in two domains: on the one hand, on the coast, where objectively we must continue to fight for its physical integrity and, consequently, technological, with recharging of beaches, with an even more in-depth study of sedimentary transit, with the replacement of dunes. I would very much like to assume, before this House, that not one more spore will be made and, perhaps, even some may be disassembled, but this is a commitment which, of course, obliges us to make a deeper assessment than what we have at the moment. On the verbs that are being used, I will say that there is, above all, one that is worth counting: to decarbonize. That is our great bet on a route of Kyoto which is positive and in which the reduction of pollution by industrial sources is a well achieved case, but in fact diffuse emissions, particularly in transport and housing, has not been but will be a successful case in the nearest times. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u22	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the second group of requests for clarification. To that end, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to welcome the Greens Ecological Party for bringing the issue of climate change, following the Paris Conference, to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. In the face of the failure of the Copenhagen Summit in 2009, many qualified the agreement reached in COP21 as « historical ». We are interested in whether this is not just a rhetorical agreement. Moreover: some of the lines outlined are truly worrisome and must stimulate further reflection on this subject. From the outset, the most ambitious objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions cannot be found in the approved text. Although it has been widely proclaimed that a consensus has been reached to limit the rise of temperature below 2°C, the truth is that it has not been established how to distribute the limitations between countries, which in this way are free to establish their limits. However, if it is not clear how it is intended to achieve the greatest objective without setting the national objectives, especially given the previous experience of countries falling short of their goals or even increasing their emissions, Minister, there is an urgent need to answer a few questions. Firstly, what targets and deadlines will Portugal propose and what strategy will it adopt in terms of reducing emissions and increasing the negative balance of gases? Secondly, what support is planned for the development and use of alternative energies? Thirdly, what support for technology research, but also in terms of climate monitoring and its effects, is it being considered? The CFP considers that planning, identifying problems, defining new environmental policies and harmonising economic and human activity with nature are clearly contradictory to right-wing policies such as those which, in particular, the last PSD/CDS government imposed on the country over recent years. As long as the interests of large businesses and large economic groups, i.e. those who understand natural resources only as a form of profit-making and not as an essential asset to the sustainability of development and to respond to the social and economic needs of the people, there is no good hope for the great environmental challenges we face in the short and long term. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u24	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u25	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your first speech in this House and tell you that we will certainly all agree with the historic framework that represents the Paris agreement in the commitment to limit the rise of global temperature. Now, for this historic summit, Minister, Portugal has prepared itself very well and has presented itself at COP21 with much work done. from this work, I highlight the fact that we have successfully completed the first compliance period of the Kyoto Protocol by exceeding by 7 % the objectives, or the fact that we have ratified the amendment of the Kyoto Protocol for the period 2013 / 2020 and will be in line to meet the targets set for 2020, within the framework of the European Union, and the second fulfilment of the Kyoto Protocol. We also presented ourselves in Paris with established targets for reducing national emissions by 2030, total reductions from 30 % to 40 % compared to 2005, with a strategic climate policy framework on the horizon 2020 / 2030 and also with a national strategy for adapting to climate change 2020. As you well know, it was with a lot of naturality and even a lot of will that Portugal signed the Paris agreement, because we have been working for very ambitious goals for four years now, this work that put Portugal in 2014 and 2015 at the top 10 of the countries with the best performance in climate action, as the Climate Chance Performance Index says. But, Minister, the Paris agreement has set objectives, now they must be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u27	To date, the PSD/CDS Government has developed policies that would naturally lead to the achievement of the objectives reflected in the Paris agreement. The agreement was signed by Portugal with all its nature, but now with the new Government, I ask the Minister what measures you want to implement to meet the objectives of the Paris agreement and what will be the future climate and energy policy for Portugal in order to fulfil our responsibility and contribution to limit the rise of temperature to 1, 5oC? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u28	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u29	Mr President, Mr Minister, about a hundred and a half countries participated in the Climate Summit in Paris, which took place between 29 November and 11 December, which gave this meeting a particular importance to the context of global commitments which must contribute not only to mitigate damage but also and, above all, - I dare say - to ensure that there are situations that will not be repeated again and many others will be avoided. In Paris, the large number of countries that participated in the Climate Summit have made commitments that only make sense if they are to meet and their success can only be assessed on the basis of this. We all remember other times when we found that the good intentions were in the way and the tangible result of the commitments was really scarce. One example of what I have just said was the clear failure of the Kyoto Protocol by large powers to control and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Minister, being well-known to the concerns of you and the Government that integrates on climate issues in all its aspects, I would like to ask you a few questions. First, does Portugal feel comfortable with the Paris agreement and the commitments expressed in that protocol? Secondly, is it known that Portugal needs to take political measures and invest heavily in order to counter investment in our country in the face of these problems, and is it also known that countries in difficulty need a greater effort to combat the effects of climate change, what are Portugal's priorities in view of this agreement and its objectives? Thirdly, how do you view the possibility of strengthening Portugal's participation in the fund created to help the poorest countries, since not meeting the objectives in the short, medium and long term, will it mean facilitating the occurrence of more natural disasters that everyone is concerned about? [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u30	Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u31	Mr President, Minister, in this debate on climate nothing better than talking about what is happening in the Algarve. As is known, the former PSD / CDS Government, through the National Fuel Market Entity, granted prospecting and exploitation rights for hydrocarbons to various concessions along the coast of the Algarve, in particular to companies such as ENI, Repsol, Partex, and others, and recently also on land. Two large blocks granted : one, called Aljezur, and another, called Tavira, covering almost all the municipalities of the Algarve. in the oil industry, hydrocarbons are the largest source of pollution and produce very toxic gases, such as methane, 20 times higher than carbon dioxide. Mr Minister, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members, the situation is all the more serious as these techniques provide for the use of fracking, a technique of drilling and hydraulic fracture, which, in addition to causing contamination of brake sheets, can cause risks, seismic accidents. Therefore, air pollution, aquifer contamination, loss of biodiversity, higher seismic and environmental risks and degradation of human life are the mark of the failed energy model and it should not be happening, for example, in the Algarve. What is more curious is that all this process was conducted in secret by the previous Government, through the National Fuel Market Entity, without consultation with the autarchs and without consultation with the populations. In fact, at this moment we are watching a great movement in the Algarve, and recently motions were adopted in municipal assemblies, such as the Vila do Bispo, Portimão, Silves, Loulé. currently, there is a meeting at AMAL ( Algarve Municipal Association) in Faro, where there is a vigil against this technique of fracking and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Algarve. It seems that no environmental impact studies have been carried out, no assessment has been made of this situation in the lives of the populations and in the economic activities that mainly settle in tourism, aquaculture, fisheries and agriculture. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether, in view of this situation, this government will remain silent and deaf as the previous government or will stop this situation. On the other hand, I would like to ask whether the Government is aware of this fracking technique and will allow it to be used by dealers. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u32	To respond to this group of four requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by making a precision regarding the agreement. Having not left Paris a « finished house », what is required of each country and countries together is that every five years they make a review of their own ambition. What happens every five years is not the monitoring of what is happening. It is certainly also a follow-up, with transparency mechanisms, which are equal for all — and this was a matter discussed to the end — but, in particular, what is intended is that there is a review, I repeat, of the point of departure that each country has established. And, yes, Portugal is comfortable with this agreement. Portugal is comfortable with this agreement, especially now that it initiates the definition of a clear policy for the reduction of greenhouse gases produced in cities. We know that these gases come, above all, from transport, but also from the lack of energy efficiency of buildings, particularly housing. If I do not stop referring to the last two years—and I have even understood Mr Manuel Frexes' words when he was very well in the last two years—it is because these were the years when the Ministry of the Environment of the former Government was not irrelevant, because in previous years it was irrelevant, objectively irrelevant. I would not be as optimistic as they were with the policies of recent years. It is true that there is more electricity produced by renewable sources, and we are satisfied with this. However, in the report quoted, with data from 2013, Portugal fell by 9. or to 19. the place. And this happens for a set of numerical and other reasons, which are grounds for tendency. One of the reasons why it is very important not to waste or not to exclude this debate is that Portugal has begun to make a smaller investment in the use of renewable energy. That is why, of course, what is in the report. We can even discuss it, but of course what is in the report. They are not just objective values, they are indeed trends too. Now one of the reasons why Portugal was also poorly classified was that at the time of the report it had already been drawn up when this Government took over, contributed to the Green Fund, to support the least developed countries, with EUR 2 million, within a very long period of time. But, yes, Portugal is available to go beyond that support and it already has a tradition, which of course has not begun before us, to support the CPLP countries, particularly the countries in Africa and Timor-Leste, in the construction of their own national programmes to combat climate change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the last group of requests for clarification. To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u35	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, there is an issue on the part of the CFP that, although it has already been put, we would like to resume in this debate and that has to do with one of the strongest factors in our country, in our economy, in relation to greenhouse gas emissions which is the transport sector. It is a fundamental issue for us, and it should be for all to promote the use of public transport as a crucial factor in these strategies, at least in the context of our country. But the truth is, over the past few years, we have had a brutal retreat in our country, an attack on mobility and collective transport. With the PSD Government / CDS-PP the central objective, dir-CL- would-be unique, was to transform public services into private businesses and therefore everything was done for the delivery of public transport in the metropolitan areas, where the weight of this sector, economic groups and its interests is most relevant. Therefore, it does not admire the reduction of 24 %, 32 %, or even worse, in the number of passengers per kilometer transported in four years. It was the cut in careers and services, which only the struggle of the populations made it possible to prevent it from being as far as the former Government wanted, but had very serious effects on mobility. It was the brutal increase in transport prices, in which it stands out, and already mentioned, the aggravating withdrawal of student discount passes — the famous steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23 — and also for reformers, for the overwhelming majority of those who had access to these discounts, i.e., the pass for students, young people and reformers disappeared. It was the irresponsible blockade and asphyxiation, not to say worse, in relation to the ability of companies to respond, either in the lack of maintenance of fleets and equipment, or in the alienation of means and equipment — see the Tanstejo and Soflusa ships — whether in the enormous shortage of personnel that is felt in these companies. All of this has been done on behalf of the debt of companies in the sector which, over these four years, has increased from EUR 17 000 to EUR 20 000 million; therefore, we are worse in all indicators. Now, in this area, if the Minister wishes to decarbonise, there are urgent measures that have to be taken and there are concrete answers that are necessary and the first of all, which is already pointed out by this House, is to put an end to this disaster policy that the PSD/CDS-PP government was imposing with the delivery of the sector to private interests, in particular here, in the AML ( Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, with the famous fusion of Carris, Metropolitan, Transtejo and Soflusa. It is of the utmost importance to end once again the line of confrontation, attack and provocation against workers, which marked the previous government and the administrations appointed by it, because we cannot have companies with disciplinary and repressive processes to mark the day-to-day. It is imperative to print a strategy of rupture with this disaster policy that was being followed in public transport. It is necessary to return public service to populations, return links, services and careers to users. It is necessary to strengthen the capacity to respond to these companies and, from the outset, in relation to concrete issues such as the attractiveness of public transport, it is necessary to strengthen the central issue of tariff policy, incentives for young people, students, discounts, which should, in fact, be recognised and allocated to young people and also to pensioners, pensioners and elderly people, who had that right and who should again have that right. Therefore, Minister, there must be a word from the Government in this debate on these points. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u36	Mr Luís Vilhena has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u37	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, we know that climate change issues have a number of factors and that we should contribute individually and collectively to the correction of climate change. However, the causes that have caused climate change in an accelerated manner in recent decades cannot always be controlled, because they have a global origin and their control is often not within our reach as a country. But there are some issues in which we can have more control and these are the planning of the territory, the way we rehabilitate and build our cities, their energy efficiency and also mobility systems. It is true that, in general, political discourse deals much more with social and economic issues, because in some way they are more immediate issues, however the third vector of sustainable development, the environment, which is often pre-established, has long-term effects with very significant and perennial repercussions in a country and on the quality of life of citizens. While the economy and social affairs can be changed from one moment to the next, the issues related to the planning of the territory, the environment and the development of cities have consequences in the future that can take decades to correct, whether the wrong measures are taken or whether the importance they have for the quality of life of the citizens is ignored. I believe, however, that we are on the right track today and so much so that the PS Programme gives a relevant emphasis to urban regeneration, also setting priorities for the rehabilitation of buildings and the energy efficiency of buildings. However, there is one question I would like to ask, on which I have less information, but it seems equally relevant to me. I would like to know whether the Government has a particularly defined strategy with regard to green mobility for increasing use of electric vehicles, especially in the urban context, given that this has implications for air quality, noise pollution and the reduction of carbon emissions. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u38	For one last request for clarification, there were three in this last group, Mr José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u39	Mr President, first of all, this is the first intervention I make in plenary, and I would like to greet the ladies and gentlemen. Members and in particular the President of the Assembly of the Republic, wishing all a good mandate and greater happiness. Mr Environment, one of the great value of the Portuguese territory is the extension of its coastline, as well as the various uses and opportunities that the same power can afford. in the past, the PS governments have invested much in the requalification and environmental valorization of our coastline, particularly through the Polis Programme, creating conditions of experience and high quality enjoyment. I therefore ask you, Minister: will the requalification, defence and protection of coastal and coastal areas be a priority of the Government? This is because there is still much to be done, particularly on the northern coast. However, one of the biggest problems is the growing erosion of the coastal zone and the consequent decline of the coast line. It is known that climate change will lead to a rise in the average seawater level, affecting the stability and integrity of the coastal shoreline. It is known that Portugal will be one of the countries that will suffer most from this climate change scenario, being coastal erosion a problem that is already very worrying and that much has cost the populations that live there with relevant costs for the public record. I therefore ask the Minister : how does the Government think to address this problem, either in the context of mitigation or in the adaptation measures to which we are bound by the Paris Agreement? [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u40	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions put, and I should like to say that it is in fact the mobility of big cities that can achieve great gains. I begin by saying two sentences, which I will later frame, being the first of them that « we like our companies ». I say more, I don't know, and I've worked almost all my life in public and private companies, no company that has good managers and bad workers. I don't know! I've never seen it! Therefore, we even want to look at our companies as companies that have to do a better service, and a better service is certainly a service with a higher offer, with an offer as close as possible to the search, knowing that collective transport is different from individual transport, and clearly betting on soft mobility, something that seemed to be an ethereal idea but that has become very important, and revealing-CL will become more and more important the greater the margin of progression of Portugal, on the one hand, and the more our cities are dense cities, on the other. Dense cities are those where, in fact, bet on urban rehabilitation and not on the expansion of construction areas and are certainly cities much more suitable for soft mobility and also for the possibility of common use of collective transport. With regard to the good preparation of the Paris Summit, which was mentioned here, and precisely by whom it was prepared, I read one of the phrases which Portugal sent in the context of our national contribution, which, with regard to passenger transport, says: « Effective incorporation and enhancement of environmental and low-carbon performance criteria in competitions for public passenger service concessions ». As I agree with this sentence. I repeat, as I agree with this sentence. That is, I am not talking about concessions, I am objectively talking about whether they are being made, including environmental and low-carbon criteria in these competitions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u42	It wasn't the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u43	Now, we know that what has been done was not strictly none of this; what has been done was the attempt to attribute these same concessions, which, as you know, will not go forward, on the basis of the financial criterion alone, of those who pay less. That is why the Paris Summit has been very well prepared and, objectively, many things have not been done, and it is important to do so in the near future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u44	For an intervention, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u45	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Much of the future that we will have as civilization was under discussion in 21. the Climate Summit, which took place in Paris until the last Saturday. This summit aimed at obtaining an international agreement that kept the global temperature rising below 2°C until the end of the century. thus, the scenarios that presented themselves as more credible passed through voluntary emission cuts, continuation of flexibility mechanisms and proposals of new market mechanisms for the pollution and emissions trading between developed and developing countries. Before the Paris Summit, the various countries represented were asked to submit their voluntary proposals for emission cuts. The 195 States submitted only 119 proposals, and the European Union certainly submitted the proposals of its 28 members as only one. in these proposals, the European Union has voluntarily committed itself to cutting 40 % of its emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. The United States committed itself to a cut between 26 % and 28 % by 2025, in respect of the 2005 emissions. And China has committed itself to reaching its peak of emissions by 2030, starting later to reduce. Considering that these three powers are responsible for 45 % of global greenhouse gas emissions, the assumption of these voluntary commitments has, of course, taken great importance, since, to be fulfilled, they ensure more than twice the emissions necessary to contain the expected maximum increase of 2°C, up to 2100. thus, the central issues of the Paris negotiations, which could initially compromise any agreement, were thus linked to the assumption of voluntary or binding commitments, with the existence of emission trading mechanisms and with the financing of climate adaptation and mitigation policies in the least developed countries. The truth is that it was no longer possible to postpone the decision to ensure greenhouse gas emissions cuts, which threaten agricultural and forestry systems and promote the increase of temperature to incomportable levels, with severe consequences for the most vulnerable parts of the globe, where Portugal is also included. And here they allow me to have a parenthesis, to leave to the population of the Azores, which has been hit by this week's severe temporals, a hug and a vote of solidarity with them, which have, in particular, had a fatal victim as a result of these temporals. Turning to our topic, the PSD Parliamentary Group and I myself consider the agreement reached in Paris extremely important. I would therefore like to highlight the aspects which, in our view, represent real progress made at the summit. First of all, the pursuit of efforts to limit the increase in temperature to 1, 5oC of pre-industrial levels, which means taking a more ambitious objective than was previously set. Secondly, the path to neutral CO2 emissions, accepted by all, although unfortunately not a precise date has been set. Thirdly, the presentation, every five years, of national plans with clear objectives for climate change mitigation. Finally, the commitment of the developed countries to continue financing the developing nations by $100 million will be strengthened by 2025. The above questions allow us to conclude that the Paris Agreement has been positive, ambitious, transparent and inclusive and is, as we all know and has already mentioned, in line with the route taken by Portugal in recent years. We sincerely hope that this journey will continue in the present and in the future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our country integrates the group of more progressive and more ambitious states with regard to climate mitigation and commitment to strengthening renewable energies, as well as the definition of more ambitious targets to curb the increase in global temperature. It is fair to note that the former PSD/CDS-PP Government was a government with a very strong reformist brand and that this reforming capacity was also shown in the environmental area. In this regard, it is important to frame the approach taken in this area and to remember that Portugal has already adopted measures and targets to combat climate change, particularly through the new Strategic Framework for Climate Policy, presented last June. The Green Growth Commitment ( VCC ), an integral part of this strategy, is a social contract for sustainable development, subscribed by the Government and by about 100 public and private civil society entities, which provides for: reducing CO2 emissions by 30 % to 40 %, up to 2030, compared to 2005 levels ; reaching 40 % by 2030 of renewables in final energy consumption and 80 % in electricity; reducing energy consumption in GDP by 1, 4 % per year and water losses by 35 % to 20 % by 2030 ; increasing the use of public transport by 2 % per year ; increasing electricity interconnections by 10 % by 2020, and 15 % by 2030. the Green Growth Commitment are also objectives: the increase in green GDP by 5 % per year, exports in the green sectors, also by 5 % per year and the duplication of green employment by 2030 ( with an annual increase of 4 % ). As regards emissions reduction and climate change adaptation policies, Portugal is one of the countries under the greatest threat, especially in water resources and on the coast, it is also one of the countries most likely to benefit from emission reduction and low-carbon technology policies in GDP and employment. Already at the previous Lima Summit, as at COP21, Paris, Portugal participated with the authority of whom it contributed effectively for the European Union to achieve a package for climate and energy by 2030, which set targets for CO2 emissions, set targets for renewables and energy efficiency and led the initiative and demand of the quantified definition for energy interconnections. in this opportunity, I emphasize that Portugal, according to the Global Performance Index in the Energy Area 2015, of the World Economic Forum, occupies 10. the position, as well as the fact that our country is in 2015 among the five countries with better performance in combating climate change, is 4. the CO2 emissions associated with energy production and energy sustainability, and the 5. in terms of primary energy intensity and energy efficiency, according to the Sustainable Development Index of the Bertelsmann Foundation. in the same way, Portugal was also recognized in 2014 as one of the best-performance countries with regard to adaptation and mitigation of climate change, by Climate Change Performance Index. It should be remembered that this international recognition has been based on the policy developed in recent years and is due to the fact that Portugal has installed a record value of renewable power over the last three years and consequently the energy dependence on the outside has reached the lowest value of the last two decades. It is also due to the fact that the Government has wagered in the area of energy and consolidated the bet on energy efficiency and electric mobility, as was the approval of the energy self-consumption regime. It is also due to the approval of the scheme which enables and promotes the loading of electric vehicles at home and at work, in addition to the public network, in which the competition rule has been enforced. On the other hand, the approval of the green tax reform, which for the first time addressed cross-cutting all sectors and resources, penalizing those who pollute and degrade, on the other hand because of the deterioration of family income tax, was a very important instrument in the implementation of environmental policy in Portugal. Finally, let me stress the strengthening of electricity interconnections in the European Union ( 10 % as an objective in 2020 and 15 % in 2030 ), agreed in the European context, following the efforts made by the Portuguese Government to promote renewable energy and to reduce costs. This effort should not be limited to the European context and we should also explore all possibilities of interconnection between the European Union and North Africa. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can therefore say that Portugal has wagered in the transition to a low-carbon economy, based on a cost-efficient strategy of green growth, enabling gains to the environment and to energy consumers, in line with the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u46	Mrs. Deputy, you've far exceeded the time you had. Would you like to conclude, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u47	I'm done now, Madam President. in this sense, Portugal did not make economic and financial constraints a pretext for delaying, titubing or timing, on the contrary, made the difficulty an additional reason for taking a proactive, reformer and leader position, the result of which was visible in the agreement reached in Paris in combating climate change. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u48	Mrs Berta Cabral has an application for clarification from the Greens Ecological Party but does not have time to answer. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, in any case, would you like to ask the question?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u49	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u50	So you have the floor, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u51	Madam President, Mrs Berta Cabral does not have time, but it is certainly recorded and, on another occasion, the PSD can answer the questions I want to ask. Mrs Berta Cabral, in fact, the Paris Summit was good, but it could have been better, we could have gone further because the subsidies for fossil fuels will continue, the national commitments already presented will not be subject to any revision before 2020 and concrete targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions were not established, leaving each country the availability to take them from 2020. So the summit was a step forward, but it could have been better. The honourable Member says that it is no longer possible to postpone the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, and we agree. He even referred to the Azores case and also said that the previous government had made a reformist deal in this matter. Mr Member, I do not know whether or not you are aware that the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in recent years is due to the economic crisis that the country has experienced and that the PSD/CDS government has in some way also been feeding. In other words, it has more to do with this economic crisis and less with a sustainable reduction strategy. However, Mrs Deputy, I would like you to tell me what the contribution of some measures of the previous PSD/CDS Government, namely the privatization of the public passenger transport service in Lisbon and Porto, and I am talking about the attempt to privatize the Metropolitan of Lisbon, Carris, STCP, and also the Metro of Porto. I would also like you to tell us what other measures the previous Government has taken to combat greenhouse gas emissions, such as the elimination of incentives for the installation of renewable energy equipment and also at the end of steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23, for young people, which has been a further push for the use of private transport to the detriment of public transport. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u52	Mr President, as I said, there is no answer. For an intervention, Mr Jorge Duarte Costa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for the Environment: It was our first meeting in this House, the first of many, I hope, and we will not fail to ask you again questions about coastal erosion, the relocation of populations, the dismantling of obsolete dams, oil concessions and fracking in the Algarve, which you have not answered in your previous interventions. in this debate, we again heard the triumphalist references on the conclusions of Paris which I referred to in my first intervention. Let us be wary of this triumphalism! We seek the interests that would have been so damaged, if the Paris conclusions were thus binding and thus transformative of the landscape, in terms of emissions and climate change. Where are these major damaged interests, the large oil tankers, condemned to define and perish, before the redeeming force of the transformations of the Paris Agreement? Oh, my God! Did anyone hear your protests? No, the large multinational oil tankers have no reason to protest. As I said in my first speech, if all governments fulfilled what they promised in Paris, and nothing in the Agreement obliges them, global warming would double the starting target of the Summit. By 2030 all governments are expected to comply with what they promised in Paris, and nothing in the Agreement obliges them to increase emissions to 7% per year. What does the Agreement say? The peak of emissions must be reached as soon as possible! Target for the annual emission reduction rate? None! Funds? They were spoken here for the adaptation of the most vulnerable countries, an ancient promise of the 2009 COP, now resumed, in the same terms, and nothing prevents these funds from being applied in wrong and dangerous solutions, such as carbon capture and kidnapping, such as geoengineering, instead of a coherent strategy for the abandonment and replacement of fossil fuels. The Agreement insists, Mr Minister, on the failed compensation and on the wrong strategy of carbon neutrality, and that is your mark. It is true that the negationist discourse of global warming, which has so far been the central strategy of the fossil fuels multinationals, has been abandoned. It is old, it no longer works and therefore the idea of denial of scientific evidence of global warming is doctrine that has disappeared, and in good time. But in order to confront the global consciousness and the mobilization of people and activists, in the various countries, the Paris strategy has become, recognizing the problem, simply saying that it intends to solve it. The fossil fuel giants have fulfilled their agenda in Paris: they have reached a long-term agreement without scheduled targets; national plans that are assessed for the first time only within 10 years, as Mr Minister mentioned here; carbon markets, instead of decarbonisation; no constraints on maritime and air transport, which is responsible for 2 to 4 % of greenhouse gas emissions. For Portugal, the balance sheet of COP21 is a huge inconsistencies and a huge inconsistencies, and to respond by one of the peoples who can be most affected by the catastrophic consequences of global warming, which is the obligation of the Portuguese Government and our obligation, as representatives of the people, we must put on the table, in the matter of climate change, two main topics, being one of our foreign policy. And in that regard, the priority should be precisely the reopening of the climate issue, in the international scene, which remains an open and unresolved issue after the Paris Summit. Secondly, we must do our part, regardless of the limitations of the objectives now set out in COP21. We must do our part in agriculture and the transformation of agricultural production, urban rehabilitation, energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, productive conversion and economic decarbonization. He did not lack, as I said, anyone who wished for reality, at the end of the summit. But there is also a global movement for climate justice, which accepts no less than concrete commitments and results to avoid the environmental collapse that promises us the global capitalism that leads us in this process. Our great ally, as a country and as a geographical area especially vulnerable to climate change, is therefore this movement of global climate justice, which, in dark terms, like those in which the Paris Summit took place...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u54	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u55	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, our great ally is this global climate justice movement, one of the most auspicious signs of a Humanity that has not given up on itself and its future on this planet. [[Congratulations on the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u56	The Bureau does not have requests for clarification, so we will proceed, but before giving the next speaker the floor, I would like to remind you, on behalf of the Bureau, that the elections are taking place in Conference Room D. Maria. I appeal to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, so that you don't forget to go to vote. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, we all know the consequences of climate change and we are all aware of the threat this phenomenon poses to the planet and to humanity. But we also know the reasons and causes of this serious problem. As in other areas, here too, there is only one way to avoid the consequences, and that is the way to fight the causes that cause them. Without a strong and urgent fan, in order to eliminate the causes, and in view of what is known as its effects, we can, without great effort, foresee the worst for the future — for the future of the planet and for the future of humanity. Serious measures are therefore needed to combat the causes. And when we talk about the causes of climate change, we talk, above all, about the development model that has guided the fates of mankind and of the planet. What is at stake, when we talk about the causes, is the development model based on the exploitation of fossil energies, on the unbridled and irrational race of productiveism, but also, and not least, on inequalities among peoples. It is this development model that is at stake and this development model that is urgently equating. This week, the United Nations Development Programme has released a report that shows us once again that the vulnerability of communities to climate change is increasingly evident, with about 1300 million people living in fragile lands and many other millions suffering the consequences of natural disasters or, better, natural disasters. The same report confirms that climate change associated with an average increase in global temperature has led to changes in precipitation patterns, increased water levels and increased frequency of extreme climate events. Nothing, unfortunately, we didn't know now! Still, it is another call for urgent action. It was also what was expected of the Paris Conference: to make the right choices, to make the best choices for the planet. After 20 years of negotiations, with absolutely long impasses, we now have a document that outlines a common path to preventing global warming. We can be in front of a long walk—it's true! — but the obstacles will certainly be many. The Agreement has the merit of setting goals, of setting a path and of involving all countries for the first time — it is true! — but it was unable to set concrete targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, leaving each country the availability to announce them from 2020 onwards. We can be faced with the beginning of a new era in the fight against climate change, since the document establishes the obligation to review every five years the targets for reducing emissions from countries — that is true! — but by 2020, greenhouse gas emissions will continue to increase, which certainly has rested the oil, because at least for now this Agreement does not represent any problem. In any case, it was an important conference, not only because it recognized the importance of limiting the temperature of the planet, but also because it set the noble goal of eliminating emissions in the second half of the century. Now it is up to the states to do their homework. The European Union will, in particular, have to re-adapt its objectives with regard to climate policy for 2030 and be more ambitious in terms of reducing emissions, which should also be taken over by the next Council in March. As regards our country, in particular, it will have to review the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, of making a firm and serious commitment to renewable energies; and of changing the paradigm, with regard to transport policy, by investing seriously in public transport and, above all, on rail — a mobility policy that is capable of transforming public transport into a real alternative to the use of private cars. And, in this context, it takes particular note of the set of steps, which are now being taken, in order to reverse the process of privatization of public passenger transport service in Lisbon and Porto, and the wager that is intended to be made for the railway. But it is still necessary to do so much more. In particular, it is necessary to correct the errors of the previous PSD/CDS government, which represented real setbacks in combating climate change and global warming. We are talking, for example, about the elimination of incentives for the installation of renewable energy equipment, but we could also talk about steps 4 /NP 18 and sub23, which were intended for young people, and which this Government has eliminated, thus further giving a strong push for the use of the particular car, to the detriment of the use of public transport, exactly contrary to what any sustainable transport policy recommends. So there's a lot to do. from the Greens, we will be careful to remind the Government of the need to halt this phenomenon of climate change and global warming, but we will also be, of course, available to give green light to any proposal that is coming to strengthen this fight. [[Applause from The Greens, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u58	The Bureau shall not record requests for clarification from the speaker. For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming the opportunity to discuss in this House today, and in a plenary session exclusively dedicated, the future challenges that climate change poses to us and the results achieved in 21. The Climate Summit. The Paris Agreement is recognised as a historic framework since the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted in 1992, even for those who consider that much further progress could have been made. And it was a historic milestone because for the first time, a set of 195 countries committed to the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve zero emissions or at least a zero balance, with the ultimate aim of trying to contain the rise in the temperature of the planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u61	This agreement also has the merit of sitting at the same table, around the same objective, developed and developing countries. To realize its historical importance means to revisit the past a little and to remember, on the one hand, the Kyoto Protocol, which was the first international agreement which imposed reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and which only linked developed countries, and on the other hand, the years of negotiations and hesitations that brought us here. Since 2007 the attempt has been unsuccessful to negotiate a new agreement that compromises all countries and not only developed ones. This Paris Agreement is thus the culmination of years of negotiations where the main differences between developed and developing countries have been overcome. And, in this respect, it can be said that, in addition to a historic commitment, we are faced with a universal, just and ambitious agreement. It is a universal agreement because it was adopted by 195 countries, including the whole European Union. It is a fair agreement, because it takes into account the differentiated responsibilities of countries and their respective capacities, requiring more of the developed countries and ensuring funding of $100 billion per year by 2020 to the poorest countries for their mitigation and adaptation policies. It is also an ambitious agreement because it has been able to define as objective the limit of the average temperature increase well below 2. oC, a value recognized as critical by the entire scientific community, and also that the measures implemented are evaluated every five years to avoid deviations from the objectives outlined.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u63	The countries are therefore obliged to establish their commitments, although they have not defined when, and to define a path that will enable them to achieve, as soon as possible, the desirable carbon neutrality, i.e. to balance greenhouse gas emissions with their removal through sewers. And Portugal has very good examples here. on the side of emissions, more specifically, of its reduction, we give letters in renewable energy and we have room to improve more, even more, our performance either in solar energy (and here it should be remembered that Portugal is the country of Europe with more hours of sun) either in the development of new technologies to explore the energy of waves. on the side of the carbon sink, I highlight the importance of our forest. Two thirds of our territory is forest, but we can and should significantly improve the productivity of our forest, ensuring greater carbon retention and more raw material, which is so necessary to industry, and which allows to add value to our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u65	It is also not to neglect other measures, such as soil conservation techniques that improve organic matter levels, as we know, and therefore retain carbon. with regard to the accounting of the sumidouro, Portugal has defended in the European Union the strengthening of this possibility for future negotiations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can ensure that the Paris Agreement marked the end of the fossil fuel age for the second half of this century and the path towards a green, hypocarbonic and circular economy, in which renewable energy and energy efficiency play a significant role. in this matter, Portugal is on the front line, which is internationally recognized, occupying the best places in several rankings that assess the performance of countries in combating climate change. I highlight the index of the Bertelsmann Foundation that places Portugal in 5. the place regarding climate policies and the classification of the World Economic Forum that has placed us recently, also in 10. the place in relation to global energy policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u67	In fact, Portugal, with the former Government, led the process of discussing the new European Climate-Energy package for 2030 and approved the commitment to green growth, in which nearly a hundred national entities from all sectors of society participated around 14 objectives and which constitutes the basis for sustainable development. This agreement is therefore an opportunity that the country should not waste on the potential for innovation and investment in clean technologies, taking advantage of synergies with the expected ability of both national and international investors. The mission of each of us, as actors of civil society, companies, organizations, scientific or academic community, is to defend a more sustainable, cost-effective and cost-effective economic model, promoting new patterns of consumption and production and to exercise the desirable surveillance of the policies taken by States, which we will pay close attention to our government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u68	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment, Citizens and Citizens : The agreement reached in Paris is another fiasco. from this stage of manifest intentions and insufficient binding commitments it is clear that they are the financial interests that dictate the rules, keeping immersed in a sea of blindness allowed the world decision makers. Dinheiroversus future of humanity — the first one kept precedence. It has been known for some time that not the transport or energy sectors are the main responsible for greenhouse gas emissions, but rather the livestock activity, which takes 51 % of the contribution of emissions. We find ourselves in total denial, from closed eyes to the obvious. Discussing the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions without talking about the contribution of animal production is the same as trying to find solutions to prevent lung cancer without speaking about the effects of tobacco. Mr. Minister of the Environment, Mr. João Fernandes, I do not have time to discuss this with you. That is not really possible to me, but we will have other opportunities. But, and finally, I would like to present a challenge to you, for which I am grateful now for all your care. I call on the Minister to invest an hour and a half in the vision of an environmental documentary I have here with me — Cowspiracy — and to request the services from now on, with the permission of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, to bring it to you. This is a documentary that dares to talk about what many do not want to talk about, but that will inevitably be at the heart of the global political debate within a short time. This documentary has already been seen this month in the European Parliament and in the Italian Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u70	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, in this debate and for the CFP, issues related to planning and planning of the territory, coastal erosion and coastline, desertification and urban concentration are issues that deserve our particular attention. The truth is that in the last four years, following the policy options of the PSD Government and the CDS-PP, there has not been an effective policy for the preservation of natural resources and biodiversity. There was no effective policy to combat deep causes that provoke and accelerate coastal erosion, nor was there an effective policy to protect people and goods. However, the existing plans many of them were not implemented or, then, were not effective. Moreover, the former Government, the PSD and the CDS-PP, in this matter has limited itself to artificial coastal feeding, which is a necessary measure but which alone does not solve the deepest problems on which it is important to intervene. in the last four years, there has also been no effective policy of planning the territory that was against national interests, that would safeguard our resources and protect our populations. instead, PSD and CDS-PP were more interested in adopting policies that favored private interests. There was also no effective policy to eliminate regional asymmetries and to combat desertification. Although these concerns have often been referred to by the PSD and the CDS-PP, the truth is that the speech has not adapted to reality. And the reality of what has shown is that, following exactly the policies of the PSD and the CDS-PP in recent years, regional asymmetries, depopulation and urban concentration have been emphasized with the consequences we know of the living conditions of the populations, but also in the absence of planning and planning of our territory. For the CFP, as I mentioned at the outset, these are questions that deserve an answer. These are issues that must also be on the agenda, and obviously there must be a policy that, at the same time, meets the interests of the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President. There must therefore be a policy that meets the people, which improves their living conditions, but at the same time contributes in fact with concrete measures and not with rhetoric for the resolution of these problems related to the coast and the planning of the territory. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform the House that they are present in the gallery of the diplomatic corps four Mrs. Members of the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique, Lucília Note Hama, Manteigas Gabriel, Helder Injojo and Isac Mandava, who are visiting the Assembly of the Republic and who take advantage of it to greet. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the end of the debate. First of all, for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u75	Mr President, I will not go up to the rostrum to make this speech because I would like to speak to the Minister of the Environment and from here I see it better. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was very important to make this debate to see where we will be able to converge in this matter of combating climate change and adapting to climate change, because now a new stage begins and new challenges arise from here to the front, and also to see what reading is something different that many of us do about the success or not of the Paris Summit on Climate. I would like to address the Minister for the following: this is the first time that the Minister is being confronted by the Greens in the Assembly of the Republic and probably from here forward will be used to the frontality and frankness that this Parliamentary Group has. That is because I was not satisfied with the answers that Mr Minister gave during the debate. Mr Minister, we are going to have to create new spaces to stir this up. In good rigour, time was not enough for the subject to be heard, but we are probably going to have to do it in a more focused way in committee. And, Mr Minister, I reiterate this concern: the previous Government has made some nonsense about some concrete measures on which we consider it important to reflect again and, eventually, to put them back in the context of the availability of Portuguese. I am speaking in particular about urban transport, in particular about social passes directed at young people, to encourage them to use collective transport. This brings serious benefits to the future. On the other hand, I am also talking about the issue of tax incentives for investment in equipment that promote energy efficiency, which were eradicated by the previous Government. It is essential that we discuss this matter again. Mr Minister, these are concrete measures that can also bring us greater success in mitigating climate change. We need, in fact, a new paradigm of mobility. Mr. Minister spoke about soft mobility. I believe that serious and credible steps have been taken in the previous legislation on this subject, in particular with the amendment to the Road Code. Do you need more to encourage? It is! And we must make an effort to further encourage soft mobility! But, Minister, a new mobility paradigm is not done as the previous government decided to do, that is, by giving an incentive to purchase electric cars, when we know that the Portuguese general doesn't have any money to buy electric cars! And it is not this incentive to buy electric cars that will establish in Portugal, in our cities, a new paradigm of mobility. A new mobility paradigm passes, necessarily and objectively, by betting on collective transport, for learning to use collective transport in our pendulum mobility. What we know is that many localities around, for example, Lisbon, have a sort of 'compulsory collection' from a certain time, Mr Minister, which is from, for example, dinner time! From that time on there is no longer any way to use a collective transport to certain areas at very few kilometres from the centre of Lisbon! This is unacceptable! We must therefore make a reflection on the offer of collective transport, on schedules and tariffs. For many families with two or three elements it goes cheaper to use, in pendulum movements, the private car than to use collective transport. So we shouldn't reflect on this? Is that how we're encouraging people and families in search of collective transport? Intermodality is another matter on which we must of course reflect. With regard to rail, a less polluting means of transport, we must leave the logic of closing railways to encourage rail transport. Finally, saying that the Minister will naturally be confronted, during this Parliament, with many discussions which the Greens will bring to the Assembly of the Republic on these matters, but mainly with concrete initiatives, on which all parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to express themselves. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our planet is over 4 billion years old, during which it has seen extensive changes in the climate. currently, the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere has reached the highest point of the last 500 000 years. The temperature change rate is higher than that observed during the glacial oscillations of Plistocene. The oceans are also experiencing thermal changes, accentuated by the rising temperature of the surface layer and resulting changes in circulation. The conclusions of the Paris Summit and the agreement reached cannot leave us without a doubt waiting for any "invisible hand" to resolve the issues on the table. In view of this, it is necessary to focus the debate on the real problems, in a context where market solutions can certainly not be the course to be taken. Otherwise, let's see: in what way did marketable licences, like an environmental stock exchange, contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions? They have contributed, yes, to the construction of another speculative model, of privatization of the atmosphere, of mercantillization of nature and natural resources. More: the temporary capacity of forests to act as carbon sinks is being used as a justification not only to continue as to promote the use of fossil fuels. Let us consider the example of companies whose emissions are limited and which are burning hydrocarbons above the prescribed limit, claiming that the wetlands compensate for those emissions. This means that carbon dioxide is being used to justify an emission which should not even have occurred, resulting in a further increase in greenhouse gas emissions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here to give a warning about the so-called 'carbon neutrality', which we consider to be of little importance and, to the very extent, may even be perverse. Carbon compensation is a mechanism through which carbon emissions in developed countries can be offset by reducing the emissions claimed in developing countries. Credits are allocated to those who claim that they avoid or reduce carbon and may subsequently be sold at market rates to carbon emitters. That is, a company that intends to continue or even accentuate the gas emission rate, pollutant here, plant a forest somewhere else, earns credits to pollute more here, can impose environmentally harmful monoculture models on the other site and still earns credits to destroy the environmental balance. in the middle of this, we are ironic and disastrously facilitating the increase in carbon emissions and also promoting interference in developing countries. Market solutions also have another dimension. With the drop in fuel prices it became cheaper to pollute. There are proven cases of power stations that have returned to the use of fossil fuels because at the moment this is a more compensatory option. Paris did not concentrate on assuming the principle of common but differentiated responsibility between developing and industrialized countries. The single system that is proposed deepens the injustices between the countries that contribute most and have contributed to the accumulation of carbon in the atmosphere and the developing countries. The aim of strengthening the Green Fund for the 100 billion dollars annually does not hide that the board game is, after all, a multi-million-dollar business opportunity to promote the financing of the projects of the large economic groups and to satisfy the predatory appetite for capitalist domination of the resources of the developing countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP reaffirms that the burden of environmental problems must fall on the capitalist system and on monopoly groups and cannot be ruled out by large polluters for the shoulders of workers and peoples. It is not acceptable to severely penalise individual behaviours with taxes and fees, such as the misuse of the so-called Green Taxation of the last PSD/CDS government, while the biggest polluters of their responsibilities are exempt. [[Congratulations from the PCP and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u78	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legacy left by the PSD/CDS government also in terms of climate and energy policies has greatly raised the fascia, allowing Portugal to be placed at the top of countries with better climate and energy performance. Portugal has been internationally recognized in this leadership in green growth and combating climate change, and has also led the process of discussing the new European climate-energy package for 2030 with the formulation of the Portuguese proposal for the 2030 Climate-Energy Package, of four ambitious targets at four levels, which the PSD/CDS Government has defended for Europe and assumed for Portugal. Four targets that result in our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40 %; to increase renewable energy by 40 %; to increase energy efficiency by 30 %; and to strengthen energy interconnections by 25 %, which will allow Portugal to assert itself as a renewable energy exporter for Europe. At the same time, the PSD/CDS government promoted climate policy with the approval of the National Carbon Low Route, continuing with the implementation of the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy and promoting the start of the work with a view to the development of the new National Climate Change Programme (PNAC), which will include the identification of a set of low carbon options, on the time horizon of 2020 - 2030. This whole set of reforms undertaken in the area of energy and climate change have allowed for greater predictability and stability in the regulatory system, which, for its part, have made it possible to attract important external investment in the area of renewable energy. As a result, Portugal has reached the value of 62 % of the use of renewable energy sources in electricity — compared to the 45 % existing in 2011 — and the country has reached the lowest level of external energy dependence of 71 % of the last 20 years, placing Portugal on the list of the 10 countries with the best energy performance, published by the World Economic Forum. Mr Minister, let me tell you that you are a lucky man, a man who receives an inheritance, allow me to use the popular expression « a rich father's inheritance». We need to know whether, for the sake of Portugal, you will be able to maintain it. This requires the Government to have the vision of the future needed to face the challenge of combating climate change, not as a threat, but as a competitive, economic, social, environmental and job promotion opportunity for the country. We are faced with a paradigm shift in the development model which should seek sectoral policies geared towards encouraging the decarbonisation of the economy or, in the expression consensualized in the Paris Agreement, to « carbon neutrality ». following the Paris Agreement, we are faced with the best opportunity to promote a new process of reindustrialisation, based on promotion and investments in the green and low carbon economy, strategy, in fact, already pursued by the previous Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the success of the COP21 Agreement depends on the policies of national governments and therefore it is now up to the Government to achieve the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. In Portugal, much of the way is done, but it is necessary to continue this same path. on our part, we will be careful and vigilant so that the commitment made in Paris will be tracked, in the continuity of what has been done by the Government of the CDS and the PSD over the past four years. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u80	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: According to the public consultation on energy and climate in the European Union prior to the United Nations Conference on Climate Change, COP 21, 70 % of people considered that despite climate change to be not a priority, they should become a priority. In Portugal there were 59 % who demonstrated the same understanding. The perception of public opinion on the risks of climate change seems to be higher than that of many governments and above all the determination that immediate action is needed has become a priority in broad sectors of our communities. The holiday effort of Laurent Fabius is therefore understood at the end of COP21, when it announced and considered historic the Paris Agreement. It is that the danger of disappointment was the first step towards disbelief. This should have been the first concern of the parties in COP21 regarding the content of the Agreement. If it had, the party would have been spontaneous in the north and south of Ecuador. But the ban on the expression of citizenship on the streets of Paris was a bad warning that affected the Conference and certainly its conclusions. The idea that climate conferences can turn into broad media operations so that everything is as usual, under the pressure of the anti-climate lobby, must be a red line. Mitigation, financing and transparency were the key words of COP21. But it is difficult, very difficult, to find them with substance in the Paris Agreement. First, mitigation. The word has disappeared from the articulate.The reduction in greenhouse gas emissions that all COP21 countries are available to perform is not compatible with the objective of keeping below 1, 5 or 2. C the increase in global temperature until the end of the century. Together with what each country has declared to be available to reduce its emissions, it turns out that, within ten years, more than half of this limit has already been spent and over the next five years 75% will have been exhausted, which is when 70 years are still missing by the end of the century. in this table, the global temperature increase will reach 3 % or 4 %, resulting in devastating effects on the planet. Another key word for good intentions is « financing », because the $100 billion fund announced to avoid the rise in emissions in developing economies is insufficient and is not guaranteed. In fact, there is a tradition of non-compliance of donations to this fund. The financing of technology transfer to the regions of the world which are already most affected by climate change and which less resources have is a responsibility of the industrialized countries which historically created this situation. Finally, I am talking about transparency, so that goals and commitments can be monitored and the countries responsible. Let's remember Kyoto. There is no link when ambiguity is the main criterion. And Article 15. that of the Paris Agreement shows that, in order to promote compliance with the Agreement, a committee of experts will be set up to function in a transparent manner — it is good — but not in a contentious or penal way. IMF interventions in weaker economies have strict and uncompromising criteria. in the European Union, sovereign debts are irrenegotiable, beyond deficit limits results in sanctions, but for climate change everything is negotiable: there are no limits nor any sanctions foreseen. The words « mitigation », « financing » and « transparency » were all replaced by a single word : « ambiguity ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u82	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u83	I conclude now, Mr President. The interests of fossil energies were in COP21 and clearly marked this presence. Coal, oil and gas are responsible for 80 % of total C02 emissions and are the main factors of climate disturbance. It is essential to find a new decarbonized energy paradigm for economies and societies. The mode of production and consumption based on fossil energy resists change. The system, in view of the possibility of exploiting new hydrocarbon deposits, saliva in the expectation of fabulous profits and in the short term, even if this is the absolute opposite of the entire rhetoric disseminated in the various pavilions of the rich countries at COP21.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u84	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. The prospect of oil on the Portuguese coast, starting with the Algarve, is the example of this. It is true that Portugal did not have any flag at COP21, but we finally understood that it did not have it. The map that divides the maritime space along the Portuguese coast into fields of oil and gas exploration would not have been our pride. This is a historic moment of change for renewable energy, for advanced technologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u86	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u87	But this is the way we have to go in Portugal and we hope that the ambiguity of the Paris Agreement does not limit the country's pursuit of more ambitious goals and a firm contribution to the decarbonization of the economy, the defense of the planet and humanity. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u89	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « It is always impossible until it’s done» — a phrase attributed to Nelson Mandela and which joins this brief analysis that I make to the Paris Agreement, in inspiration for the challenges now facing Portugal and the world. The materialization of the objectives of COP21 represents a moment of profound significance for the future of humanity and there can be no happier circumstance on a stage of political election than to contribute to the realization of initiatives for peace, for the well-being, for the justice of peoples and for the preservation of a planet that receives an extraordinary diversity of life forms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The agreement now reached may not have the desired ambition and may even raise many doubts about its effectiveness, but it has the authority necessary to mobilize progressively and in concert what better can do science, technology, industry and society in general, in favor of a universal path that is intended inclusive, ecological and prosperous. Gas emissions from greenhouse gases have been steadily increasing since the pre-industrial era, largely as a result of population expansion and economic growth. On a global scale, energy remains the main source of polluting emissions followed by forest, agriculture and land use, industry and transport and construction sectors. The potential impacts of climate change are known — the lower productivity of ecosystems and the reduced availability of water and food, the need to move human populations, the worsening of poverty, the increase in storms and other extreme climate events, the change in marine currents and, consequently, of climate patterns at local level, the increase in sea level and its effects on coastal shore. The Paris Agreement represents the necessary political roadmap to boost a global energy programme, with a view to the progressive decarbonisation of the economy, based on a set of four objectives: the most efficient use of energy; the increasing consumption of renewable energy; the reduction of deforestation; a bet on forest management in new and adapted agricultural practices, valuing carbon sequestration and storage; the promotion of informed lifestyles and behaviors for paradigm change. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a national plan to combat climate change, with policy guidelines and sectoral targets for reducing emissions, to develop together with sectors such as transport, energy, agriculture and forest. It is necessary to strengthen the commitment in renewable energies, especially solar and wind mobility, energy efficiency, sustainable construction, forest management, innovation of practices and agricultural and forestry options, in health management plans, in particular in cities, in the prevention of various diseases associated with climate and education. National environmental policies have interpreted the country's responses to the impact of climate change, identifying in a competent way the strategic role of public policies for mitigation and adaptation. I welcome Mr Jorge Moreira da Silva at the moment. Unfortunately, there has been some inability to ensure consistent and firm implementation throughout political cycles, but it must be recognized that at the international level this oscillating action has also occurred, despite the unanimous recognition of the potential effects of climate change on human health and the development of societies, affecting the availability of essential resources, coastal management or biodiversity, imposing a policy of planning and organization of cities adapted to this new reality. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal will always win with good environmental policies. Portugal will benefit from the conservation and exploitation of its natural resources, the planning and qualification of its territory, its watercourses and its vast sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u90	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u91	Portugal also benefits when it fights the virtual borders that have conditioned progress, municipalities and regions, inhibiting the wager in the integrated public policies that the country requires. Portugal also benefits when it guarantees the functional flows of its rivers and the re-qualification of its margins, when it ensures the quality and sustainability of its water resources, in the sorting of its productive and diverse forest, in the rise of its diverse agricultural systems of typology, respecting the realities of a equally different country, and in the promotion of proximity consumption, in a more effective use of endogenous resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u92	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u93	I will finish, Mr. President. The Paris Agreement is therefore also an opportunity for us to prepare the future, embracing the road map that places us in the front platoon, among the architects of sustained development, among those countries that anticipate the course of history. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u94	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Agreement reached at the Paris Summit, we reaffirm, is robust enough, comprehensive and inclusive to strengthen our ambition. It is the same ambition that we have had for Portugal in recent years and that has allowed the new government to arrive in Paris with the work done. We didn't expect Paris. We didn't expect others to set new goals for us. in the last four years, we have addressed climate change as a reality and a priority of national policy. For our own reasons, we have taken on a set of demanding goals and started fulfilling them, reforming the country, even in a particularly difficult period for Portugal and the Portuguese. Never, but never, do we hide behind economic and financial constraints to stop developing a new and demanding generation of climate policy instruments. Unfortunately, we could not count on the opposition parties that are now in government or government. unlike a hundred civil society organizations that signed the Green Growth Commitment, the left and left radical parties did not, unfortunately, want to associate themselves with a single document on a global scale and promoter of an economic development model that reconciles competitiveness with efficient use of resources and environmental protection. The same parties that are today in the Government or with the Government and are today with Paris are the same as in recent times they have not been with Portugal. They are the same ones who, for example, have always defended the reduction of fossil fuels, but who later opposed the measures to dynamize electrical mobility because they considered it to be a luxury. They are the same ones that have always claimed the protection of the coast, but then all the reasons were good to interrupt the demolition of illegal buildings on the coastal shore. [[PSD applause.]] They are the same ones who have always raised the argument of the need to give economic and financial sustainability to the water sector, but who then fought and still fight the reorganization of the Waters Group of Portugal. They are the same ones that have always demanded the increase of energy autonomy, but which later opposed investment in wind and water in Portugal for this or for that reason. They are the same ones who have always demanded a greater demand for large energy companies, but who, as we saw with the green tax reform, preferred to align with the oil sector’s speech, repeating their arguments, is startling! They are the same ones who have always defended the induction of more sustainable behaviours, but who then voted against the carbon rate on sectors not included in emissions trading, voted against the increase in vehicle tax rates based on CO2 emissions and voted against the taxation of light plastic bags. Yes, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they are the same as they are with Paris today, but in a recent past they have not been with Portugal. They are the same ones that in the past were in opposition, but today they are in government or with the government, a new government, which started bad in Lisbon and ended up worse in Paris, launching into the national press distortions of reality around Mr. Prime Minister's non-disclosure. Beyond this unfortunate episode, we should point out positively that the new government, at least in Paris, embraced the political options and objectives of the previous PSD / CDS-PP Government. With great clarity, Mr. Secretary of State of the Environment said in an interview with the News Diário de Noticias: "We have made an important path, we have a national plan to adapt to climate change and a strategy for the sector of energy production and transport. We will continue what we have been doing in Portugal, which has been very positive». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we close this debate, we must say that is what we expect. We hope that everything we've achieved over the past four years will not be wasted, not broken. After the results of the Paris Summit, we sincerely hope that Portugal will be able to continue the path down here, a world-leading Portugal in green growth, which protects the environment, which generates business opportunities and creates jobs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u96	To close the debate, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, Dear colleagues of the Government : The road began in 1997, it had important moments in 2002 and in fact Portugal had as champion at the time of the last socialist government and not in the last government before it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having convictions is always the most important part at the beginning of a negotiation process. It is from these convictions that you can understand the other parts and define the margins of flexibility. in the process leading to the Paris Agreement, the convictions of the European Union and Portugal, with it, were decisive for their success. We act as a block, we have managed to resolve our internal differences, to find the right bridges with other regional blocs, particularly the Pacific island States, those who are seriously at risk of disappearing, if we do not thoroughly stop global warming. I remember the sentence of Jaime Lerner, the famous mayor of Curitiba, to whom I heard one day say « tendency is not fate ». It's always in our hands to do better. And Portugal is in fact one of the countries that has already reversed the trend. The year 2005 was the year of the peak of our emissions and, soon thereafter, the renewable energy use programme made us champions in this area and a case of study, as has been mentioned. We went beyond the Kyoto Protocol, exceeded the performance we were linked to, limited the increase in emissions in the period 2008 - 2012 to 20 % compared to 1990, when the Kyoto target allowed a 27 % increase, and from here, in a consistent action, we adopted national legislation, since 2002, to meet our commitments and establish a strategic framework defining the vision and objectives of national climate policy. But mistrust, lack of vision of the future, the idea that sustainable is synonymous with expensive, led the previous government, particularly in its early years, to interrupt the work that was being done. And it is stressed that the paralysis of environmental policies occurred mainly in the early years of the previous government, in which the environment was reduced to an incomprehensible irrelevance, is also to place for the positive the change of attitude in the years 2014 and 2015, which enabled the country, for example, to have contributed so positively to the reach of Paris. The technical preparation of the Climate Convention and its continuity should pride us and also demonstrate the capacity that Portugal has to incorporate political changes without compromising the basis of its commitments and external relations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, deeply discrediting the economy is much more than a will. If you asked me to summarize in a single word the object of the Ministry of the Environment would not be better. Deeply decarbonize the economy, along the way to stop using fossil fuels in energy production is an imperative to begin to fulfill from now on. on the side of the political responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, it is not, as you will know, energy policy, but are all the energy efficiency options of buildings, especially in urban rehabilitation, and all the sustainable mobility options. Reiterating the need for the relevance of energy production exclusively from renewable sources and this is essential to comply with Paris, I will talk essentially about the policies to be pursued in order to reduce the need for energy consumption. From then on, the concept of sustainable cities is the starting point for achieving the full integration of environmental policies. The dense cities are, for example, urban rehabilitation, services of greater proximity, speed of access to the workplace, all this through a new pattern of mobility in transport whose focus is on promoting the use of collective transport. The new Ministry, in addition to its traditional component, which includes services in the areas of water and waste, land management, housing and urban rehabilitation, now integrates the areas of sustainable and intelligent mobility, thus contributing to the construction of a more sustainable and inclusive society. We hope that in the future all buildings will need almost zero energy and that the few energy needs of buildings will be met from renewable energy sources, effectively contributing to the reduction of pollutant emissions. Thermally isolate housing, install new energy-saving equipment, promote thermal solar use are examples of the use of equipment and technologies that will be promoted. at the level of transport, our work will be based on the implementation of positive discrimination measures, such as modal transfer for collective transport and promoting the transition to mobility based on the use of public transport of soft modes and using vehicles with environmentally friendly technologies, to the detriment of mobility based on the abuse of individual transport. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it will not be easy to reduce energy consumption and dependence on fossil fuels, but we also know that this is our challenge and the only choice. We will never cross our arms to achieve our goals — better consumption, greater efficiency — and this only brings benefits: we reduce CO2 emissions, as we commit ourselves in Paris, and we contribute to the balance of trade. We therefore believe that the development of a comprehensive vision of city policy is crucial to achieving the objectives we have proposed at national and international level. This is the turning point for the whole planet. Combating climate change is a global battle and perhaps even the last opportunity to leave the next generations a more sustainable, stable and healthy planet. The challenges for the coming years are not just for politicians. We are all called to this struggle, from the citizen common to the scientific community, because responsibility is necessarily shared. Now, then, there is a new verb that must have support not only from the majority of parliament but, rather, from all over the country, which is the verb « decarbonise». [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u98	The thematic debate required by the Greens on 21 is thus concluded. The Climate Summit. I think all of you. Members have already voted in the elections that are under way, including for the Council of State. If any Member has not yet voted, this is the time to say, so that we can put the vote to an end. [[Pause.]] Since no one is speaking, I declare the vote closed. in this way, we have the opportunity to announce the results even today, after the legislative votes. We shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. As you know, for record, the touch screen is used, but if it does not work, they always have, as a powerful alternative, the mouse on the keyboard. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, will not be able to register will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence will be considered at the meeting. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u99	Mr President, on the CDS, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva was unable to register and, I believe, Mr Paulo Portas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u100	I would like to ask whether, with regard to the other parliamentary committees, all the Members of Parliament. Members recorded. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 225 presences, to which 2 are added from the CDS-PP, making 227 Members, and therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting, in general, on Bill No. 1 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Special social support programme for the third island ( ALRAA ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the prevention and control of epidemics of dengue fever ( ALRAM ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increased social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u101	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u102	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u103	Mr President, it is in order to announce to the House that, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, we will present a statement of vote on the vote on Bill No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) we have just voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u104	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the hospital in the county of Seixal ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u105	It's just Azia!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u106	We now vote on draft resolution No 48/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen access to primary health care in the Setúbal Peninsula and the construction of Seixal Hospital ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u107	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u108	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u109	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u110	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u111	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u112	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u113	Mr President, it is to be announced that with regard to draft resolutions 42 and 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), which we have just voted on, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u114	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by reintroducing rail rights to transport concessions ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions by the Members of the PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u115	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u116	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u117	Mr President, that is to say that I will make a statement of vote not only on the vote we have just taken but also on the next two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u118	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u119	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u120	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u121	Mr President, I request permission to make an oral statement at the end of the voting period on the vote on the draft resolution that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u122	It's regiment, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u123	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u124	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u125	Mr President, in the same way, the Left Block bench will also present an oral vote at the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u126	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u127	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u128	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u129	Mr President, it is only to say that I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u130	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 28 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by replacing the right of railways and their families to transport concessions ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions by the Members of the PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 39 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of transport concessions ( PS ) to railways. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions by the Members of the PS Helena Roseta and Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u131	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u132	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u133	Mr President, it is to announce, on behalf of the PSD Members, that we shall deliver a statement of vote on the last three votes taken. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u134	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u135	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u136	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau and the House that I will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u137	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u138	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u139	Mr President, I believe that the oral explanations of vote requested by the honourable Members are correct. Members of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure for draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u140	That was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u141	I would therefore like to know what the rule of law provides for the declaration of oral vote on these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u142	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u144	Mr President, this plea by Mr Hugo Lopes Soares only sins for lack of memory. This manoeuvre, to avoid voting statements in all legislative initiatives — a practice which, on the contrary, has always happened — was inaugurated by the PSD and the CDS on the subject of a vote, which took place here in the last legislature, on the barrier islands, in the Algarve. And it was a maneuver that the PSD and CDS imposed at the time, against all practice and that, of course, two weeks later, was immediately corrected,... [[PSD protests.]] ... having turned to practice there are explanations of vote on all initiatives. This observation by Mr Hugo Lopes Soares therefore makes no sense. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u145	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u146	Please, Mr. Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u147	Mr President, it is only to contribute to the clarification and to mention that what Mr. João Oliveira has said may be true. I don't have an exact memory of that. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u148	But what the honourable Member has just said is either very wrong to me or wanted to mean that Mr. João Oliveira and his bank agree with the interpretation that there should be no statements of the oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u149	No, no! Opposite
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u150	As far as I can tell, that is what the honourable Member wanted to say and I wanted to record that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u151	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would propose that this issue be discussed at the next Conference of Leaders, because it is not here at plenary level that these issues, which are omitted from the Rules of Procedure, can be discussed. Exactly because they are omitted from the Rules of Procedure, does not mean that they are not possible and, therefore, today, we will accept these explanations of vote. [[PSD protests.]] Then at the Conference of Leaders we will decide what is done in this situation. however, if you would like to appeal to the plenary of the President's decision, please. If no one resorts to the plenary, it is clear that there will be such statements of vote today and that we will discuss the problem at the next Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u153	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u154	Please, Mr Hugo Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u155	Mr President, on behalf of the Members of the Socialist Party, elected by the electorate of Santarém, we will also present an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u156	Mrs. Members, we are going to vote, in general, on draft law No 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of IRS ( PS ) overtax. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] For the same draft law No 42 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), we shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernization. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on Bill No 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of IRS ( PS ) overtax. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u157	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u158	Mr. João Paulo Correia, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u159	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is required under Articles 156. o is 157. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, the waiver of the final wording of this final text and also that the deadline for appeal, after publication in Journal of the Republic, is shorter than 1 day. By the way, we also wanted to extend this requirement to the projects of lein. 43 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PS ) to be voted on below.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u160	Mr President, only after these diplomas are approved will you be able to make such a request. But, in relation to the first, to the final text relating to draft law No 42/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PS ), when there is no opposition, the application proposed by Mr. João Paulo Correia is approved. We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on Bill No 43 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of revenue provided for in the 2015 State budget ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on Bill No 34 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in Public Administration ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u161	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u162	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u163	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote and the following.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u164	Mrs. Members, there follows a request, submitted by the PS, for a lawyer by the plenary of the discussion and vote, in the specialty, of Bill No 34 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in Public Administration ( PS ) as well as its proposal for the addition of a new Article, Article 2. o -A (Application). We also have another request by the CFP for the full debate and, in particular, for its proposal to amend Article 2. the ( Applicable regime) of the same Law No 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, can we vote together on these two demands? [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, we shall vote together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No. 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in the Public Administration ( PS ) as well as those proposed amendments to the PS and the CFP for which each parliamentary group will have 2 minutes. We shall then proceed to the vote, in particular. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has brought to this debate the only proposal aimed at the full replacement of salaries of employees of the Public Administration. It was not the proposal of the CFP and this possibility would not even be under discussion today. The CFP presented this proposal because it does not forget the commitments it makes, nor does it turn its back on the workers, and much less gives rise to the temptation to abandon commitments to change what can be achieved more immediately. The CFP has not spared any effort to ensure that the resolution of this debate and this vote could fully correspond to the interests and rights of workers. Therefore, we have brought to this debate the proposal for full replacement of salaries in the Public Administration, with the firm conviction that this is the proposal that best corresponds to the aspirations and aspirations of the employees of the Public Administration, doing justice to those workers who, five years ago, have their salaries cut off. We accept that full payment is only possible from the publication of the State Budget for 2016 and therefore the government is expected to pay the retroactives as soon as the State Budget for 2016 is in place. The CFP presented this proposal with the conviction that the full replacement of wages is not only fair as it is fully feasible. It is possible to return the salaries in full and find, within the State budget, measures to obtain the revenue that ensure the full payment of wages in 2016. We do not ignore that the commitments made by the various parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic are not all the same and we do not ignore the differences in the position of each. We know that the commitment of the PSD and CDS was to cut the salaries permanently and indefinitely. We also know that the other proposal under discussion in this debate, in addition to the proposal put forward by the CFP, is the proposal submitted by the PS, of phased replacement of wages, and we are witnesses to the conditions in which the discussion led to the PS maintaining this proposal. The CFP has not spared any effort to ensure that the resolution of this debate and this vote could be more broadly in line with the interests and rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u166	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u167	I shall conclude, Mr President. And we cannot fail to see, in our view, the insufficiency and the doubts that persist with regard to the proposal for phased replacement, in view of the comprehensive replacement that we continue to defend. We hope that, by clarifying each party's positions in this debate, it will still be possible today to approve the proposal submitted by the CFP and to ensure the full replacement of wages to employees of the Public Administration in 2016. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u168	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on public service salaries is very similar to the overtax debate. And listen well, Mr. João Oliveira, to be clear to all: on the one hand, there are those who think that there must be a gradual recovery, so that, year after year, the employees of the Public Administration will recover what the ransom has cut. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Gradually, this recovery is definitive, because it is conciliable with the budgetary targets. It is not a rhetorical issue, gradual recovery has already begun in 2015 and so should happen in 2016. So, on the one hand, there are those who defend the gradual recovery of wages — this is our case — and, on the other hand, it is an auction, to see who gives more and more quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u171	Does that mean they vote in favour of our proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u172	But here is a small problem: if, at the end of next year, the bill does not close, this means that management has misled public officials and that what they now want to give more quickly, tomorrow, will take away. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Lusa tells Lusa that today he is advancing « management B », a mere trick to save appearances: PS, Block and PAN, together forever. But the Portuguese Communist Party is missing. Tip : Advance The Greens, retreat Jerome. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Detail: As the strategic autonomy of The Greens never existed, our friend and Mr. Jerome believes that people do not understand the trick. And the trick is this: give in to the PS, you'll say you didn't give in, but, on the way, you put The Greens voting next to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u174	Just like that! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u175	This is « management B ». And along the way they stay, and remain, your promises. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: After hearing the CFP's intervention and before we start this discussion and for it to be very serious, it is appropriate to clarify a first question from now on. There are no parties and politicians who like workers on the one hand and parties and politicians who do not like workers on the other. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u178	Exactly! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u179	There was, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to call on public administration workers to raise the country. The country sunk by the spending of the PS. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a public recognition is made here that all of them have historically endured this effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u181	The country will never forget its contribution. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a country recovered from bankruptcy, commitments made, deficits below 3 % and public accounts in order allowed the PSD and CDS government to restore, during this year of 2015, 20 % of the loss of income of employees of the Public Administration. If the gentlemen. Members are not well informed about this matter, I recommend consultation with Law No 75 / 2014 of 12 September 2014. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to restoring these incomes gradually. And you say: "No, no! We give everything, and now! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no doubt: we are committed to restoring these incomes gradually...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u183	... and you say: « No, no! We're resting now and all at once! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The PS has already shown us—and you know how they will do—how it is that, quietly and without anyone knowing it, you reach a new rescue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u184	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u185	You know how to do some kind of illusionism where no one sees, but then everyone feels. What happens at this time is that the week of discussion and public appreciation of this project did not allow Mr. State Secretaries have submitted their accounts to the country on the gross and net impact of this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u186	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u187	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that our position, the PSD position is very cautious, very cautious... [[PS protests.]] ... and it is with this caution that we warn all employees of the Public Administration that, eventually, in the short term, extraordinary measures may arise which will cost the triple of the sacrifices to the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u188	The Constitutional Court will say so!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u189	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public servants have been cut since 2011. [[Since 2010, with the PS!]] [[Since 2010, with the PS!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u191	For me, it's the same. Since 2010, very good! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, when I can continue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u192	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to be so euphoric when you talk in certain years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u193	What started in 2010 ends in 2016,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u194	... with the beginning of a cycle of reversal of the attacks that you have made on the public service and of which is also part of the reversal of 40 hours to 35 hours and the reversal of the qualification regime, which has already begun. The right will say that the difference is at the rate of replacement of cuts. But the difference is not at the pace. The difference is that there are some people who think that the country's problems are solved by cuts in wages and others who think that the country's problems are not solved without restoring wages cuts. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The difference is that there are some who meet electoral commitments and others who believe that the correspondence between electoral propaganda and action either is mere coincidence or is the result of the Constitutional Court's decision, because the courts, even for you, have become temporary only because of the Constitutional Court's obligation. Otherwise, they would be definitive, as was your will. The Left Block had a commitment and went with him to the elections: immediately end the cuts. The Socialist Party had a proposal: to end the cuts in two years. Our commitment was strong enough to bring this matter to the negotiating table with the Socialist Party, which enabled this agreement now in force. We are very much beaten by the return of the cuts in public service, by the return of wages to public servants. We fight for this to be done in 2016 and not in two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u195	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u196	This is not our initial proposal, but this is not the left block government either. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u197	What's the question? Oh, my God! What part haven't you noticed yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u198	This is the proposal that forms part of a rights recovery agreement, with a guarantee... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, that is how it is difficult for me to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member finish her speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u200	If Mr. President could interrupt the time count every time I'm interrupted, I'd be grateful. As I said, this is the proposal that is part of a rights recovery agreement, with a guarantee: in January civil servants will receive more than in December, in April they will receive more than in January, in June they will receive more than in April and in October they will have their wages completely. This is the guarantee! [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The people do not demand, nor do they want anything at all, but they want to see a political change. Today's vote is a political change, it is the vote that honours the rights recovery agreement which the Left Block has signed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u201	PCP one, Block zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u202	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS-PP is so drunk with the expressions it uses that it does not even take care to see the votes that have actually just occurred. That is what Mr Lobo d’Ávila said was not what happened. Therefore, perhaps, it is better to consult the vote that has just taken place again, because it does not correspond to what I said. [[PCP laughter.]] The gentlemen. Members of the CDS-PP and PSD are very pleased with the word « management ». But the fact is that there are four parties that have made an agreement that has allowed you to increase the income you have cut, and that is the only thing that matters to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This week, the Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the parties on its left—and now, also of the NAP—is inverting the right-wing income cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the only thing that matters to the Portuguese! The cuts in public service salaries, whose values we are returning today, would have been even greater if it were not the Constitutional Court. As we all remember very well, the cuts that the PSD and the CDS-PP really wanted to make in wages were from €645, and this was prevented by the Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens. [[Well remembered!]] [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u204	We are here today because we are faithful to our commitments. This week, the Portuguese—not only the civil servants, but also those who paid the overtax, who received the family allowance, who received the solidarity supplement for the elderly and those who received the social income of insertion—know that this supposed management really works and gives all these people the opportunity to recover their income, and that is what you do not support. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Let me tell you, Mr President, that the Azedum of the PSD and the CDS-PP we have seen in recent weeks because there are parties who are concerned about recovering rights and returns is very revealing of your governance and of what they have become in recent times. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u205	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u206	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, in fact, I remember that Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS never voted differently, never thought differently and blindly obeyed the government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] None of this would eventually be a problem if your policy had not been all aimed at harming the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] But, now, let it be, Mr. Deputies. Let it be because Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has already issued an order for the end of the coalition. They've been thinking about you. So let's see what the result is, now being in opposition. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let me explain what this was: The Greens defend the full replacement of wages at the beginning of 2016; the Socialist Party defends the replacement in two years. in the conversations we made we approached positions... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u207	... and, in October 2016, Portuguese workers will see full returns to their salaries, wages that you stole—remember that, don't forget. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]] And I am here suspicious that this thing that you call 'the gradual replacement of wages' would eventually be to earn time, to replace these cuts with other cuts, because you were defending a low-wage policy and they sought to implement it at all costs. No one takes this away from my head, and I don't think it's the generals of the Portuguese either. Your logic was extraordinarily clear: a huge damage to Portuguese workers and, above all, to public officials. Conclusion: Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, who has won this new policy and this new measure? The Portuguese workers! Good afternoon, sir! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u208	Mrs. Members, finished the debate in the speciality of Bill No 34 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), we proceed to your vote in the speciality. We shall vote for Article 1. o ( Subject). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] We shall vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 2. the ( Applicable regime) of draft law No 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — In 2016, the monthly net total remuneration received by workers covered by the remuneration reduction provided for in Law No 75/2014 of 12 September is paid in the following terms: (a) During the extension of the duration of the State Budget Act for 2015, in accordance with the Budget Framework Act, with reference to the amounts taken in 2015; (b) From the month following the publication of the State Budget for 2016, in full. 2 — The Government shall be authorised to make, by decree and within 30 days of publication of the State budget for 2016, the approval of the conditions under which payment of remuneration retroactives relating to the difference between the amount resulting from the application of point (a) of the previous paragraph and the value of its full remuneration shall be made.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. the ( Applicable regime) of draft law No 34 / XIII. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an addendum submitted by the PS of Article 2. o -A ( Application) to Bill No. 34 / XIII. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 1 — The arrangements provided for in this Law shall apply for the purposes of Articles 56, 75 and 98 of Law No 82-B/2014 of 31 December 2014. 2 — The provisions of Law No 75/2014 of 12 September shall apply where this diploma does not contravene.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. the ( Entry into force) of the draft law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in the Public Administration ( PS ), as amended in the meantime. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u212	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u213	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the draft law which has now been approved, together with the Members. Ladies and gentlemen Mercês Borges, Carla Barros, Cristóvão Crespo and Emília Santos, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u215	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u216	Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u217	Yes, Mr President, that is to say that we will deliver a statement of vote in writing on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u218	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. Now let's pass...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u219	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u220	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u221	Mr President, it is also to announce that, on the vote on this bill, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u222	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we move on to Bill No 35 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ( PS ). Let's vote for it in general. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, we now have to vote for two requests for advocacy by the plenary, one, of the PS, of discussion and vote in the speciality of Bill No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and the other, the CFP, the discussion and vote on the speciality of the proposed amendment to Article 2. the draft law. Let's vote them together. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now entering the period of discussion in the specialty. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some facts in this debate and they are worth remembering. First of all, we are discussing the ESC today (extraordinary contribution of solidarity ). The ESC was created by the Socialist Party. Today, in 2015, the ESC, fortunately, no longer applies to more than 90 % of pensioners. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u224	What we are discussing today is the extinction of the ESC, which still remains and which applies only to pensions above €4600. [[PCP and Block defend!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u225	What we have been attending in this debate on the ESC is not the case of being concerned with people's lives and their ability to schedule the future, until it could be comical, because really the PS positions have not been one or two, have been quite varied. First, we started with a PS position in the Programme, which was: « we will eliminate the ESC that still persists gradually, in 2016 and 2017 ». Then, when management began to function and test its first steps, it was pointed out in the SIC by the leader of the Socialist Party that, after all, there could be immediately the elimination of the ESC.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u226	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u227	Third, 15 days ago, a proposal from the CDS and the PSD, to do in 2016 precisely the same thing that the PS is now proposing and that, we assume, will vote favourably, but it is already possible at this time, in order to gradually eliminate the ESC, it has been, I repeat, chumbada. Fourthly, we are now discussing a PS proposal exactly the same as they went down 15 days ago. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Therefore, I say only this, Mr President: our position has been, is, and will always be the same; that of the PS is that a few days is one thing; other days is another.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u229	In conclusion, Mr President — thanking you for your tolerance from now on — saying that, since we are talking about pensions, it might be good to remember the most serious fact of all: we knew yesterday that for the first time in several years, minimum social and rural pensions will be increased below expected inflation. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u230	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u231	Therefore, what management is forecasting is that for the first time, in several years, the poorest pensioners lose purchasing power from inflation. This, yes, is serious, it's sad and it marks this day. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u232	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not true what Mrs Cecilia Meireles said about the ESC. The Socialist Party created the ESC in the State budget for 2010 for 0, 3% of the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u234	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u235	Who created for the other 80 % or 90 % was PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u236	But did the PS create, or didn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u237	And this measure does not exist today only once again, because the Constitutional Court considered it unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u238	But it was the PS who created it, or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u239	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we are going to tell the truth about the ESC : the Socialist Party has created an extraordinary contribution of solidarity to 0, 3 % of pensioners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u240	Then created!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u241	... for pensions above €4600, and PSD and CDS have extended it to pensions much lower than that value. This is the truth, Your Honor! She tried to pass the idea that it was not so, that it was the Socialist Party that had extended it to all pensioners, but it was not, it was really the PSD and the CDS. [[CDS-PP protests.]] On the other hand, the CDS continues to work in a misunderstanding: whenever it talks about poor pensioners, it forgets the social benefit, more important in combating the poverty of the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u242	Do you think Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u243	And it is because it is the most important benefit in combating poverty in the elderly who, with the Socialist Party, poverty in the elderly has fallen vehemently and with you has increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also for this reason that data from the INE have emerged today that show that, in the last year of your governance, the poverty of the elderly has increased again. Perhaps, Mrs. Member, this data should lead the CDS to think a little bit about its obsession with minimum pensions and the systematic devaluation of the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI). By now, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has forgotten to mention that this week has not just been announced freezings of pensions, the replacement of the solidarity supplement for the elderly has also been announced, and we will then resume a path of reducing the poverty of the elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that you, despite your speech, have not been tired of increasing in recent years. It's also to stop what we're here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u244	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke about facts. So, let's go to three facts: first of all, the original plan of the party of the Reformers of Paulo Portas was to cut, ultimately, pensions above 1000 €. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u246	That was the law that they passed, that was the law that the Constitutional Court led and that was the goal of the struggle that the pensioners and pensioners in this country stopped. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] This is because, if it depended on PSD and CDS, that's what you guys had done, that is, cut into definitive pensions over 1000 €. They therefore end with the speech that they wear the jacket of the rights of pensioners, farmers and taxpayers, because for four years you have done exactly the opposite of what your speech says. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u247	He's nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u248	The second fact, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, is a fact of consistency, not only of consistency in speech and practice but of practice over time. As in the previous vote we have just submitted a proposal for the full replacement of wages in 2016, we have also tabled a proposal for the immediate revocation of the ESC in this discussion. Mrs Cecilia Meireles will find in the CFP Parliamentary Group the consistency that is lacking in the CSD Parliamentary Group. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is because, on these matters, Mrs Cecilia Meireles knows that, when the ESC was first approved, the Socialist Party did not have an absolute majority, she needed someone to approve the ESC in this Parliament. Who would have been? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Check the records of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic and understand who has contributed to this. Thirdly, if the Member and the Parliamentary Group of the CDS are so concerned with pensioners, and if the PSD accompanies the CDS in this concern, they have good medicine : now adopt the proposal of the CFP. Stop distilling hate and irritation... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... whenever a measure or proposal is discussed in the Assembly of the Republic which may recover the rights of workers and pensioners,... [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u249	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u250	...that may point out a prospect of recovering the living conditions that you have stolen. That is why they have been defeated in the elections and must comply with it. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u251	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now voting on a proposal equal to the proposal of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u253	There are two!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u254	... but now with the Socialist Party logo. This is exactly the same proposal that we voted 20 days ago, we in favour, the PS, then against. We didn't go back. We keep our word. We don't sell our convictions. But to the Socialist Party we say: "We register and value your change." [[PSD applause.]] Twenty days ago they voted against because the proposal had our logo, today they vote in favour because the proposal has your logo. It seems that that thesis that opened in 2010 when austerity began: when austerity is on the left, it is good; if it is not yours, it is ideological and unacceptable, even if caused and imposed by your bankruptcy and the troika that, for you, arrived in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country, in fact, needs confidence and predictability. It needs predictability, but left-wing behaviors don't help, they throw the confusion. It is not only this exchange of the Socialist Party, it is also the lack of the electoral commitments of the Left Block and the PCP, which have already adopted several measures in this Parliament today, no doubt! — austerity. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u255	They broke their electoral commitment and did what they said three months ago to the voters: "It's a robbery! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u256	And today, here they are prolonging austerity and, who knows, in your words, stealing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u257	You've deceived people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u258	But the Communist Party does more: it not only breaks its electoral commitment, as it is on a permanent stage, and what we saw this week is nothing more than that. The country needs certainty and predictability and not to be fed by this spectacle of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u259	The honourable Member has already exceeded his time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u260	As long as this spectacle of the Communist Party takes place, the Government is afraid to know whether the demands of the Communist agenda are fulfilled there and when the Communist Party does or does not, because it is never known. This is because every week, on the same day, you present something and you vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u261	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u262	We are where we have been: in gradual recovery, responsible and socially fair income...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u263	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u264	Mr. President, I will finish. As I said, we are where we were: in the gradual recovery, responsible and socially fair of income by demanding the extraordinary contribution to the bank, to the pharmaceutical industry, to energy companies and only to pensions above €4600. Mr. João Galamba, the most important social contribution for 1, 1 million pensioners is the minimum pension they receive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u265	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u266	Mr. President, I will conclude. Mr Deputy, with us these 1 million pensioners who receive the minimum pension would have a much greater increase in their pension than the one VV. Ex. They brought it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u267	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u268	Mr. President, Mr. Members of the CDS and PSD have not been able to explain why they have now been able to defend the gradual replacement of wages and pensions that they wanted to cut, ultimately, in the previous legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u269	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u270	By the way, I think you guys are. Members should be grateful to the Members of these seats because they went to the Constitutional Court and allowed them to defend the gradual replacement of income now, otherwise they would be cut to a final end. Thank the Members who have stopped your measures... [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] ... and that now allow you to campaign. It is because of us that the cuts in incomes were not definitive. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The same applies to the ESC. The ESC affects pensions of the contribution scheme; it is discounts from those who worked for a lifetime and discounted for their pension according to their salary. The integrity of pensions is a constitutional right which we believe cannot be violated. It was precisely with this argument, the right of the person who discounted during a lifetime according to his salary in order to be able to have a pension, which we took to the Constitutional Court the measure of the ESC. We cannot vote in any other way, we cannot disagree with this position to take the ESC to the Constitutional Court and that is why we voted and will vote against the Socialist Party's proposal regarding the continuation of the ESC and the court of pensions. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u271	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, the debate in the speciality of Bill No 35 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a ), so we will proceed to the speciality vote. We shall vote for Article 1. o ( Subject). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, it is important to vote now on a proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 2. the (Extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity) of that bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: The extraordinary contribution of solidarity provided for in Article 79 of Law No 82-B/2014 of 31 December is repealed.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u272	We shall vote for Article 2. the ( Applicable regime) of draft law No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. o ( Entry into force) of the same bill. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the bill. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the global final vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u273	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u274	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u275	Mr. President, it is to require the final drafting waiver of the projects of lein.o 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) as well as the reduction of the claim period for one day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u276	Mr President, it has already been announced recently, but now, yes, it makes sense to put the question, so if there is no manifest opposition, this procedure is considered appropriate. [[Pause.]] There is no opposition, so it will be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u277	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u278	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u279	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will deliver a vote statement on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u280	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We then move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals the laws humiliating women who resort to IVG ( Revoking of Law No 134 / 2015, of 7 September, and of Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September ) ( BE), 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores respect for the dignity of Portuguese women and the safeguarding of their sexual and reproductive health by repealing Laws Nos 134 / 2015 and 136 / 2015, both of 7 September ( PS ), 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates coercion and conditioning mechanisms on women in access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, repeals Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015, and reprises Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April ( PCP ) and 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revoking Law No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 in order to combat illegal abortion and to respect the dignity of women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Paula Teixeira da Cruz and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Member Ascension Simões.]] [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u281	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u282	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u283	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u284	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text, also presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the projects of lein 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Elimination of legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( First amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ) ( BE), 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ), 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ), 28 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equality of rights in access to adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex by making the second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PAN) and 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Registry Code, taking into account adoption, assisted medicinal product procreation and civil sponsorship by same-sex couples (BE). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 17 PSD (António Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, Cristovão Norte, Emídio Guerreiro, Firmino Pereira, Inês Domingos, Joana Barta Lopes, Jorge Moreira da Silva, José Carlos Barros, José Pedro Aguiar Branco, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Margarida Mano, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Teresa Leal Coelho and Sérgio Azevedo), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 4 abstentions abstentions (Berta Cabral, Duarte Filipe Marques, Odete Silva and Teresa Morais), 1 PS (António Cardoso) and 2 CDS-PP (A Rita Bessa and Teresa Caeiro).]] [[Upstairs of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u285	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u286	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u287	It is only to announce that I will make a statement of vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u288	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, I would like to confirm whether the final drafting waiver was also requested in respect of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft law No 43 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) the overall final vote was held recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u289	I confirm, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u290	Mr. President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u291	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u292	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u293	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Before we announce the results of the votes that were held in Chamber D. Maria, oral explanations of vote concerning draft resolutions 24 / XIII ( 1 ) take place. ( a ) ( PCP ), 28 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) ( BE) and 39 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), whose votes were held recently. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group, with the presentation and approval of its draft resolution No 24 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by reintroducing the right of railways to transport concessions, it wishes to point out here the importance of this decision of the Assembly of the Republic, which places a final point in the infamous provocation which the PSD/CDS-PP government made to railways and all the workers in the transport sector when it removed concessions and the right to transport. [[PCP applause.]] While giving billions of euros to the economic groups, they offended the workers and called them privileged, taking away their rights and inferring their lives. We also reaffirm here that it is worth fighting! The struggle of workers, the days held in Lisbon, the Enthronement, the Barreiro, throughout the country, in companies and workplaces, was a decisive factor that led us to this new political framework and to this decision that finally the Assembly of the Republic does justice to the workers in the transport sector. [[PCP, PS, BE, Greens and PAN applause.]] And here we would like to stress that, with our proposal, the text adopted sets out clear guidelines for the return of this right without discrimination, taking into account what was in force, complying with the law and collective bargaining in the transport sector. We will continue to intervene and fight and we will not forget, for example, the concrete requirement for the return of the reform complements. We reaffirm here our commitment and send a warm greeting to the workers, who have never lowered their arms and, once again, have shown that it is always worth fighting! [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u295	Mr Matias also spoke for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The replacement of rail transport concessions will be the replacement of a contract law withdrawn in 2013, at a time when the « management» of the PSD and the CDS-PP did not yet show the sad state of disintegration to which we are attending today. Contractual rights, I stress, and not privileges that railways in the active, retired and their families have been deprived, and even those who have resigned under the contractual condition of maintaining the right to transport. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u297	This replacement of rights has no expression in the accounts of companies and in the State budget, such as the Members. Members of the CDS and PSD know very well, because they have never been able to present the accounts of what companies, eventually, would save with this real theft to railways and their families. This replacement of rights contributes to the dynamism of local economies, such as the Enthronement, whose city I greet, in the person of the President of the Chamber, here present, of the remaining motorways and of all the railways. The replacement of these railway rights also helps to keep many villages alive from the interior, where many still have their roots, and it is, above all, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the repair of an injustice for those who worked or worked at the railway. The Left Block has voted in favour of the three draft resolutions which restore the concessions of railways, because we are for justice, against injustice, which we see—it is not illusionism, Mrs Deputies—the railways feel and therefore have fought so much against it over the past few years. And they won! [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u298	For a statement of vote too, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in the first instance, welcomes the fight of railway workers, the struggle of the pensioners of the railway sector and also the struggle of the autoarchs for whom the railway sector is very important, greeting all the railways and motorways present here, starting with Mr. President of the Municipal Council of the Replacement, Dr. Jorge Faria. The history of railway concessions dates back to the 19th century, being widespread throughout Europe. A government budget standard for 2013 extinguished this regime, harming people and workers, harming several areas of the country, damaging the development of some regions. After hearing and listening to the unions, the workers' representative organisations, the authorities involved in this problem, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group decided to support and vote favourably on all draft resolutions on this matter. Today, there are parliamentary conditions to restore this right to workers. We should not fall into populism or demagogy that are often placed on top of such measures. To value collective bargaining, to value the replacement of wages, to value the recovery of rights are principles of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u300	Mrs. Members, even before announcing the results of the votes that took place in Chamber D. Maria, it is necessary to make a correction which is not of any importance from the point of view of the final result, but is important for historical record. At the time of the vote of the motion for rejection No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 107 votes were announced in favour, of which 102 by electronic means and 5 were signalled to the Bureau by the respective Members. Ladies and gentlemen. It happens that one of the five Mrs. Members who signed their vote to the Bureau also voted electronically and therefore the motion did not have 107 votes in favour, but only 106 votes in favour, 122 votes against and 1 abstention. This is just to record the truth of the facts. I would therefore ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the results of the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the election of a Vice-Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, found the following result: they voted 226 Members and registered 134 votes 'yes', 82 white votes and 10 null votes. in this regard, it is considered elected, as Vice-Secretary of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira ( PS ). As regards the election of an effective member and an alternate member, as indicated by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, the following result was found: 226 Members voted, and 132 votes 'yes' were registered, 82 white votes and 12 null votes. in this regard, they are considered elected to the Board of Directors of the Assembly of the Republic, as effective member, Mrs Eurídice Pereira ( PS ) and, as alternate member, Mr Vitalino Canas ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-18.u302	Mrs. Members, as you know, have also been electing five members, proposed by the Assembly of the Republic, to the Council of State, having been presented to the election two lists which have been designated List A, proposed by the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP, and List B, proposed by the parliamentary groups of the PS, BE and the CFP. The following result was found: 226 Members voted, and 104 votes were recorded in List A, 116 votes in List B, 5 white votes and 1 vote in null. according to the applicable legal terms and the result obtained, the following candidates are declared elected for the Council of State: Carlos Manuel Martins do Vale César, Francisco José Pereira Pinto Balsamão, Francisco Anacleto Louçã, Adriano José Alves Moreira and Domingos Abrantes Ferreira. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our work today, so I must announce that the next plenary session will take place on 6 January 2016, Wednesday, beginning at 15 p.m. and will have the following agenda: political statements; assessment of petition No 513 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Submitted by Monica Sofia Correia Barbosa and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic that the presence of the father or companion in the cesareans programmed and considered at low risk be ensured in all units of the National Health Service where children are born; and assessment of petition No 402 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by the Community Centre for the Fifth of the Count, requesting a consensus from the Assembly of the Republic on the urgency of the construction of the home of the elderly of the Community Centre for the Fifth of the Count. Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, our work is closed. Although some of us have yet to meet at the Conference of the Presidents of Parliamentary Committees, which will take place next Tuesday, I wish everyone a good Christmas and a good year 2016. Thank you very much for your contribution to this session being held in the best possible ways. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 40 minutes.]]
