ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 290 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — lays down the basis for the legal regime for the disclosure and use of existing geological resources in the national territory, including those located in the national maritime area; motion for a resolution No 111 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on Maritime Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, signed in Ankara on 23 October 2014 which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein.os 817 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — VAT replacement of the restoration at the rate of 13 % ( PS ), 818 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of commissions, expenditure or other charges by the services provided under that account ( PCP ), 819 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring access by private companies to public water supply, sewerage and urban solid waste management ( CFP ), 820 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name « Union das Freguesias de Torres Vedras ( São Pedro, Santiago, Santa Maria do Castelo and São Miguel ) and Matacães », in the municipality of Torres Vedras, for « Santa Maria, São Pedro and Matacães » ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 821 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ensures public management of water supply, sanitation and solid waste ( BE ), 822 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminates commissions for early repayment and termination of the contract, also establishing the obligation and free issue of the distraction and declaration of settlement of the loan ( amendment to Decree-Law No 51 / 2007 of 7 March 2007, and to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ( BE ), 823 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the base account ( BE ), 824 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Returns the rate of VAT in the catering sector to 13 %( BE ), 825 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector ( amends Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December approving the Water Law, with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June 2012 ( The Greens ), 826 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Simplification and standardization of the commissioning of deposit accounts in order ( amends Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 454 / 91 of 28 December ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 827 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guarantees for credit borrowers to benefit from negative interest rates ( BE ). The following draft resolutions were added: paragraphs 1299 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend the residents of the Housing and Economic Construction Cooperation District of Workers in Asia, Setúbal District ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1300 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defend the future of CP Load ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1301 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Urgent works in IC1, in the section between Alcácer do Sal and Grándola ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1302 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Requalification of IP3 without introduction of tolls ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1303 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the VAT rate in the restoration sector at 13 %( The Greens ), 1304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By strengthening the intervention of primary health care in the fight against skin cancer ( PCP ), 1305 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Returns the VAT rate to food and drink services at 13 % ( PCP ), 1306 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Social Emergency Plan for the Aveiro District ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1307 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen human resources at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( PCP ), 1308 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — For the recognition of the social, economic and cultural value of the urban nuclei of the boreholes of the Formosa river and immediate suspension of the demolition of dwellings in Culatra, Hangares, Farol, Ancão peninsula and islands of the Formosa river ( PCP ), 1309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the maintenance of public management at the Fundão Hospital ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1310 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — End of permanent own housing penhoras ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1311 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of a national emergency programme for cultural heritage and use of European funds for its financing within the framework of the 2020 ( BE) and 1312 / XII strategy ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the suspension of the municipalisation of museums until a reassessment of their collections for the updating of classifications as national or municipal museums ( BE ), which falls to 8. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, there is also a report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication on the temporary suspension of Mr Semedo's mandate for a period not exceeding 90 days. The Commission's opinion is that the temporary suspension required by Mr. João Semedo should be authorised under Article 5 ( a ) ( 2 ). that of the Statute of Members for a period not exceeding 90 days, because the reason put forward by the honourable Member is justified and relevant, and that the vacancy resulting from the suspension of the mandate required by Mr. João Semedo should be filled by José Borges de Araújo de Moura Soeiro, with effect from 13 March 2015, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I therefore welcome Mr José Soeiro, also leaving Mr João Semedo with the wish for the greatest happiness while he is not with us. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the agenda, whose first item is filled with political statements, with the following order of speeches : PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE, The Greens and PSD. There are registered, in the order indicated by the honourable Members. Deputies João Paulo Correia, Rui Barreto, Paulo Sá, José Soeiro and Carlos Gonçalves. You have the floor, therefore, for a political statement, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group held its Parliamentary Days in Vila Nova de Gaia on 13 and 14 March, subject to the theme « Growing up with people; more investment, more inclusion». The visit to an incubation centre of ideas and companies allowed us to witness the efforts of Vila Nova de Gaia and its business fabric in job creation and professional qualification, despite the government's lack of support. The visit to a daycare centre, a social work financed by the PARES programme, allowed us once again to denounce the harsh socio-economic reality that affects a high percentage of Portuguese families, as well as to confirm the value of the investment made by the governments of the Socialist Party in expanding the social equipment network. The example of Vila Nova de Gaia breaks down the dichotomy between the right that manages well and the left that spends much, because in the face of a high indebtedness inherited from PSD / CDS management, the current City Hall responds with a set of rigorous management measures, but based on social policies, focused on the real challenges of the population, in areas such as education, inclusion, social protection and investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We heard the protest in one region, denouncing mass emigration, the increase in poverty and social exclusion, the increase in infant youth poverty and the blind cuts in social support. In the Port district, 44 000 beneficiaries have lost the RSI since the current government began its duties. The same happened with 24 % of the beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. It is serious that these cuts in the CSR and in the solidarity supplement for the elderly do not result from the fact that the beneficiaries have obtained employment or from improving their family income. Real unemployment in the port district today reaches 145 000 people, with 83,000 long-term unemployed. It is serious that social cuts are a mere budgetary option of the government, which confuses savings with cuts in social support. We heard the protest of a district against the degradation of health services. More than 100 000 users do not have a family doctor. We heard the protest of a region against emptying and closing public services of proximity. More than 200 employees from the social security district centre were released. We heard the protest in one region against the lack of support for corporate capitalisation and investment incentives. The Banco de Fomento is a promise that is slow to realize, with natural damage to businesses and job creation. We heard the protest of a region against the tackling of the public contest for the sub-concession of Metro do Porto and STCP, which will lead to the degradation of the public transport service in the Metropolitan Area of Porto. We heard the protest of a region against the successive postponement of works of impact to the local economy such as the IC35, the Trofa variant and the electrification of the Douro Line between Caíde de Rey and Marco de Canaves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the frightening economic-social portrait of the district is the portrait that can be done from any other region of our country. Over the past four years, the country has experienced an unparalleled social, economic and financial backwardness. The ideological obsession has profoundly marked the policies of this government. We have seen the dramatic increase in poverty: today there are 2 million and 700 000 Portuguese at risk of poverty, more than 450 000 in 2011. More than 570,000 children and young people are at risk of poverty, and this phenomenon is emphasized in single-parent families. When 25, 6% of children under the age of 17 live in families below the poverty line, cuts in social support accentuate the inequality of opportunities and brutally compromise the future of a considerable part of the new generation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The increase in inequality shows that the difference in incomes between the richest and the poorest has increased. In 2013 the richest 10 % had an income 11 times higher than the poorest 10 % when in 2010 the difference was only nine times higher. Real unemployment reaches 21% of the active population! Since 2011 more than 350 000 Portuguese have emigrated, with 133 000 young people, many of whom are licensed and to whom the country has not been able to offer conditions for the development of their professional life. For every passing day, 320 citizens emigrate, value comparable only to the 1960s! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the tragedy of families adds the worrying economic indicators. This year's tax burden will be the highest ever — 37% of GDP. Public debt will rise to 129 % of GDP. The economy falls 5, 5 %, with the real GDP of 2014 at the level of GDP in 2001. The number of business insolvencys at the end of 2014 was 63 % higher than 2011. Exports showed in 2014 the fifth lowest growth rate in the last 20 years and, according to the INE, are at a sharp slowdown as only 0, 9 % in January, compared with 6, 1 % in the same period last year. Investment fell to 80, to 15 % of GDP, the lowest in the European Union. The contracting of projects under Portugal 2020 amounting to EUR 25 billion that the Portuguese economy needs so much has not yet come out of the paper. If the economic and social situation has worsened, the daily instability caused by the government is increasingly unsustainable: the chaos in hospital emergencies and the chaos at the start of the school year, in addition to a large set of scams, such as the various transport competitions and the recent case of the VIP list of taxpayers. Only one government in a state of denial is that it cannot see the failure of its competence and its economic model. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government wanted to leverage and restructure the economy by the exponential contribution of net demand. But the government failed. It is not just the opposition parties; it is the IMF, the European Commission and the OECD. Even recently, the European Commission has warned that job creation should slow down and the unemployment rate will continue at very high levels. For the PS, it is very clear that the growth of the economy cannot be disconnected from the social condition of families and the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A poorer country has less conditions for economic development. The need to create sustainability conditions for Portuguese families and for the country's productive capacity has led the PS, contrary to what is accused by the majority, to present multiple proposals in Parliament. We proposed an increase in the prenatal allowance, the replacement of school passes, the extension of the social unemployment allowance for six months, the increase in the safeguard clause of the IMI, the suspension of the penhoras of own and permanent housing due to tax debts and the reduction of the intermediate VAT rate for restoration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All these proposals were rejected by government parties. By investing in the economy, we have proposed, among other things, the creation of a capitalisation fund, which allows for increasing the financial autonomy of Portuguese companies, financed by reimbursements from Community funds and visasgold, and we have also proposed the guarantee of fiscal neutrality between equity and other capitals, because there is no reason why the use of foreign capital is deductible in tax terms without the same happening with own capital. These proposals were ignored by the parties of the majority. Almost at the end of the legislature, it is very clear, as a result of the facts, that the recipe for austerity has failed. The ethics of expansionist austerity failed. The austerity policy did not make the country more competitive, did not increase the economy, increased public debt, increased unemployment and increased social inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government impoverished the country. The government dismantled the social state. The government has confused rigour with cuts of wages and pensions. The government has confused budget savings with cuts in social support. The Government has confused the reform of the State with the emptying and closing of the public services of proximity. Portugal needs a new horizon of hope, a path that reverses the current poverty dynamics and strengthens social protection. The Portuguese need a more competitive economy and a more just and supportive state. Portugal needs to grow with people, with more investment and more inclusion. The PS is the biggest reference to Portuguese confidence in the political alternative to government parties. The PS has the responsibility and ambition to build, with Portuguese and Portuguese, a different path, a path that faces the crisis but does not desist from the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u5	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members Adam Silva, PSD, Cecilia Meireles, CDS-PP, José Moura Soeiro, BE, and Jorge Machado, PCP. Mr João Paulo Correia will reply, together, firstly to the honourable Members. Mr Adam Silva and Mr Cecilia Meireles and then to the Members. Deputies José Moura Soeiro and Jorge Machado. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u6	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, first of all I congratulate the honourable Member and his parliamentary group on the parliamentary days of his party held in Vila Nova de Gaia. Let me begin with a powerful metaphor, which the leader of your party presented on parliamentary days, saying that the PS will present a physiotherapy program for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u7	They're the debt stoppers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u8	I liked this metaphor, Mr. Member: a physiotherapy program for the country! I thought, too, that you would bring us here some details of this physiotherapy program. But it is not surprising that anyone who "cut his legs" to the country now presents a physiotherapy programme as a solution. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u9	Mr President, you have forgotten the time when you 'cut your legs' in the country. But we must remember that time, when you left the country suspended over the abyss. And much of what you said here has much to do with this time: the time when you "cut your legs" to the country, the time when you left the country suspended on the abyss of a hard, very hard intervention programme, not to say even cruel. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u10	That is why, Mr President, the question I ask you is this: does he not recognise that, before the urgency of this programme, it was necessary, first of all, to rescue the country? Do you not recognise the efforts made by this government to put public accounts in order and to gain credibility at national and international level? Do you remember how important it was, first of all, to gain this assurance that the Portuguese could have a future? Apparently, you don't want to know about this. You want a physiotherapy program. Okay! So tell me, what are the physiotherapy exercises that are planned? Yeah, what are they? V. Exa will say: as for physiotherapy exercises, we will only present them on June 6th. Mr President, the unfortunate country may well be waiting here, with the « legs split», for you to present a physiotherapy programme! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u11	Would you like to conclude, Mr Adam Silva. We need to set a paradigm in the first request for clarification so that we do not prolong the debate for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u12	I therefore insist on the question, Madam President. Mr President, do you or do you not recognise that the current government has done extraordinary work, by rehabilitating the country's public finances, by building confidence in the country and, above all, by giving the Portuguese a future? This is the essential question, from which all the others come. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to respect the time limits — political declarations all involve many requests for clarification — in order to better set aside the time for debate and the agenda. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u14	Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate not only Mr João Paulo Correia but also the Socialist Party for choosing Vila Nova de Gaia and the Port district for their parliamentary days. Being also my district, I can't help but find a good choice and greeting. Unfortunately, I can no longer say the same thing about your speech. The truth is that the honourable Member has drawn what he has described, if I understand correctly, as a scary portrait of the country. Now, I would say that scary, scary is the lack of alternatives that you can see or, better, that you don't see in the PS speech. It is that of the main opposition party, which, theoretically, either being a government, was expected to say no more a concrete proposal but at least an idea, an alternative. The honourable Member makes a big speech about his parliamentary days, but he does not see a single proposal, a single alternative idea for the country. The gentlemen. Members do nothing more than criticize the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u16	And that has a meaning. It has a meaning which I think — to use the words of the honourable Member — particularly frightening. No one here defends, I suppose, that in Portugal you live in a perfect world. But we know how to look into the future and we know how to look into the present. And we know that, unlike the country you have linked, Portugal is now at a stage of economic growth. We know that, unlike the country you have left, Portugal is now in the process of reducing unemployment. And the thing that scares me the most, sirs. Members, it is that you have turned your back on those Portuguese who have hope, who, with merit, have learned to gain a better life and who, with merit and sacrifice, are fighting for a better life. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The gentlemen. Members have turned their backs on these Portuguese people and just want to go back to the past, making the same mistakes again, and without ever explaining the following: if your ideas, if your proposals and your governance were so good, why have they led the country to bankruptcy? If the recipe was so good, how could the result have been so bad? That's what you don't explain. What also leaves us with the frightening idea that they are planning, if ever they come to the government, to do exactly the same. Then when he says that both the IMF and the European Commission criticise the government, I always suspected that these were your secret gurus - it is not by any chance they called them to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u17	What we saw was the three parties extending the pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u18	But perhaps it is good, after all they have accused the government of being more troquist than the troika, they now have a sense of using this kind of argument.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u19	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u20	In conclusion, Madam President, I would like you to clarify to me whether the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party will have come to parliamentary times by chance. It is because he knows well – and he said it – in fact, in the port district as well, I believe that in Póvoa do Varzim, alongside Chinese investors – and he explained well that Portugal is much better now than in the time when you ruled us and made us all suffer from having to go, « hat in hand », asking for money from international partners to pay wages and pensions. [[Protests by PS MP Jorge Fão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u21	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u22	So perhaps your Secretary-General can also explain to the Socialist Party that the path he has to follow is quite different from the one he defends. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u23	Before giving the floor to Mr. João Paulo Correia to answer, I inform you that the Vice-President of the Parliament of Montenegro is in the diplomatic gallery, whom I welcome and to whom I would like to congratulate. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause, stand up.]] You now have the floor to answer, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u24	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Adam Silva and Mr Cecilia Meireles, whose interventions have a common denominator. It is that none of them contested the data I brought here, criticizing and denouncing the action of this government. Real GDP has returned a decade — this has not been denied by any of the interventions. Export growth has been back two decades — this was not denied by any of the interventions either. The investment returned three decades—it was also not contested by any of the interventions. And emigration reached numbers from the 1960s — which was not contested by any of the interventions either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is high time — we are six months from the end of the mandate of this government — the PSD and the CDS take on the failure of this government, the failures It is time to apologize to the country and the Portuguese for failing to achieve the objectives they have proposed and promised at the time of the elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, Mr Adam Silva, it is necessary to rehabilitate public debt, which has increased with you in government, to rehabilitate employment, which you have destroyed over the past four years, to reduce poverty, which has increased during this government, to rehabilitate public health, the National Health Service, and to rehabilitate public school, where you have disinvested in an obsessive way, within your ideological agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u25	But how? Say how!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u26	We need to rehabilitate investment and we need to bring back to Portugal the 350 000 Portuguese who emigrated during the four years of your governance. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, would you like to answer one question: where for the taxpayer's party? Where was the CDS when the PS presented the proposal to maintain the IMI safeguard clause? Where was the taxpayer's party, the CDS, when the PS proposed in the Assembly the suspension of the penhoras of their own and permanent dwellings for tax debts? The taxpayer's party is gone! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They promised in the election campaign to defend taxpayers and when they come to the government, when they are challenged to show this conviction, they reject the taxpayers' defence proposals. Then I would also like to say that Portugal is different; no matter what, six months are left for the next elections and for the end of this government's term of office! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u27	Ah! They are 'tachs' what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u28	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, to whom I welcome again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are of encouragement and respect for my comrade John Semedo, who I know we all want him to recover quickly. [[General applause.]] Thank you very much! Mr. João Paulo Correia, I welcome the stay of the Socialist Party in the district of Porto and accompany the diagnostic portrait it makes. The Port district has been particularly punished by impoverishment and austerity policies: reduction of the average wage; increase of unemployment, with 71 % long-term unemployed; increase of poverty, which is particularly shocking in a district where there is waste of potential. I would also like to tell you that there are examples of fights that give us hope. Even today, Efacec's workers resumed a strike, for a minimum of justice, in a company where the administrator's salary is 44 times higher than that of the worker, who makes the company's wealth. It was important that in this fight there was the concrete solidarity of all the members of the district or of the workers. The workers of Unicer joined together to ensure the integration of a precarious worker and made a strike that was victorious. It would have been important to have the concrete solidarity of all the members of the district. I am also referring to today's struggle for public transport. See what is happening with the granting to private individuals of the STCP and the emptying of the company with the reduction of 329 workers, which means the degradation of the service for users. It would be important for this concrete solidarity to exist on the part of all the members of the district. I also refer to what is done today in the networks to combat poverty, in the self-organization of homeless people or resistance in the field of scientific research, where theimosia and the passion for knowledge will ensure that some projects are not interrupted, despite the cuts in the scholarships. Mr President, today, more than ever, the local scale, the national scale and the European scale are absolutely interconnected. Port problems will not only be solved with a local action in Porto. It was important, therefore, to hear something left-wing coming from the PS about what today, strangling the Country and Europe, also strangulates the Port. I am talking about austerity, of what guarantees the continuation of austerity, of the budget treaty, of the debate on debt at national and European level, of solidarity in Porto, the country and Europe needs to exist among all those who believe that austerity is not a solution, that the budget treaty is not a solution and that the problem of debt needs to be resolved in order to make the country grow and therefore to solve the problems of the district. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u30	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting Mr. João Paulo Correia and the fact that the Socialist Party has held its parliamentary days in the district of Porto. Indeed, the set of problems that have been identified are not new, they are old problems that result from options from various governments and, essentially, from the great options stipulated in the Socialist Party's PECs and in the troika, PS, PSD and CDS-PP. Therefore, characterization corresponds to truth. A number of problems have been raised, but we must also identify those responsible for the situation in which the district of Porto is located. contrary to what the honourable Members say. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP, the problems of the country, and the particular district of the port are not resolved; on the contrary. I wanted to focus on the question I want to ask you about the solutions that the Socialist Party proposes for the district of Porto and the country. The CFP has a set of proposals and solutions. With regard, for example, to the poverty policy, considering that there was a significant increase in poverty, given that cuts in social income of inclusion and in the solidarity of elderly people, which he referred to in his intervention, result from the resource condition created by the Socialist Party, taken and taken further by the PSD and the CDS-PP, the CFP proposes to eliminate the condition of recourse as a fundamental condition for access to these subsistence benefits. What does the Socialist Party understand about this matter? As regards the unfair distribution of income, the CFP has repeatedly proposed the increase of wages and pensions and changes to labour legislation which enables wages to be valued through the rights of those who work. What does the Socialist Party say on this matter? With regard to investment and the attack on public services, it is important to bear in mind that this attack is old and results from different options from different governments and, on this matter, the CFP also presented solutions. I wanted to hand over to the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party a draft resolution submitted by the Portuguese Communist Party that creates a social emergency plan for the Port district and that has had the following vote: when the PS is in the Government votes against the project that creates the social emergency plan for the Port district, when the PSD and the CDS-PP are in the Government vote against this plan. The project contains a wide range of solutions about the problems that affect populations in the district of Porto. The CFP has presented a wide range of solutions to investment problems, social equipment, social benefits and that have not earned positive responses in recent years by the parties that have governed, or rather, our country. That is what I wanted to focus on, asking what solutions we can find. The CFP presents itself not only to make the diagnosis and the political struggle to this majority, which has de-governed our country and has taken very negative measures with regard to the interests of the population, but also presents concrete proposals and solutions, on which we wanted to hear the opinion of the Socialist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u32	To reply, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u33	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr. José Soeiro and Mr. Jorge Machado, drawing attention to the following: it is curious that whenever the PCP questions the PS, in his speech, is placed next to the parties on the right in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's not from now on, Mr. Deputies. Back in 2011, this was the discourse that the PCP used to put itself next to the PSD and CDS-PP to suck down the PEC 4 and call the troika to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u34	Look at the PASOK speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u35	Therefore, the PCP is recovering this speech, it is solidifying this political position to stand next to the parties on the right to fight the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also record that neither the PCP nor the Left Block have challenged a single fact that was advanced by the Socialist Party. The PS was in the district of Porto, heard and contacted the social reality, knew it and brought the economic-social indicators that characterize the district of Porto and no party contested them. It is true that the government has marked the political agenda for the refusal with the trapping of the Port Metro and STCP competition. It is true that the government is slow to implement the promotion bank, which is largely lacking in the liquidity of our companies in the North, as is the need for job creation. It is also true that this Government has increased unemployment, poverty, has cut into social support in a blind way, in unemployment benefit, in the CSR, in solidarity with the elderly, i.e. this government has created a social drama in the Port district. But austerity has failed, it is true. The PS has repeatedly announced, over these four years, that the revenue of expansionist austerity would fail, would bring serious consequences to the economy and to the social fabric of our country. It is not with emergencyist programmes that solve social problems; it is with policies of solidarity. Well, I know the PCP's making proclamations. He never had the opportunity to rule or aspire to rule the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u36	That's the speech on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u37	And it is true that it is easy to criticize solidarity policies. When the PS is in government it never has the support of the PCP. I would like to conclude by saying that there is a clear attempt by the parties on the right, the PSD and the CDS to rewrite the history of the paternity of the external aid program to our country. There's a father who's not incognito. Economist Eduardo Catroga stated on 3 May 2011 that the negotiation of the external aid programme to Portugal was essentially influenced by the PSD and resulted in better measures that go deeper than the so-called PEC 4. But this isn't around. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister said on 6 June 2011 that he would abide by the agreement and go further. Pedro Passos Coelho undertook to comply with the measures of the External Aid Memorandum and said he would be surprised going further than what was imposed by the troika. Pedro Passos Coelho also said on October 25, 2011 : « We will only leave this situation impoverishing». This was the only promise the Prime Minister had made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u38	The political declaration by the PS is thus concluded. We have moved on to the political declaration of the CDS-PP, to which Mr Rui Barreto speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in better condition today than in 2011. I know that, in the face of the enormous constraints that we have been subjected to, the perception of improvements is not yet widespread. But it is a fact that a set of indicators prove that. Otherwise, after years of economic recession, Portugal returned to growth, plus 0, 9 %, in 2014, and positive growth forecasts are 1, 5 %, as early as 2015. After we reached at the beginning of 2013 close to 18 % unemployment, today the rate stands at 13 %, 5 %. Today we are also more present in the world, with the growing exports, with more companies to export and with greater weight in Portuguese GDP. Tourism, the main export activity, is the spotless spring in growth, not to speak either in agri-food or agro-industrial. Portugal has again been credible and today has the lowest interest rates of loans in the last 15 years, but we are not satisfied. We have huge challenges ahead. However, I cannot fail to note this trend. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for some time, many have criticised the alleged mild position of the Portuguese Government in Brussels and therefore the facts contradict those who have supported the idea that Portugal and the Government of the Republic have not been firm in Brussels. I am giving some examples that contradict these criticisms. First example: against the recommendations of some international organizations, the national minimum wage was increased to about half a million Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u41	Secondly, as a Madeirense, I cannot ignore that Madeira has received, in these days, excellent news, news which well needed to give a new hope to the Madeirans and the port-saintenses, a news in which this government has an indisputable merit. I am talking about the new regime for the International Business Centre of Madeira, approved in Brussels, which will give new dynamics to the Portuguese square, allowing, according to data revealed by the Madeira Development Society itself, the concessionaire of the International Business Centre, to double tax revenues within five years. The conclusion of the newly approved fourth incentive scheme, which still lacks adaptation to Portuguese law, offers competitiveness and predictability up to 2027. These conditions are similar to those that other low tax areas offer in countries such as Luxembourg, Malta, Cyprus and the Canary Islands, belonging to the Spanish territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u43	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, I do not think it is necessary to remember the need for Madeira today to increase its tax revenue without being due to the increase in taxes on businesses and families, which today are suffocated by an excessive tax burden. The tax burden can and should be reviewed as soon as the Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme is closed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the merit is to be given to those who have it. It would be wrong for me - as a Maderian and as a Member elected by the circle of Madeira - not to acknowledge the merit of this Government of the Republic, which was able to reopen the negotiations with the European Commission and which managed to take them to the right port, opening a window of hope for that region. It is also my duty to recognize the merit of the regional authorities and the Madeira Development Society ( SDM ), which has worked hard since the creation of the International Business Centre to keep it active and competitive, even in the face of all the constraints it has to face. Finally, and no less important, I stress the remarkable commitment of all the workers of the International Business Centre, represented by their professional association, who have never, under any circumstances, lowered their arms and always sought, in conjunction with the SDM, to raise awareness among Madeirans and other national citizens about the importance of the Centre as a tool for generating employment and as a nuclear element to diversify the regional economy. I remind you that around 3000 workers work in the Centre, mostly specialized technical frameworks. Otherwise, they would have to leave the region to seek sustenance in other places. Perhaps, in other places, Portuguese competitors! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the roles played by this Government of the Republic and the previous Government are absolutely contrasting and it is essential to remember them. I recall that in the time of Eng. Socrates and the Executive of the PS, the Portuguese State unilaterally broke the negotiations with Brussels concerning the new framework of incentives of the International Business Centre, placing, without ever having explained the reasons, the survival of the Centre at risk. [[CDS-PP applause.]] They were, yes, lost years, years of backwardness, years of struggle for survival, years of anxiety, years of business departure, years of loss of jobs, years of fear and even years of fear. Why did the Government of the Eng Socrates and the PS take it that way, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? There are questions to which only history can answer. One day, someone more qualified than we will certainly make the history of these years and, on that day, will understand the motivations of the socialist executive. For now, no one understands them, much less the citizens of Madeira and Porto Santo, the most disadvantaged, among all Portuguese, with the situation then created. We hope, now, that the PS has realized its importance and that for the future we walk together in defense of what is ours. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the International Business Centre includes the International Register of Madeira Ships ( MAR ), which also has excellent news. In 2014 the MAR increased significantly in respect of the number of registered vessels with the average age of the same descent considerably. As a result of this growth, the Register is already the fourth largest in Europe and, if some constraints are resolved, it may be the largest in Europe in the short and medium term. I recall, for example, the ratification in this Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the Executive, of the signing of the Maritime Labour Convention ( MLC ), which contributed to the competitiveness of the Sea. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the MAR is essential to renew the Portuguese merchant navy and to give attention to the country in international forums. It is an important instrument in the strategy for the oceans, which this government has launched at such a good time. It is also an instrument for job creation and giving new opportunities to young people who opt for careers linked to the sea and navigation, in particular young people from the School of Nautical Infante D. Henrique and other schools that can be created. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Government, the Maderians and all Portuguese must recognize the merit of the duty to be met in respect of the International Business Centre of Madeira. The fulfilment of this duty will allow the Region to increase its tax revenue, which, depending on the decision of the future regional government, may contribute to defraying the tax burden on families and businesses in the region today. I'm done, saying that together we're doing better for all of us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u44	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares, Hugo Velosa, Antonio Filipe and Jacinto Serrão. Mr Rui Barreto informed the Bureau that he wanted to answer in a series of two questions. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u45	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, I am sure you will know, and I do not think it is anything else, which has already been discussed twice in the Conference of Leaders in what way the Assembly of the Republic would be free from the temptation to join the Madeira election campaign. Curiously, the CDS had this temptation and it couldn't escape. Although the election campaign began — it was last Sunday — a political declaration by the CDS on the subject came soon. It's not weird, I can't say it's weird, but I have to say it was predictable. Even in the face of that clear and unequivocal assumption of the CDS and the majority, we have even unanimously withdrawn schedules from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira just so that there is no intervention by the Assembly of the Republic in this matter. Even so, the CDS was unable to resist and had to bring this issue to the debate. Well, you did it the way you wanted to, but at least that truth is unforgettable. You will say that you did not want to campaign, but just listen to the more than 8 minutes of your political statement and connect to that the context in which it is made — in the full electoral campaign of the Autonomous Region — to realize that it is all related and to understand how this political declaration is done with what is on the ground in Madeira. Mr President, I should like to ask you, then, direct and unequivocal questions on this matter. I have heard you talk about the Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and I have heard you say that this government has fulfilled and helped Madeira, so I have to ask you the following: then and the taxes to double that the Madeirans and the Saints had to pay? And the dual austerity that came by the hand of the regional government, but also by the hand of the national government, which withdrew rights, increased taxes, reduced the quality of public services, both health and education? Didn't you mention this in your political statement? On this matter, does it say only that the national government has done what it wants? Oh, my God! No, you didn't, sir! Not even the national government did what it was competing for, nor did the regional government do what it was competing for! The worst of this is that it was not enough to go along with, as is done by the two governments, the PSD/CDS on the continent and the local PSD, to impose austerity on the people... and they joined together to extend the duration of the Financial Adjustment Program. Translated by kids, it means more time for more taxes. That is exactly what has been achieved. And you say, Mr Deputies, in this House, what did this happen anyway? Oh, my God! After all, defend who? The Madeirans? It can't be, of course! It is that they know well how austerity has hurt them, they know how it has come there in a double way, by the regional government and by the national government. I have one more question to ask you, honourable Member: is this lack of memory of the CDS already to see if it can, in the Autonomous Region, be achieved in the same way that at the national level formed government with the PSD, give here a ham, a handover to the PSD until after the day 29 there is a prospect of a right-wing majority being transformed into regional government PSD / CDS? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u46	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen watching the times. There was a distraction from the Bureau over time control. Mr Hugo Velosa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u47	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, of course, would like to congratulate you on bringing to the plenary a matter which is fundamental to the future of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Do not worry about what Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares said and what the Communist Party will say, because we know that they did not want the Free Zone of Madeira to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u49	It has been fundamental for the region and for the Madeirans and will be fundamental in the future, whether they want or not, for the region and for the Madeirans.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u50	But has anyone talked about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u51	The problem we have to mention is that there was a party in this Parliament who, when it was government, wanted to end the Free Zone of Madeira. This party is the Socialist Party and, with its governments, it almost ended the Free Zone because they stopped negotiating because they did not negotiate ceilings because millions of euros of tax revenue came from Madeira because there are many companies that have ceased to be in Madeira and went to other areas of the European Union to the detriment of Portugal. Madeira is Portugal and at that time the Government of the Republic was against the Region and automatically against Portugal. From there, fortunately, the Free Zone regime has entered the line and it is not late. [[PSD applause.]] It must be mentioned — the commitment of the regional government, local authorities, the Madeira Development Society itself and the Government of the Republic to this matter. Mr Rui Barreto, let me tell you that who has accompanied these problems, as I have in recent years, knows that it has not always been so. That is why I would like to say one word: the clear commitment and the honourable Member will not deny it, from the Prime Minister in this matter. It is that if the fourth regime were not now approved, the free zone of Madeira and the region would be incalculable damage in the near future. I leave this word here, because it's due. But this problem is not yet solved, in order to resolve it, it is necessary to put into the law the matters which have already been approved by the committee — and I am with the honourable Member in this regard — the fact that it is good that everyone understands that the free zone of Madeira can only put these matters into force when they are law, but in order to be law, there must be commitment from the Government of the Republic. That is why, and this is the point I would like to ask whether you agree with me that the commitment of the Government of the Republic to the free zone of Madeira effectively have new companies and be competitive with the companies that have already left for other European squares is essential. I shall finish by congratulating the honourable Member on bringing about a fundamental and crucial matter, and it is natural for the left to say otherwise, for the future of the region. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u52	To reply, Mr Rui Barreto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u53	Madam President, I welcome you. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and, my fellow, Hugo Velosa, on the issues that have raised me. First of all, I must say, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, and I understood your initial note, that I am holding my duties, as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, and I am maintaining all my freedom to address matters which I consider to be of the most fundamental relevance, as many of which I have mentioned here, on tourism, on exports, on growth, on minimum wages, on a subject in which we have now had good news, which will allow a new incentive scheme by 2027. What is it that makes me unable to do this, sir? Oh, my God! I did not campaign, Mr President, I wanted to take the matter there! But in the course of my duties as a Member, I have been discussing Portugal, I have been discussing matters in the country and I have not done as Members of the Left Block, which often in other countries, in particular Greece, have come here to make political statements. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u54	Wood isn't Crete!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u55	Mr President, I understand the inconvenience that a news of this nature brings to the Left Block. The Left Block has always been against the International Business Centre,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u56	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u57	... moreover, I don't like to repeat things, but often contributed to negative campaigns of the Madeira International Business Centre. Your container, in the region, Roberto Almada and Dr. Francisco Louçã...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u58	Ah! He's always campaigning!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u59	... contributed to the creation, often, of a negative idea of what the International Business Centre is. Fortunately, there too, the Left Block has made its way and I think today is no longer as critical as in the past, and some pedagogy has helped it. That is why, from the rostrum, I would like to point out a very relevant aspect to an autonomous region which is facing today, as you said, with a double austerity. I have mentioned several times that Madeirans are those who pay more taxes in Portugal. In addition to the debt of the Socialist Party, there was also left a debt by the Regional Government and a perfect cocktail was formed to create a double austerity. So, responsibly, we need to find solutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u60	You don't want to pay the debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u61	...and, in that sense, I must also congratulate the good resolutions so that we can relieve the tax burden, which that people so well need. Mr. Hugo Velosa, we, in this matter, and you know, we've never zigged... [[PS laughter]] ... we have always been firm in defense of the International Business Centre, unlike the Socialist Party, which abandoned this negotiation in May 2010, by its then Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Sergio Vasques, and contributed to its difficult resolution, since it was necessary for this Government to notify the European Commission, in December 2011, in an extremely complicated negotiation. Therefore, it is also our duty to recognize now those who have been firm in defense of the International Business Centre and those who have been torpedoing and, often, to make the person who is not only interested in Madeira but also in the country. Today, it is up to me to do this, to appreciate this, because I understand that a Member must recognize when there is merit and today the merit must be recognised. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u62	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u63	Mr President, Mr Rui Barreto, we understand the following: the honourable Member has all the legitimacy to intervene in this House of the Republic and to say what he fully understands; now, his speech, with all constitutional legitimacy, has no ethics. And there is no ethics, because you know perfectly well that it was even discussed at the Leaders Conference on the possibility of scheduling initiatives on Madeira, that the Assembly of the Republic should not take part in the electoral campaign in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. All parliamentary groups agreed with this, there were no agendas on matters related to the Autonomous Region of Madeira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u65	...because this could interfere with the election campaign. Furthermore, Mr President, the PCP Parliamentary Group has recently made long trips to Madeira and has brought from there many concerns, from now on, with the dual austerity imposed by the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic, which you here praised so much, but also concerns about the lack of reconstruction of many destroyed dwellings during the 2010 storms, and concerns about a very serious social and labor situation in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, particularly in the hotel and tourism sector, with unacceptable job insecurity levels. But, Mr President, we respect what has been agreed between all parliamentary groups and we believe that the Madeira election campaign must be carried out in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and should not take place here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u66	It's even illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u67	Of course, you had to pay a tribute to your bank and to the country's ruling coalition: "Well, you speak, but you can only praise the government, you can't criticize the government." And it is extraordinary that the Government deserves so much praise from you when you did not even vote in favour of the State budget for 2015 that this Government proposed to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u69	More: I am convinced, and the honourable Member will be lying to me if not so, that you just didn't vote against, because you didn't know that you were the Members. Members of the PSD/Madeira were going to vote against and, therefore, the Member was caught with one foot in the air and only abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u70	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u71	Therefore, Mr President, I repeat, you have all the legitimacy to say what you mean — a Member who freely exercises his mandate — but we must not fail to tell you that it is a huge breach of loyalty for what has been settled between all the banks, including with a strong intervention by the Government in this regard, and a total lack of ethics in the parliamentary relationship to attempt to instrumentalize the Assembly of the Republic to intervene in the electoral campaign of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which all other parliamentary groups have refrained from doing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u72	Mr Jacinto Serran has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u73	Madam President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u74	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u75	Mr President, I would just like to clarify an error which is being created here, in fact, was created more elegantly by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and, therefore, I do not understand at this time that I have to make any request for an appeal to the Bureau, but now it is speaking in a lack of ethics and disloyalty and it seems to me that we have obviously strong that I cannot let go without giving an explanation. What was agreed at the Conference of Leaders—and the President, of course, will remember—is going to be left aside matters of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u76	And not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u77	... because it made no sense to debate them, since the Assembly was already in mere management acts, and did not allow the scheduling of a draft resolution or a bill, finally, of a legislative initiative of the Socialist Party. What happened here is completely different,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u78	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u79	... that is, it is a political statement by a Member on economics, where he speaks in a matter of interest to the electoral circle for which he was elected. If this is not the case, then we have reached an understanding here: from this day onwards, any Member of Parliament prevented from making regional political declarations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u80	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u81	So I think it is necessary to take some care, when we use words as « disloyalty», because there is no disloyalty. There was no schedule of any legislative initiative and that was all that was combined. In the use of his freedom, Mr Rui Barreto, who, moreover, had been climbing long ago to make a political declaration, spoke of economics, talked about tourism, spoke about the national minimum wage and understood to speak of the International Centre for Madeira Affairs. I think it's a national matter and it's important,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u82	It's boy-spertism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u83	... if the PCP does not understand it, it has every right not to understand it, but it seems to me that whoever makes our political statements is still the CDS and not the PCP. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u84	Mr Nuno Magalhães, as there are inscriptions for the use of the word, I believe that with regard to this request to the Bureau, I will interpret your intervention as a defense of the honor of the bench. Can I interpret that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u85	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u86	But there'll be a dialogue here and I'll give the ladies a chance. Members to express themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u87	Madam President, may I...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u88	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u89	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u90	Then I will give the floor to all for the same purpose. You have the floor, Mrs Inês de Medeiros, but I ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u91	I shall be very brief, Madam President, indeed, on the conduct of the work and on the decision to schedule this political statement. Obviously, the PS would never want to limit any freedom of the Member, individually or even at the level of the bench, to make political statements on the issues to be understood, but since Mr Nuno Magalhães even here addressed the case of the Socialist Party's draft resolution, which is not legislative and has no executive power, it is a mere resolution, I remember, that at the Conference of Leaders, the Government, even had such care with the words that Mr Nuno Magalhães now refers to and even spoke in total illegality, in a revolutionary spirit in illegality. That is why we are very surprised that this political statement by the honourable Member, which obviously has all the legitimacy to do so, has been scheduled precisely for today at this time, given that I recall the consensus which has been created, there, yes, in this Conference of Leaders, and all those who have been there have been witnesses of this consensus—which led the Socialist Party to, not wanting to go against the will of the majority, agree willingly to withdraw its draft resolution, precisely to respect that consensus. So I just wanted to say, on behalf of the Socialist Party's board, that we are also somewhat surprised by the timing of this political statement, even if it is on an individual basis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u92	Mr António Filipe also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u93	Mr President, without questioning, as I have said, the constitutional and political legitimacy of any Member to say what he understands in the exercise of his mandate, I will only read the summary of the Conference of Leaders where the possibility of scheduling an initiative was discussed which was to be addressed to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It reads as follows: « (...) The PSD Parliamentary Group recalled the previous understanding of the Conference in order not to schedule the legislative initiatives of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira during a period of election campaign. For the most part, the initiatives of the Parliamentary Groups and Members dealing with the Autonomous Region should not be discussed in plenary during the campaign, on the grounds that this debate is being put into effect for the purposes of the campaign." This was the PSD position. And the parliamentary leader added: "The Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs considered that it would indeed be advisable for Parliament not to turn into an election campaign stage." This is the sum of the Conference of Leaders! The gentlemen. Members can do whatever they want, but this is what has been agreed between all parliamentary groups and the government and therefore your attitude remains with you. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u94	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor for an inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u95	You're going to deny Luís Montenegro!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u96	Madam President, my appeal to the Bureau also concerns the conduct of the proceedings. In fact, what Mr.António Filipe has reproduced ibisverbs was what happened at the Conference of Leaders, where, moreover, all parliamentary groups have announced, including the author of the initiative, that we should refrain from bringing legislative initiatives that would collide with what will be the legitimate and democratic choices of the people of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u97	So tomorrow we will have a parliamentary debate on this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u98	A very different thing, Madam President, is the political and parliamentary debate here on the occasion of political declarations. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u99	The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party cannot, nor should it, wish to assert itself in the right to choose the subjects of the political declarations that each one of the Members has. Ladies and gentlemen, do it. Madam President, I put a rhetorical question: when we approach the legislative elections that are coming here, will the Portuguese Communist Party abstain from this plenary campaign? [[PCP protests.]] I don't think so, Madam President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u100	The Assembly is closing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u101	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can imagine, the Conference of Leaders has established a formal criterion; hence it is very difficult to establish the limits. We know what it is! And, therefore, the Bureau cannot trade more than this. This is not a legislative initiative; the rest is at the heart of the democratic debate. All of you. Members have explained their reasons, so I cannot go any further but listen to you in this matter. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us continue with the questions to Mr Rui Barreto. To that end, Mr Jacinto Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u102	Madam President, I wish to regret this situation which is happening at this time in the Assembly of the Republic because there is indeed a violation of a compromise or an understanding by virtue of the will of the majority (the PSD and the CDS ) which, in the Conference of Leaders, has made it impossible to schedule an initiative of the Socialist Party recommending to the Government of the Republic — and, as I know, the rescue remains in force, regardless of the elections of Madeira, regardless of the future government! — to take initiatives to resolve the serious problem of interest in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. The CDS has resolved to violate that commitment. The Madeirans will know how to draw the proper illusions due to this opportunism of a political-party electoralist nature. By the way, I would begin by asking a question about the initiative that the Socialist Party has put forward. The Government of the Republic is demanding much higher interest on the financing line it has granted to the Autonomous Region of Madeira than those it is achieving, as a result of the ECB's policies, by financing on the markets. The question that arises is whether, in fact, the honourable Member, who is from the CDS and is part of the Government, believes it legitimate that the Government of the Republic, of its party colour, continues to demand from Madeirans, a region which is under rescue, higher interest, more than EUR 350 million, than those which can be achieved on the markets at international level. Another issue that I would like to see clarified concerns your intervention. The honourable Member has come to give a speech — in fact, not only the CDS / Madeira but also here, at national level, they have already used us to this — in order to shake the responsibilities of the country's government, which has reflections — and in what way! — in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. The gentlemen. Members of other opposition parties have already referred to a set of measures of the Government of the Republic, of its party colour, Mr. Member, which are highly criticised by the CDS / Madeira and by Mr. Member in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but here Mr. The honourable Member here has no courage to criticise, as is done in the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the Macedonians to hear, the policies of his Government, which have done so much wrong to Madeira's economy, which have so badly damaged Madeira's finances, which have so much harmed Madeira's economy. You know very well that at national level the policies of the Government of the Democratic Social Party and the CDS are disastrous and chaotic. They caused chaos in health, education, justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u103	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u104	...are an authentic disaster for the economy and for the social domain. As you know very well, they have provoked a gigantic army of unemployed, migrants and poor not only in the country but also in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, where all these difficulties are felt to double, as a result of the policies of the PSD/CDS government. So, honourable Member, the question that arises is why this speech, in which the CDS / Madeira has two sides: one speech there and another speech, different here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u105	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u106	I will now conclude, Madam President, but I would ask for the same tolerance that has been given to previous interventions. Madam President, just a few more seconds to finish my speech. I would therefore say that Mr Rui Barreto says that it is necessary to lower VAT and here he approves government policies that increase the VAT of the restaurant to 23 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u107	You have to finish. That is why you are not making an intervention but a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u108	I shall finish, Madam President, by telling the honourable Member that he is against these policies that annul the tax differential in the Autonomous Region of Madeira and here enables the government's proposals to cancel the tax differential.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u109	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u110	The honourable Member says that he is against the failure of the Republic's Government to comply with the law of means and here he is silent or, at least, condescending to all policies. Sir, why is this two-sided party? Perhaps because of electoral issues, because the PSD and the CDS are preparing to experience the same right coalition in the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u111	Would you like to conclude, Mr Jacinto Serran.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u112	But the Madeirans are careful and will not let this two-sided speech pass by the electorate in the next elections on March 29, as you know very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn 2-minute questions into interventions of almost 5 minutes, so there are rules of organization. The enthusiasm in the debate is good, but there are organizational rules that we must respect, even for the balance of the debate, a reason for balancing the time of questions and their answers. I have no other way but to make this appeal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Mr Rui Barreto to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to tell Mr António Filipe of the Portuguese Communist Party that what you just read, the report of the Conference of Leaders, speaks on a legislative initiative. I did not present here any legislative initiative, I made a political statement on national issues, because whether or not Madeira is also part of the national territory, and it includes two subjects which were negotiated by the Portuguese Government in Brussels. So, I have this legitimacy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u115	You don't need to apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u116	They're not excuses, that's how it is! You should apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u117	...the honourable Member knows that I have this legitimacy and that the statement I made has nothing to do with the path or drift I wanted to leave here. But if you think I've been here making a campaign, I invite you to Madeira and you'll see the content of my statements in the campaign...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u118	I don't need you to invite me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u119	...and you'll have the notion of the difference between the interventions I make here and the ones I do there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u120	Nor do I doubt it must be very different!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u121	However, I would like to tell you — in fact, he does not mean, but he knows — that the consequence of the adjustment plan here, in Portugal, and that it has been extended to autonomous regions is a consequence of the debt of governments of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u123	The adjustment plan, the conditionality, what was imposed to cancel budgetary imbalances and that we had for three years but that we were released on May 17, 2014 was a consequence of the adjustment plan signed by the Socialist Party, to which an adjustment plan was added in Madeira. I would like to give you an example, Mr President: why does not the tax differential persist in one region and in another? You know why! Because the Regional Government of Madeira had to ask for a ransom and when asking for a ransom it had to be subject to this conditionality which was also imposed here at national level. What I'd like to see was that in Madeira we had the fiscal differential. We live in an autonomous region, and in Porto Santo is still worse, as you know, because there are times. So what we have to do is find measures and solutions so that we can return this tax differential and the quality of life to the people who have already had it in the past. In reply to Mr Jacinto Serrão, I must say that I always take the consequences and I have never voted in favour of any State budget. I am very comfortable with that, and you know that. The honourable Member is that at other times and at other times when diplomas were approved in the Republic that were detrimental to Madeira and Madeirans were placed on one side, and the Madeirans know that. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Deputy, the chaos? Oh, my God! The chaos was the PS having ruled for so long! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u124	Don't squat! The honourable Member knows what positions we have had, and that I myself, in fact, had very firm positions, but that the honourable Member — to whom I value — did not have in some circumstances, and I should have had them. [[Protests by PS MP Jacinto Serra.]] As far as the matter is concerned, I will reply: I agree — I myself have already taken the lead — on debt exchange operations to lower interest rates from the adjustment plan. But he also knows that for the 1500 million that were obtained by the 23-year loan, depreciation will take place from January 2016, but it is up to the future Regional Government of Madeira, irrespective of which party color it is and who it is, to request the Government of the Republic to negotiate it. Now, I do not forget one thing, Mr : is that in 2011 the interest rates of loans to 1, 5 and 10 years were above two digits and today are 0, 5 %, 1, 5 % and less than 2 %, 10 years. This is also due to the action of this government to enable what you are now asking for. What you are now recognising is the effort that has been made by the Portuguese and this government to lower interest rates and, certainly, at the request and request of the future government, to lower the charges for Madeirans as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u125	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u126	I have no doubt that this will also be one of the first measures that the future government will have to reduce, too, the charges for all Madeirans. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u127	The political declaration of the CDS-PP is concluded here. We have moved on to the political declaration of the CFP. Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ideological options of the Government and the majority PSD/CDS that supports it can be condensed in the popular expression « two weights and two measures ». For the big capital, for the money lords, all the facilities. For the workers, for the people, gross sacrifices. All the sacrifices imposed in recent years by the PEC and the Troika Programme have fallen, and continue to fall, on the workers and the people. On the back of the medal, the great capital, national and transnational, was, and continues to be, the beneficiary of this policy, taking advantage of increasing shares of national wealth. Two weights and two measures: wages are cut to continue to pay interest on a public debt that does not stop to grow; pensions are confiscated, but charges with public-private partnerships continue to increase; Portuguese are faced with gross increases in IMI, but large companies and economic groups pay less and less taxes; the government is in trouble with those who have small tax debts, but creates a VIP list, leaving it to be clear whether all citizens or only some are entitled to the protection of their tax data, if all or only some are subject to measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The latest developments confirm the existence of a VIP list of taxpayers. It took only a week, just a week, for the Prime Minister's statements here in Parliament to be denied. The VIP list exists, but questions remain about who asked for it, who defined its objectives, who decided to include it. According to news from the public, the list may have been provided by the Government through the State Secretary for Tax Affairs to the tax administration. This situation, to be confirmed, would be extremely serious and requires absolute clarification on the origin of the VIP list and its objectives. How does the existence of this list coincide with the government's propaganda on combating fraud and tax evasion? This is another issue that needs to be clarified. Are there any citizens who are protected by this fight? Is the protection of tax data a right for all citizens or just a few? In addition to fully clarifying all these issues and punishing those who must be punished, the Government must assume political responsibility for the existence of this VIP list of taxpayers, and this requires that consequences be removed by government policymakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u130	In tax matters, the two pesos government option and two measures are not left here. The data from the 2014 budget implementation confirm this option: the IRC revenue fell 580 million euros, while the IRS revenue increased to the same extent, 540 million euros. But the government also moved to the IMI, reassessing the tax value of the buildings, which resulted in a brutal increase in the tax to be paid. With the elimination of the safeguard clause, which served as a brake on tax growth, many owners of real estate will suffer in 2015 aggravations in the IMI which, according to the Order of Official Accounts Techniques, will reach an average of 35 to 45 %. But at the same time as the small owners, the government and the majority PSD/CDS refuse to remove the exemption of IMI and IMT from buildings integrated into real estate investment funds. Here too, the Government makes clear its choice of two pesos and two measures. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Among the constraints that have led the country to the disastrous current situation is the colossal dimension of public debt. A debt that does not stop growing by volume or by percentage of GDP. The most recent data show that the direct debt of the State increased by almost EUR 8800 million in January 2015. In Maastricht's view, debt also increased €6600 million in just one month. As regards debt interest, in January 34, 5 % increased. This is a situation which the national and transnational financial capital, with the complicity of the Government, intends to perpetuate with the aim of, on the pretext of debt, condition national sovereignty and continue to extract our resources through interest that in 2015 will exceed EUR 8 billion more than is spent on the National Health Service. The extraction of national resources also takes place through public-private partnerships, which are ruinous to the country, but extremely lucrative to the great capital. Despite all government propaganda about the renegotiation of PPPs, the fact is that in 2014 the charges increased in road, rail and security partnerships. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal needs to get rid of the debt dictatorship and put an end to the ruinous PPP business. The billions of euros spent annually on debt interest and PPP charges are needed. It is necessary to ensure the return of wages, pensions, social benefits and public services, to ensure investment in the development of the productive apparatus, to increase national production and create jobs. The government, in anticipation of a heavy defeat in the polls, desperately tries to hide the disastrous situation that led the country and the backwardness it inflicted on the workers and the people. With the prestigious support of the President of the Republic, who has so far been able to see an economic growth of 2 % by 2015, the Government tries to disguise its political choice of two pesos and two measures: for the great capital, benefits and privileges; for the workers and the people, exploitation and impoverishment. This is a policy that does not serve workers, populations, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, producers, the national economy and the country. It is therefore necessary to defeat it, opening the way for a patriotic and left-wing policy, which returns to Portugal and the Portuguese hope in a better future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u131	Mr Paulo Sá, the Bureau registered Mr. Deputies Duarte Pacheco, the PSD, João Galamba, the PS, Pedro Filipe Soares, the Block of Left, and José Luís Ferreira, the Greens. I inform you that Mr. Paulo Sá will respond to each of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u132	So the CDS-PP doesn't want to talk?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u133	We've talked twice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u134	So now the PCP wants to force us to sign up?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u135	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u136	Mr. President, Mr. Paulo Sá, has brought us an intervention full of inversities and ideological discourse in which no one can see, except some autocratics of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u137	And I will tell you why: day by day, we watch in this House and in your various speeches you propose measures that want more public spending and less taxes. Don't you know that means more debt? Do you not know that if you want more expenditure and less revenue, that means more indebtedness and that this would be the consequence of your actions? Don't you know that you have more debt, that presupposes the payment of more interest? Would that also be rational? But now there is good news, and it seems that you have forgotten: it is because of European measures but also because of the credibility which Portugal has earned, that interest at 10 years is close to zero. That is something about which you should show satisfaction, because it is a win for Portugal and for the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u138	Because of European measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u139	But everything that's good, you guys forget! On the Tax Authority, we will be clear: no one in the government and, I think, no one in this Chamber accepts a differentiated treatment between Portuguese. All Portuguese must and deserve equal treatment. About privacy, it's a constitutional right that needs to be safeguarded...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u140	For all citizens!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u141	...for all Portuguese. Third, the Tax Authority informed the Government that there was no list. We need to distinguish three situations here. First, we do not believe in the data that someone transmits to the government and in this case the government has only one solution, which is to immediately dismiss the person responsible. Second, accept as good the information given by the Tax Authority and it was what happened: Have doubts persisted? An investigation is open. The Tax Authority acknowledges that it has failed, that it has transmitted incorrect information, that resignation is inevitable. Where did the government go wrong here, Mr. Member? If, perhaps, you do not believe in the technical information that is offered and made available, then you assume it. But this means that you are superimposed on those who, in the services of the State, have the responsibility for managing them and we respect who, in the Public Administration, performs their work and well. When he's wrong, he has to be held accountable, and that's what happened. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u142	You have the floor to answer, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u143	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, it does not fail to be significant that when the CFP brings the country's problems here, the PSD, instead of attacking the country's problems, attacks the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u145	He accused us of making an intervention full of misgivings, but the honourable Member is that he said an error here. He said that the CFP proposed an increase in public expenditure and, at the same time, a reduction in revenue due to the reduction in taxes. At the very least, he was distracted, because we recently presented a bill proposing to strengthen public spending in the State's social functions, but we also proposed an increase in tax revenue, while at the same time relieving the tax burden on workers, families and micro and small businesses. As you did, ask the honourable Member. Again, I recommend reading this bill: increasing the tax burden on the large capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u147	We have presented concrete proposals, quantified of these measures aimed at large capital and demonstrated here, with calculations, numbers, that it was possible, at the same time, to alleviate the tax burden on workers, on families, on micro and small entrepreneurs, as well as to strengthen spending on health, education, social security and culture, provided that, at the same time, the large capital was properly taxed. We have brought these proposals and at least you have been distracted. But I also said another misgivings, Mr. He said 10-year-old interest is close to zero. No, Mr President, the interest rate may be very low, but the interest paid annually in the country continues to grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u148	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u149	Despite all this focus on short-term interest rate reductions, at 10 years, to 30 years, the fact is that in 2014 the interest paid by the country, due to debt, increased compared to 2013. And the government itself recognizes that by 2015 interest and debt charges will increase. Finally, on the issue of the list. Mr President, a week ago we had Mr. Prime Minister here to deny the existence of this list. Five times said in this room that there is no VIP list. One week was enough to deny Mr. Prime Minister: the VIP list exists. I believe that you will have no doubt about that, either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u150	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u151	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that Mr Duarte Pacheco, recognizing the existence of this list, did not answer important questions. Who created that list? Who set their goals? Who defined the names that make up this list?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u153	These are the issues that we would like to see clarified by Mr Duarte Pacheco, who did not. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u154	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u155	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u156	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u157	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u158	Madam President, I would like to inform you that, precisely in order for these questions to be clarified, the Social Democratic Party has requested the presence of the Director General of the Tax Authority tomorrow, however, as a resignation, because it is he who has to explain all this to the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u159	The government has nothing to do with this! There must always be a foreman for the Minister not to take responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u160	We shall continue with the questions to Mr Paulo Sá. Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u161	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, in fact we have seen here the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs denying the existence of a VIP list ; then we had the Minister of Finance denied the existence of a VIP list ; and then Peter did not deny three times as the other Pedro, but denied the existence of that list five times in the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister. in these almost biblical dimensions of the VIP list, we also have a Nuncio that says that « list, I know nothing». So we have a new "Immaculate Conception": there exists, but no one knows who created it, Mr. Member of the European [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we know is that a list that did not exist and was denied several times ultimately resulted in an inspection of the General Financial Inspection and also resulted in a resignation of the Director-General of the Tax Authority. Next, diligently, the opposition came not only to support the Socialist Party's request for the coming of the Secretary of State and the President of the Tax Workers' Union, but also to propose new hearings. Therefore, we have the majority very committed to clarifying a matter, whose reality has been denied until this morning. This, in fact, has to be clarified, starting with the majority themselves who seem to be a bit of a fight because, after denying it, it now appears not only confirming its existence, but even today we have a statement by the Prime Minister saying that he did not know anything and that it is very serious that this list exists. That's right! It is because it is very serious that this has to be clarified once and for all, and the Socialist Party sincerely hopes that we do not repeat the pattern of the past of this government, which is that when there is a problem, the services are blamed. We had this with Minister Crato, who blamed the services of the Ministry of Education ; we had this with the ineffable Minister Paula Teixeira of the Cross, who blamed the services ; and now everything indicates that the Secretary of State Núncio, in addition to invoking the Immaculate Conception, also says that the blame is for the services! Mr President, the question I have to ask the CFP is whether or not this idea is very serious — if it is not from the Government, it is certainly a government-protected service — that, after pursuing citizens with more taxes and more tax obligations, it seems, rather than considering that VIP is all Portuguese and all Portuguese taxpayers, we have here a small select caste, whose content is still unknown but this Parliament will try to ascertain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u162	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u163	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, you are right, it was not only the Prime Minister who came here five times to deny the existence of the list. During the last week, we also had the Minister of Finance denying the existence of the list and the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs vehemently denying the existence of this list. But today they had to recognize this existence, in view of the facts that came to the public and that were not brought by the government itself. Obviously, now that we know of the existence of the list, we need to clarify those issues that I was asking recently, that is, who created this list. Because there is news, which has come to the public, that it may have been the Government through the Secretary of State, to give directions to the Tax Authority to create this list or might have been the Secretary of State himself to hand it over to the Tax Authority. We need to clarify whether this has happened and who has decided the objectives with which this list was created. The question that Mr Galamba puts is very important: do all citizens have the right to the protection of their tax data or just a few, who make up this VIP list? And, with regard to the fight against fraud and tax evasion, are all citizens subject to this fight or are there some, who are included in this VIP list, who are not subject to this fight against fraud and tax evasion? These are issues that need to be fully clarified. The government, for a week, has fled to respond, but Mr Duarte Pacheco — let me now resume its appeal — tried « to shake the water from the Government's hood ». In the view of the honourable Member, in the majority and probably in the Government, the blame always lies with the middle leaders, never with the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u164	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u166	We reject this position. Regardless of the role that the middle leaders may have played — and if they have acted contrary to the law, there must be the necessary punishments — the government has the political responsibility for the existence of this VIP list and, Mr. João Galamba, this requires that consequences be imposed on the political leaders of the government in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u167	The next question is by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u168	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, I begin by congratulating you on your political statement and going directly to the question of the day, the so-called 'VIP list of taxpayers'. The existence of this list is indeed unacceptable in a democracy, in a rule of law which says that it treats all citizens and all citizens alike and is the political case which distorts the words of the Government, either of the Prime Minister or of the State Secretary for Tax Affairs last week. In fact, it is curious — I asked him to evaluate this matter — that when Paul Nuncio spoke on this subject, we do not even have a word from the CDS. It's weird! The PSD has still tried to "cover the sun here with the sieve" and to say that it was not really what it really is, but from the CDS not a single word. It is the complicit silence that we see on the part of the CDS in the absence of his word in the defense of his Secretary of State, because it seems to us, in fact, that he has to blame in this book. He blames the Prime Minister when he said that there is no VIP list of taxpayers from the government bench. He did not say: «I did not know», he did not say: «I have no knowledge», he did not say: «I will find out». What he said was: « There is no VIP list of taxpayers! Do not keep on seeking. ” More: several times, Paul Nuncio swore on foot together—and I must say that this matter, on the CDS, should be to take seriously! — that there was no VIP list of taxpayers. Last Monday, he even answered a newspaper saying that there is no and that it is not worth investigating. Hours later I was investigating and 48 hours later we see the resignation of the maximum technical officer in this matter! After all, now it seems that he has been found who will atone for sin. After not knowing who the child's "father" was, he now says to resign. Or has Mr. Duarte Pacheco been dismissed? Oh, my God! It's just from his words you don't even understand. It was announced to the social communication that the director asked for resignation and, in his words, it should be understood, then, that if the government realized that there was responsibility there, it should have resigned, but it was not what happened! from the point of view, the government realized that there was responsibility, but not what it should have done! And why? Allow me now to do political analysis. Because, in fact, the government is guilty of the cartel. Since the beginning of the government's knowledge and each time it refused more, it would bury itself on this matter. That is why there can be no other way out of the complete clarification of a matter which is called into question by the rule of law, which says that for this government which has made this tax administration there can be children and entities and those who are on a given list serve not to be investigated, not to be investigated and, more, to have a climate of terror in the tax administration to say, "They don't interfere with them, because if they mess with them, then they take them!"
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u169	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u170	I'm done now, Madam President. And who are these? Someone who was in the government, someone who has a partisan contact, someone who is a public figure. Well, this is unacceptable! There can be no first contributors and second contributors, and we will not stop until there is complete transparency, but we will also take care of all responsibilities in this area. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u171	You have the floor to answer, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u172	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the existence of this list, proven at the end of a week's denial by the Government, is, as I said, unacceptable and reflects what we said in our political statement on the government's option to have two weights and two measures. The protection of taxpayer tax data must be for everyone and may not only be for some who consist of a VIP list. All citizens are subject to measures to combat fraud and tax evasion. There can be no citizens, on a VIP list, who are out of subjection to this fight. The existence of this VIP list is a clear signal from the Government of its choice to have two weights and two measures. With regard to the political consequences — and we have to raise this issue — they cannot remain, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, for the resignation of the middle leaders. This cannot only result from the responsibility of the middle leaders and the government to "wash their hands" as if it had nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u174	There must be political responsibility for the existence of a VIP list in the Tax and Customs Authority. In addition to this accountability, we need to be thoroughly clear about the issues we have already raised here: what role does the government play in creating this list? Was there any direct government intervention? Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs? In what way? For what purpose has this list been created? Which names do you include the list or, better, what was the criterion for defining the names that integrate this list? All these issues must be clarified, those responsible must be punished and the government must assume political responsibility for this situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u175	To put questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u176	Mr. José Luís Ferreira (The Greens). — Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, in fact, is right, this government has two weights and two measures. It has two weights and two measures because it penalises labour income by saving capital income, increases the IRS for families and lowers the IRC for large companies and now also has two weights and two measures depending on taxpayers because some are exposed and others hide in VIP lists. Mr President, we have no doubt that the resignation of the Director-General of the Tax Authority is directly related to the existence of this VIP list. They're more coincidences to be coincidences! Let us see: this resignation occurs at a time when there are strong suspicions about the existence of this list; it happens two days after the Government announced that it would open an investigation; it happens two days after the Attorney General's office has made public that it has opened an inquiry to collect information to carry out any procedures within the scope of the Public Prosecutor's duties; and it happens after the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister himself—who said here, in this plenary, that there was no VIP list—that there was no list. In fact, this position of the Government can only have two readings: either the Government has deliberately and intentionally failed to do so — which is very serious — or, then, the Government was not in the possession of all the elements, which shows, in fact, that the members of this Government have been disenfranchised, that sometimes they do not know that they have to pay their contributions to social security...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u177	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u178	...and sometimes they don't know there's a VIP list! Therefore, both in one case and in the other, the situation is serious, it is very serious. And this resignation is, in fact, strengthening the Government's need to explain and to clarify once and for all whether there is this list, who created it and, above all, with what objectives, because we should ask ourselves why someone should remember to create a list of untouchable taxpayers. Why? What do you have to hide? But it is also important to know whether financial technicians were subject to disciplinary processes in the event of accessing people on this list, it is also important to know whether or not they were subject to disciplinary processes. In fact, by the way, this list has even been announced in a training course to 200 or 300 trainee inspectors and therefore I think that there is little to hide and the evidence is too clear. Mr Paulo Sá, the existence of this VIP list means that for the government there are first and second contributors, taxpayers are not all on an equal footing, because some are subject to the most complete tax striptease and others are untouchable, they are hidden on a list. In our view, that is, to all titles, grave. It is serious that the list exists, but it is even more serious that the Government is not aware of the existence of this list. This is even more serious, because citizens no longer have confidence in institutions. I would like to know whether you share this reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u180	Mr Paulo Sá has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u181	Madam President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I thank you for your question. He said that for this government there are first and second contributors. That is exactly what we, in our political statement, have tried to convey, that is, that this government has two weights and two measures within not only its general policy but also its fiscal policy. We refer to the issue of the IMI, in which the Government withdrew the safeguard clause allowing gross increases in the IMI, while refusing proposals from the CFP, submitted several times, to eliminate a tax benefit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u183	... exempt from payment of IMI and IMT buildings which are in real estate investment funds. The same discrimination — the two pesos and two measures — in terms of IRS and IRC. In two consecutive years, the government dropped the IRC tax rate which affects the profits of large companies and at the same time crushed workers and families with a brutal tax burden, the reflection of which was already seen at the end of last year with the IRS revenue rising to the same extent as the IRC revenue comes down.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u185	And these two weights and two measures also exist clearly on the VIP list. The government is making a great focus around combating fraud and tax evasion. We know that tax officials, within their duties and in strict respect for the law, may need to access taxpayers' data, tax data, to, exactly in the context of combating fraud and tax evasion, check whether such infringements exist. With the existence of this VIP list, we know that tax administration officials, if they conduct an investigation in the field of combating fraud and tax evasion, in accordance with what the law stipulates, can crash into a VIP list and can no longer do that research for certain taxpayers who integrate that list. And this is an unacceptable situation. Finally, Madam President, to conclude within time, saying that once again, the central issue is the full realization of everything that has happened: who has created this list, with what objectives, who has decided the names that make it up. But, regardless of this determination at the moment, what is known is that the existence of such a list requires the accountability of the government and the political leaders in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u186	Following the political declaration of the CFP, the political declaration of the Left Block is followed. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : For the last three years the government has had a youth programme — the « basis ». He began with Steps Rabbit, in 2011, telling the teachers that they had to look at the Portuguese language market and find an alternative there. I mean, base it! Then they were self-help advice, saying that it was necessary to leave the comfort zone. I mean, base it! At least at this point, the government has been relatively successful. With unemployment reaching almost half of the youth, with the precariousness of being as a labour market rule, with the unpredictable future to be the only certainty for a whole generation, more than 100 000 Portuguese "based" even in each year since 2011. It's not worth the pill or the pain of seeing everything black and white. Getting out of the country by choice and will is an act of freedom. Freedom as essential as the right not to leave the country forced by unemployment and precariousness. Let us be clear: travel is a pleasure, chosen mobility is a conquest, international exchanges are a value. But when we have tens of thousands of people emigration, we are not just talking about individual choices. Most of these young people did not travel or emigrate, were expelled, expelled from their country. The invitation to return implies, therefore, a condition: that the scenario that made people go out has changed. When we finish our training, whatever it is, what horizons are they setting up? The horn of the "most qualified generation of ever" no longer means anything. What we know is temporary work without rights, unremunerated internships that we have to accept to do curriculum, scholarships, a permanent state of stand by, false green receipts, never know what follows, unless what follows will always be less than a job. This month there was a small change in the government's speech on emigration. Recognizing that inviting staff to « bazaar » might not be the best strategy, the government presented a plan, the EMV – Valuation of Emigrant Entrepreneurship. Questioned about the details of the programme approved by the Council of Ministers, the Secretary of State Pedro Lumba has explained to us that he was not yet able to anticipate anything, the scope, the costs, the form of contractualization, the target audience or so little scope. Nothing! The government programme is based on the « soon to be seen ». If he did not spray the offensive, the Secretary of State's announcement would only be loaded. After a lot of insistence, there they were designing some details. Support between 30 and 40 projects—yes, between 30 and 40 projects! — emigrants who want to set up their own company, plus some stages paid by the social funds. 40 projects for three hundred thousand emigrants, without moving into employment policies, economic policy, foreign debt, housing policies, that is, without moving to anything at the root of the problem. It is basically a microcredit for every 10,000 people who emigrated. It is true, Mr. Secretary of State Pedro Lumba, that this imperative VEM which he has launched will be a resounding success. They will come charters of emigrants back to Portugal! We already knew that, when proposals are lacking, the government takes out the magic word: entrepreneurship. Note this phrase that I am going to quote: « Entrepreneurship is a revolution that will be for the 21st century more important than the industrial revolution was for the 20th century ». The phrase is ridiculous, ridiculous, but for our collective shame it is part of the Government Programme proposed by the PSD. In 2011, at the same time as sending young people « bazaar », the government took a hand full of measures to « promote entrepreneurship », as a recipe for responding to the problem of unemployment: passports entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship valleys, entrepreneurship for children in schools, all this involved, if well remember, in the clowns of Miguel Gonçalves about the need for « beating punch» and their invitations for unemployed young people to « sell popcorn to the street ». As if the problem of unemployment was a question of 'wanting a lot' or a 'enterprise culture deficit' and not a consequence of collective economic policy choices, with the austerity to overthrow the economy and wealth that should go to job creation to be sucked by debt interest and by the financing of bank scandals. The results of the promotion of entrepreneurship are known: from the point of view of job creation were completely insignificant, and the greater part of these programmes was captured by large companies with the ability to apply. The current program for young immigrants, the VEM, is a species of Miguel Gonçalves take 2, without Relvas but with Lumba. This program, actually, seems more like an insult. An insult to the FCT stockholders who had their projects interrupted; to the poorly paid nurses who were invited out; to the two million "unemployed" who would like to give their talent to the country; to all those who were forced to emigrate and to those who were left, with the pain of seeing them leave. Do you want to bring back the Portuguese who sent them away? They invent fewer programmes « to see », leave the religion of austerity aside, leave the European vassalage and make the economy grow and create jobs. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Jobs, no internships, no scholarships, no employment-inclusion contracts or false green receipts, jobs that allow you to plan a life, have autonomy and look to the future with some hope. Those who are outside have not given up or fled, and if they have reasons for resentment they are not necessarily ashamed of the country, but they are probably more and more ashamed of the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u188	The Bureau recorded two entries for requests for clarification, the first of which was Mr Nuno Sá of the PS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is, of course, a question which I would like to put to the Left Block that is whether, by chance, you do not have the immigration numbers — the PS has and, of course, you will also have them — to help the PSD and the CDS to have the real notion of the scourge and the problem of emigration in our country with this government, not to present these kinds of solutions that, if it were not the drama of people who had to emigrate in a forced way, because they had no future in this country, if it were not, the seriousness and seriousness of this problem, would enter the parliamentary anecdotary and the anecdotary of measures that a government should never present, if it did not want to be the target of laughter. Therefore, as Mr Deputies said here, it must be emphasized that after the Secretary of State for Youth and the Prime Minister had created the « Vão, Emigrem, Saiam de Portugal programme » in 2011 ; after having destroyed the economy in 2012 and 2013, they had destroyed the world of work with precariousness, low wages, loss of social rights, loss of opportunity of qualification and destruction of higher education, creating the « Do Not Return programme » ; after having denied any prospect of the future in Portugal, the Government now comes, and allow me Latinism to violate a principle of Roman law, — also morality inspires our right and morality — which is the so-called nempotest come against actuum. The government, clearly in an abuse of moral law, violating any principle of seriousness in a society, after it has created all the conditions for young people, for Portuguese, for an immense generation of Portuguese people who have no future in Portugal, now tells them to come back, and this with 20 or 30 projects, not knowing how many Portuguese will be covered or how much money will be applied. At six months of the elections, this was, and it is, not passing it itself, a mere shot of dry powder, plus a briefing by the Secretary of State of Lumba, just like so many others who, however, for lack of any effect, ceased to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u190	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u191	I shall finish, Mr President, by leaving some questions to this House and to the Left Block, which is to which I must address myself. Do you know how many Portuguese will be covered by this program? Do you know the amount of the investment and the timing of this program? And now, in the Portuguese stratum that has been condemned by this government to emigrate, there are Portuguese qualified and licensed, but there are a generation of Portuguese who have no qualifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u192	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u193	Is there any program, some measure, for the long-term unemployed and with few qualifications that had to flee their country, their family, the land they love and where they wanted to be? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u194	To make requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, this is a government that pushes young people into emigration and condemns and mortgages the future of those who remain here. There are hundreds of thousands of Portuguese, thousands and thousands of young people, who are thrown into forced immigration, which is not an option. Today we do not choose to study or work for another country because if you want, today you will go to another country because here in Portugal there is no choice, because this is a government that denies the future for Portuguese and young Portuguese. The Government responds to the need for the development of the production apparatus with the destruction of national production. To the imperative need for the recovery of wages and labour, the Government responds with wage cuts, with a brutal increase in labour taxes and an increase in the cost of living which means today to impoverish work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u196	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u197	To the need for public services and proximity services, which are essential for responding to the population, the Government responds with the closure of schools, social security balconies and financial allocations. To the need to defend the public school and its professionals, the government responds with unacceptable cuts and a deep underfunding, precariously and dismissed teachers. To the need to defend the valorization of the National Health Service and its professionals, the Government responds by closing health centers, liquidating hospital services and valuing their workers. And they are increasingly the doctors and nurses who go outside, taking with them all the acquired knowledge and the capital of experience they have.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u199	The vast majority of young Portuguese people, at the end of their studies, have the following exits: unemployment, precariousness or emigration. The Portuguese and young people who are pushed for emigration are needed here, they are necessary in our country and it is not a government propaganda maneuver, with the creation of an evil programme, which will bring back those who were forced by this same PSD/CDS government to look for a future out there. Only a break with these policies and with this path, only policies based on the value of work and wages, the value of national production, the defence of public services and the social functions of the State and the guarantee of the labour and social rights acquired can in fact give a response to the reality of Portuguese workers and people. Mr President, do you think it is possible to give another perspective to the Portuguese people who have emigrated, without breaking up with what has been the policy of the CFPs and the attack pact? Do you not think that only an alternative policy will enable young people to be happy in their country and here to fulfill their dreams and build their lives here? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u200	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. We know that official statistics point to the exit of 120,000 people every year, and most of them are young — most of them are young. But this number is a number below, because there are those who do not change their residence, there are those who do not register, and therefore, in fact, we will be talking about more than 120 000 people every year leaving the country. And it is a abandonment that does not have any glamour, because if there are some people who choose to do so, many, as we know, are forced emigrants who often work in disqualified jobs and under poor conditions in the countries where they go. It was not the commitment of the consular networks and the networks of solidarity established by migrants to support themselves and we would be even worse. And we cannot get out of this, of this waste of people, of this waste of critical mass, of this waste of investment, we cannot make people return, in fact, if we do not break with the logic of austerity that produces unemployment, produces impoverishment and expels people, sending them out of the country. That is why the sudden love of the government for these migrants is, in fact, totally inconsequential and is reason for us to laugh. But who do you want to fool? Oh, my God! In fact, this programme, which wants to bring back immigrants, may have had the only effect of bringing back Mr. Secretary of State Pedro Lumba, who was missing a few months ago. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u202	With no further registrations for requests for clarification on this political statement, I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Gonçalves, also for a political declaration. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today I come here to talk about Portugal. I come to speak of a country divided around the world, which is seen in its diaspora and which considers it as a plus-value,... [[PSD applause.]] ... not only for its international affirmation but also as an important lever for its economic and social development. That's how I see my country. This is how we in the PSD understand Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the area of the Communities has long been a marginal issue in the Portuguese political debate. However, in recent times the issue of emigration has been on the agenda, not to talk about the enormous potential of this sector, but to point out numbers that are then used as mere instruments for political discussion. Unfortunately, we never discuss what is essential, that is, people, their problems, their expectations and their connection to Portugal. We are a country historically of emigration. We are a country that in the 20th century had several migratory cycles with consequences for Portuguese society and for the country and that were always associated with times when the country failed. Now in 2011 Portugal found itself in such a serious economic situation that we can say that at that time the country also failed. [[Protests by PS MP Jorge Fão.]] If the numbers of emigration were only relevant from that point on, it should be remembered that, since the beginning of the century, the values relating to the exit of Portuguese abroad have always been significant, reaching near present values in 2007, and that, according to the Emigration Observatory, they have left Portugal, between 2007 and 2012, an average of 80 000 Portuguese per year. However, more important than discussing numbers, it is important today to create conditions in the country so that it can fix its people and be attractive enough to facilitate the return of those who have been forced out. In recent years, Portugal has managed to reverse a trend that has led it to a critical situation of almost bankruptcy. Today, Portugal is a different country—and I am not the only one to say it. Portugal is now capable of attracting external investment and is seen in the countries that have hosted the large Portuguese communities as a fulfilling country and often referred to as an example of economic recovery. Yesterday, President Hollande, who was so often quoted in this House by the socialist bench, referred to Portugal as « being on a path of growth, with economic results that are significant ». Another socialist who feels that Portugal is different. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Government's recent measures to support the return of our emigrants therefore respond to this new reality. An entrepreneurial and qualified diaspora like ours deserves your country to provide you with conditions to boost your return and investment. The Government thus gives a clear sign that it has Portuguese communities for the future of Portugal. For the least knowledgeable in this area, it should be noted that the current Executive did not wait for 2015 to follow the migration issue. As soon as he took office, he advanced in the social area with information campaigns, worked together with entities in the social area of the diaspora, with municipalities, and, allow me to underline it, he presented in 2014 the first report ever made on Portuguese emigration. It's just that we, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not flout the migration reality, we know that the future of many of our compatriots is at stake. Emigration is always a difficult option. And me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know, on my own experience, what it is to leave the country, the family, the friends and the homeland. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, I cannot but highlight the effort that has been made, despite the financial difficulties of the country, in the follow-up and support of our migrants. Unfortunately, others in the past did not proceed in the same way and, when asked about the numbers of emigration, they said in this Parliament that there was no emigration to Europe but only free movement of workers, denying the numbers mentioned by various institutions. It would be good for those in this House who have now awakened to the issue of emigration to present real political proposals addressed to these Portuguese, rather than always taking refuge in criticism, opinion, comment and sometimes with an adjective that only demonstrates the lack of concrete ideas. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I often say, it is bad that Portuguese has to emigrate, because, as soon as it crosses the borders of Vilar Formoso or Vila Verde da Raia, it is unfortunately enough to count on some of the parliamentary groups here. [[PSD applause.]] We are talking about a sector that has made a remarkable contribution to the economic recovery of the country, a sector that has been essential for the internationalisation of our companies, a sector that has been decisive in the results of tourism and real estate and has been fundamental to the success of our exports. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also referring to a sector which is still fighting for equality of political rights and which is still seeking to ensure that its contribution to Portugal's development is properly recognised. It was for this purpose that the Government implemented an extended set of measures, which aim exactly that recognition and approach. I would like to stress, of course, the programme of consular stays, which allows our administrative services to reach the farthest communities today. An ambitious program, it is true, in which some did not believe (as happened precisely with the Socialist Party ), but which currently extends the consular service network to 179 new places, to 179 cities, to 179 nuclei of Portuguese emigrants. This is perhaps the largest of the measures ever taken by a government in favour of our diaspora and its connection to Portugal. I also stress the policies of valuing the teaching of Portuguese abroad which, with the introduction of the certification of learnings, gained the credibility that was required for a teaching that was fully handed over to itself. A teaching that has also seen its wide-ranging network to countries that, unfortunately, had never benefited from the offer of courses in Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u204	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u205	I shall now conclude, Mr President. I would also like to mention the various initiatives to promote civic and political participation, the collaboration that has been established in the economic area with the various Portuguese Chambers of Commerce abroad and the support for the association and cultural area. In other words, a set of measures that are intended to take advantage of the enormous potential of Portuguese communities and that meet the national interest. And it is exactly the national interest that I am talking about because, finally, Portugal is today a country that understands the importance of its communities and which, with them, will be more capable and competent. I'm done, as I started. I've been talking about a country that goes far beyond its territory. I've been talking about a country, my country and your country, which is that Portugal that finally counts with all the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u206	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, and Mr Gonçalves will answer the two-member groups together. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Paulo Pisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u207	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that this VEM programme was insignificant, but after listening to Mr Gonçalves, I believe that the programme does not even exist, since you did not even mention it, which is truly surprising. What is also truly surprising is the lack of shame that this government has, because it has spent three and a half years sending the Portuguese into immigration now to make it believe, to six months of the elections, that they want the Portuguese to return.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u209	This programme, therefore, because of what has been said here, for the few measures it contains, is a mere act of electoral propaganda, because it does not even have money allocated, nor does it even know how it will work, nor how many Portuguese will cover. This is truly an act of propaganda and of « selling cobra bath ». Then, in order for the Portuguese to return to Portugal, they need to believe in the country. And the truth is that the Portuguese don't believe it, because what this government pretends to give with one hand really takes with the other. Therefore, the Government and even the Prime Minister, who have spent all their time sending the Portuguese into immigration, now have come to find some ill-considered, ill-manned measures made in a real hurry to make them believe that they want the Portuguese to return. But the real conviction and the true philosophy of this government is that they want the Portuguese to stay there and they want the Portuguese to leave. In addition, recently, at the end of February, the Minister of Finance himself said that those who are young, are unemployed and have training, the best is to start looking for opportunities for this outside world, following what is a good tradition of the PSD and this government, which is to send the Portuguese emigration, and that has reached true madness when Euro MP Paulo Rangel even suggested the creation of an agency to facilitate emigration. So what we need to know is that this program here is a programme aimed at emigration. And, of the 102 measures contained in it, only three may possibly bring some newness—and this has never been mentioned. It is that the purpose of this program is truly to deceive the Portuguese. [[PSD MP Alberto Gonçalves protests.]] What I would like to ask Mr CarlosGonçalves is if he does not find it truly ridiculous that, having emigrated over 350 000 Portuguese years, the Government will now want to support 30 to 40 projects. And for all the others who left, for all the families who left with children of school age, is there not a word? Oh, my God! And say there: what are you going to do with all those Portuguese who, for reasons of survival, are doing jobs that have absolutely nothing to do with their training, Portuguese those who, being graduates, are working in the works or doing cleaning? What will the government do with these people? Why has the government not given them any thought in this programme? Tell me, sir! And once and for all, they stop fooling the Portuguese, both those who are here and those who are outside the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u210	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u211	Mr President, Mr CarlosGonçalves, I understand that, in the enthusiasm of the parliamentary game, he invokes the compliments of Antonio Costa and François Hollande on the situation in which his Government has left the country. But, frankly, do you really believe what you said about the country? Do you believe me? Oh, my God! The honourable Member said that the country today is a different country. It is true, it is a different country, of course, because it has at least 360 000 people who have left the country. Now, is it a better country? Do you believe that, Your Honor? Oh, my God! Mr President, I have listened carefully to you, already having read the Strategic Plan for Migration presented by the Government, but I have not heard anything about slave emigration, which still exists — the return of migrants was also the subject, was it not, Mr President? — on job creation in Portugal, on precariousness, on impoverishment, on austerity, on the reasons why people leave the country. Above all, I have said nothing, Mr! I have come to expect, since they have decided to choose this issue for the political declaration, that at least the honourable Member will clarify what the Secretary of State has not clarified on the VEM programme. But not that, not that! Nothing! Is it really 40 projects? Are there 40 projects supporting business creation? Is that your proposal to bring the migrants back? Is that really it, really? Oh, my God! Mr President, almost everything is not clear because there is one thing that is clear: it is that, in addition to the rhetoric about the love of immigrants, from the point of view of what can actually respond to the problem of who emigrated and create conditions for anyone who wants to come back, on that, the PSD said nothing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u212	To reply, Mr. Carlos Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u213	Mr President, Mr Paulo Pisco, I think that, in relation to the political statement on the VEM programme, Mr Nuno Sá, of the Socialist Party, has already asked a question. My political statement was about the Portuguese communities—and the honourable Member is elected by the Portuguese communities. But he spoke only about the VEM programme, forgetting the migrants, their commitment to Portugal, their investment in the country, what they do, the language, the consulates, their problems. Mr President, the political declaration on the VEM programme was the previous one! I would like you to have said what the Socialist Party understands about politics for the communities and when the Socialist Party joins us to deal with the problems affecting the Portuguese communities. We're waiting! [[PSD applause.]] And you can tell me — to myself, Member of the same electoral circle as yours — that, when we talk about migrants, we are making propaganda? Oh, my God! Don't you understand that Portuguese diaspora is fundamental to the country? Do you not understand that entrepreneurship and investment capacity in Portugal is fundamental to the country? Is this propaganda? Don't! This is about Portugal. But my Portugal is different from yours. My Portugal, my party and my parliamentary group are counting on the Portuguese outside. Yours never remembers them! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member wanted to talk about the VEM and Mr Soeiro made a political statement on the VEM. It is clear that the EMV has to do with the Strategic Plan for Migration and I have had the opportunity to say that it is a pioneer. When we talk about migration, we talk about mobility, those who arrive and those who go and, for the first time, there are concrete measures to appeal to investment in Portugal and remind, through a strategic plan for mobility and migration, that who is out there and is Portuguese can also deserve, which has not happened here. The honourable Member may not know, even because he is not in the area of the communities, but my colleague Paulo Pisco knows that the policy for Portuguese abroad is in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have had the opportunity to mention the rostrum, and I regret that two parliamentary groups representing Europe in the Portuguese Parliament have forgotten, which was clearly essential. Mr. José Soeiro, parliamentary enthusiasm is normal. Every time I talk about Portuguese communities, I feel a lot of enthusiasm. He told me it was rhetoric when I was talking about love to communities. Mr. Member, in the communities, I have love for my children, for my wife, for my parents, because they are emigrants, like most of my friends, who are emigrants. It is not rhetorical the love I have for the Portuguese communities. It's not rhetoric. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Regardless of what has already been said, there is one fundamental thing that seems essential to me: no one emigrates or returns by determination or by decree-law. People emigrate when the country is in difficulty and only when the country has the conditions to attract them is that they return. That's exactly what we're doing. I will end by taking into account the words of Mr Pisco, who said that someone—probably the Prime Minister— sent to emigrate. Sir, you did not send. They were already emigration. Look at the headlines I'm going to mention: « Portuguese emigration beats values for five decades» ; the public says « Current emigration movement compared to the 1960s » ; the Express refers to « Work perhaps out there » ; another newspaper says that emigration was not so high 50 years ago. This could be for Mr Nuno Sá : « Emigration may be reducing unemployment numbers », « Emigration record », « There are many more people leaving Portugal », « Emigration is not over », etc. All these titles are 2010! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Let me now - let me say that it has been mentioned today - and it is repeated everywhere, it is a solution for everything! - that came out 300 000 Portuguese. I only have the correct numbers of the Emigration Observatory from 2007 to 2012 and in your time in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 left Portugal, according to INE data, 335 000 Portuguese. No one asked them out. They were already leaving because of you, because you said that the country was in a state of prosperity, but it was already on the brink of bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u214	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u215	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Gonçalves...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u217	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u218	Mr President, I would ask that the distribution of the document containing the INE numbers be made clear that over the past three years more than 130 000 people have left Portugal, a number equivalent to the worst in the 1960s and 1970s.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u219	It'll be distributed. Mr Carlos Gonçalves also spoke to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u220	Mr President, it was only to inform the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group that the report of emigration, which I referred to, has INE numbers, the Emigration Observatory and other entities, and was presented in the Assembly of the Republic. There was a demand on the part of the Portuguese Communist Party to require the Government to submit the immigration report. I am surprised that the Members of the Socialist Party would like to send a document, perhaps without having read the report of the immigration which has been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and, as such, have difficulty arguing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u221	Sir, I will have all the documents distributed. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Gonçalves, we have a government that in 2011 says it goes and in 2015 says VEM, but the lives of Portuguese are not a shuttle and therefore demands respect and dignity on the part of this government. What you didn't mean was that this government is responsible for forced emigration of thousands of people who fled to unemployment and poverty in the country. People were forced to leave the country because it did not guarantee them the possibility of living in dignity and that, as you know, causes deep suffering in the lives of each person who is forced to leave and the families who remain. This government is neither a government nor those who go or those who remain. It is a government that finds every day measures to degrade living conditions and to ensure the worsening of poverty among Portuguese people. Mr President, there is something we cannot help but say. Mr Deputy asked questions without ever referring to the reality and responsibility that this Government has in the degradation of public services to support the Portuguese communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u223	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u224	He did not mention the consulates that were closed; he did not mention the tips of teaching Portuguese abroad: he did not mention the position of the PSD in relation to the proposal of the CFP of the remuneration status of the consulates workers. Say here what the PSD position will be, whether or not it will follow our proposal regarding the wage valuation of these workers, which are faced with an unacceptable situation of increased cost of living in these countries. We'd like to say one more thing. Beyond the war of numbers — and the fact is that today there is a diagnosis of emigration was because the CFP presented a proposal for the preparation of the annual report on emigration — in 2012 emigration exceeded the historical value of 1976. Only in 1976 we had just emerged from a period of fascist regime, with a colonial war that forced us to flee the war to survive, and in 2012 people were confronted with an unacceptable situation, as they were in 2013, in 2014 and as they are still in 2015, which is to have a government that wastes the best that any country has, which is its people, and tells people who don't need it in this country. We understand exactly the opposite: this country cannot develop if it has the people fighting for it. That is why we believe that all are needed — not 40, Mr President, they are all Portuguese, all those who work here are needed for the development of the country. But for that, Mr President, another policy is needed, a policy that breaks with the policies of the PECs, the PS, but also with the pact of troika, the PSD and the CDS, which guarantees the fulfilment of the Constitution of April and the rights enshrined therein. That is why we understand that, in fact, it is much more than what this country needs. This country needs another government and another policy, which puts the country on the path to progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u225	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u226	Mr President, Mr Carlos Gonçalves, you spoke almost generally about some things that may have mattered. The honourable Member did not mention the question of the wage devaluation of the workers of our consulates, for example in Switzerland and other countries, and he would like to hear about it; he did not talk about the children of our emigrants who pay tips at a level of 1. the cycle to study Portuguese, and I would also like to hear something about it; you did not want to talk about the problems our emigrants face and about which the government has direct responsibilities, but you did not want to talk about it either. Mr President, it may be important to make the discussion a little more useful in terms of the Strategic Plan for Migration. You have mentioned here that it will be a programme, which I thought of your intervention, which will call a lot of people in the country. This is also understood by the Government. That is why it might be important for the honourable Member to be able to detail more in this House on the issue of the effectiveness of the proposed measures, but for that we need estimates of numbers. That is, what are the expectations that the government has or, better, where does the government want to go? How many people does the government want to call the country? What investment are you willing to make for this purpose? Mr. Member, what has been announced by Mr. Secretary of State is a joke! To value entrepreneurship can go to a maximum of 30, 40 projects — 30, 40 projects! Mr President, let us compare this with the numbers of emigration, which, with your government, has climbed far above 300 000 people. What's this? Oh, my God! What do you intend to remove from this number announced by the Secretary of State? Oh, my God! Then they propose internships for young immigrants, the same as they are proposing for those who are here. They're not proposing any more jobs, they're proposing internships. Sir, this calls who and for what? Oh, my God! Mr President, is this a provisional programme until the elections? After the elections, if, eventually, and by chance, of the woes of this country, you would return to the government, what would these young people do again? Oh, my God! It is that you do not want to give up the austerity policy and the austerity policy has this performance: a lot of emigration, honourable Member, a lot, a lot of forced and sad emigration. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u227	I think that no one else wants to ask for clarification, so I will immediately give Mr Carlos Gonçalves the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u228	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u229	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u230	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to say that, as I understood that there was an inscription by another Member to request clarification, in this case Mr Carlos Gonçalves will answer together the three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u231	The registration has already been made later, but if Mr. Ladies and gentlemen do not oppose the Member who has signed up to use the floor. Mr Hélder Amaral also asked for the floor to call on the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u232	Mr President, in fact, the registration of the CDS-PP Member was made late, which is the full responsibility of the management of the bench and mine. But if the other parliamentary committees do not object, it is normal for the CDS to ask for clarification, as there is the speaker's willingness to answer the three questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u233	It seems that no Member is opposed, so Mr Lino Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u234	Mr President, I welcome Mr Carlos Gonçalves for bringing the issue of Portuguese communities and immigration to this House and how it was treated. The theme of Portuguese communities is usually forgotten and the subject of emigration is often treated, uniquely and exclusively, by the negative, as if it were numbers, not respecting the fact that we are talking about people and life options. The history of Portugal, our history, shows us - and teaches us - that we have always been a people unacquainted with adversity, who seeks more and better for us and for future generations. It was our DNA of audacity and willingness to win that brought us independence, it was our DNA of search for more and better that made us face winds and tides to bring hope to a more developed and prosperous country. But it was also our DNA of non-conformism and freedom that freed us from dictatorship and launched us in a Europe and in a European project that has exactly the basis of freedom of movement of people and goods and the free search for other options and better living conditions. The history of this country, the history of this country's grandeur, is not limited to this rectangle, but is in its people, in its desire to win and in its communities. But the story also shows us that at all times, at all times, there have always been the « old men of the remnant », the prophets of misfortune, who are unable to see anything for the positive, to pull out for the best of us. But these, fortunately, do not pray the story. Our nation is not only made from the past. from the lessons of history we should learn lessons for the present and for the future. Our responsibility is to our emigrants, to our communities, wherever they are; our respect for their difficulties or their options is to ensure that the conditions that led them to emigrate change, but also create conditions for them, wherever they are part of Portugal, to be connected to Portugal and to have proximity services. And that's what this government has done. One of the ways to create services of greater connection and proximity has been the Consular Permanence Program, which, curiously, or perhaps not, the Socialist Party has completely forgotten. A program that, unlike others in the past, was not virtual, it is real and the migrants felt it. Yesterday, as today, the « old men of the Restello » early diagnosed difficulties. They said it wouldn't be implemented—they were wrong! They said it would have no effect — they were wrong! They said it wouldn't be a success— they failed! The honourable Member has already said that he was elected by the communities, that he was an emigrant. As such, I ask: what evaluation does this program make? More importantly: what feedback do you have from communities? How has the relationship between consular services and Portuguese communities changed? How did it enable life and strengthened relations between communities and the country? Emigration, that of the present and that of the future, is substantially different from traditional, i.e. that of the past, and as such, I can say that today we have a qualified emigration, easily integrated into the competitors and demanding societies that welcome it. I therefore ask you, Mr President, whether or not Portugal should continue to take advantage of economic and political emigration as a vector of its foreign policy. Should or should not value-gathering programmes be promoted in the context of emigration? Should we or should we not bet on the diaspora as a form of promotion of Portugal that we are all? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u235	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u236	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I would like to thank you for your questions — I think it is elected by the Lisbon circle — and to tell you that, as you have been attentive to my political statement, you have put the issues that you should have raised in terms of Portuguese communities and in terms of immigration. He remembered, and well—he had already said—that it was a parliamentary initiative of the Portuguese Communist Party, asking the Government to make an immigration report, and it was done. Today, the gentlemen. Members, except for those of the Socialist Party, apparently have a set of statistical information on emigration that allows them to work a very important matter, because people are behind the numbers. I understand that the report on emigration does not fully correspond to the Socialist Party's speech; that is why they either did not read it or did not read it. Mrs Rita Rato spoke of forced emigration, but I have already had the opportunity to say that—and the honourable Member knows—because, whether the Portuguese Communist Party or the PSD, or the other parliamentary groups, drew attention to migration flows, and, indeed, some of the statements she made up to come from a worthy militant of the Communist Party—migration did not start in 2011 and there is no switch. People left because the country had no prospects for the future and only now, four years later, we started again, with the effort of all Portuguese, also those outside, to have prospects for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u238	It only returns to Portugal who has prospects for the future in the country and have emigrated was because they did not have these perspectives. The blame, as you know, cannot be touched. There was someone who was in government who thought he had the country of fantasy — the country of fantasy, which is Disneyland, by chance, is at my house—but, and I am very sorry, Portugal was in a situation of great difficulty. Mrs Rita Rato, regarding the consulates of Portugal, did well to talk about them. As you know, we inherited a situation of dramatic human resources, even in their rights, and it was this government that was able to approve the professional status for consular workers, because there were very complicated situations, and there is still. For example, the last contest for middle leaders was launched in 2004 and was never implemented by the previous government. Now, the government has already announced that it would provide jobs with more workers, because there is already some budgetary capacity to do so. And I'm going to talk about consular stays to supplement my answer. Mrs Rita Rato also spoke about the promenades. As regards the teaching of Portuguese abroad, as you know, we have a tight budget and the tip serves simply to pay the certification. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I've already said it here. Members demand that your children, when they learn English or another language in Portugal, have diplomas, so it is normal for immigrants to have diplomas as well. We had a teaching to be taken into account, today we have a truly credible and recognized education especially by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u240	The honourable Member has also spoken about investment—and now I am also addressing Mr Lino Ramos and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia—but the Portuguese who are abroad have never stopped investing in Portugal. Look at the numbers of the Portuguese economy and you will see what Portuguese migrants invest. Lately, there has been even a large economic group in which one of the leaders is a successful emigrant. The emigrants, in this most difficult period, have been supportive of the country and the government has never been able to attract so much investment from migrants. The problem is that you don't talk about those emigrants who pass through the Green Raia Village or Vilar Formoso and now come to talk about VEM! This is the first time that the issue of mobility is linked to the issue of emigration and you seem to be upset that there are proposals for emigration. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] What has emigration done to some who think about policies in Portugal? So emigrants don't deserve policies for them? This is a sign, it's a start. I believe that the result will be positive and open a door to the future, because it is innovative. It's a start, maybe. There may be criticisms in the technical plane, of course, but it is a positive novelty for those who are out there and for those who are here, because they know that the country, when talking about mobility, remembers those who arrive but also remembers those who have left. Mr Lino Ramos spoke about consular stays. I remember the debate we had here with the then Foreign Minister and no one believed in the success of consular stays. We had a virtual consulate that cost almost 1 million euros and never served anything but as decoration in the premises of the consulates in Portugal. The creation of consular stays was really the greatest measure ever taken, because it is the consulate that goes with people, and we have Portuguese at 100, 200, 300, 500, 1000 kms of the consulate. This is an exemplary measure: 179 localities, 179 Portuguese nuclei.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u241	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u242	Mr. President, I will conclude. They do not think that this measure should merit the VV agreement. Ex.A.? You don't like Portuguese being well cared for? Yeah, it's uncomfortable, but it's the good of the Portuguese that makes us work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u243	The first point on our agenda is thus concluded. We are now entering the second point, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends strengthening measures to combat skin cancer ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthening the intervention of primary health care in the fight against skin cancer ( PCP ). To present draft resolution No 1281 / XII, Mr Nuno Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups propose a set of measures aimed at an integrated approach to strengthening prevention and combating skin cancer. We do so taking into account the contribution of a wide range of experts and associations who have a valuable history on this subject and who, with their recommendations, also participated in our draft resolution. In fact, it is estimated that in Portugal there are about 10,000 new cases of skin cancer each year, as well as about 900 melanomas. This trend to increase the incidence of skin cancer in general and melanoma in particular is supported by recent projections of the Regional Oncological Register, which show that the risk of melanoma will increase by 22 % by 2020. The vast majority of skin cancers are related to prolonged or inadequate exposure to ultraviolet rays. It is not surprising, therefore, that the incidence of this cancer is growing, more often, in early ages, in younger adults, in an active phase of life, and it is estimated that half of the cases of melanoma occur precisely in young adults under the age of 40. Of course, professional activities, but also the exercise of outdoor sports activity—which, of course, must be increased, is positive— have also contributed to this phenomenon, not because the sun has no advantages but because, indeed, an integrated approach is needed, which prevents inappropriate and excessive exposure to the sun. we propose today the adoption of a national strategy to combat skin cancer, with a view to a concerted and multidisciplinary approach to this disease, both in primary and secondary prevention and also in the treatment phase. Secondly, and in this way, we also propose the conduct of information campaigns, aiming at raising the awareness of the population for some care, such as avoiding excessive or inappropriate exposures to the sun, especially in spring and summer, and with a particular focus on younger groups, especially through the inclusion of this theme in curricular programs. Thirdly, we propose strengthening the realization of skin cancer screenings, in particular aimed at people at increased risk of contracting this type of cancer, with a view to increasing the coverage rate of cancer screenings already recommended in the National Health Plan 2012 - 2016. Fourthly, we propose increasing citizens' accessibility to consultations on dermatology in hospitals and to the treatment of cases of already diagnosed skin cancer. Fifthly, we propose strengthening the specific training in dermatology of family physicians, as well as training and updating of health professionals who treat patients with various types of skin cancer, particularly melanoma. Sixthly, we propose awareness of the need to standardise diagnostic and treatment criteria for patients with melanoma. Seventh, we propose the creation of a database for national registration of all patients with melanoma and the establishment of notification obligations to the Ministry of Health and Regional Oncological Registers by all laboratories of pathological anatomy, whether public, private or the social sector, of all cases of skin cancer. Finally, we propose to strengthen the supervision of establishments covered by Decree-Law No 205 / 2005 of 28 November providing artificial tanning services, including solarians. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in short, we want the citizens, the authorities and the government to definitely pursue skin cancer as a priority for public health. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u245	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evolution of skin cancer in Portugal is very worrying. There has been a tendency to increase the incidence of this disease. We believe that the approach to skin cancer issues cannot be dissociated or disconnected from the more general approach to cancer issues. Today, there are a set of problems affecting many cancer patients with regard to the late diagnosis, high waiting times for consultations and surgeries and increased difficulties in access to medicines, examinations and treatments. Therefore, in our perspective, the fight against oncological diseases and, in particular, skin cancer, goes through prevention, early diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Prevention, moreover, is of extraordinary importance with regard to skin cancer. There are a number of diseases that exist today and which cause much suffering to thousands and thousands of Portuguese and there are many of these diseases that could be avoided. And this is a concrete example of a disease that could be avoided by changing the behaviors of our population. It is in this sense that the CFP has brought to this debate a draft resolution proposing a set of concrete measures with regard, specifically, to prevention and also to treatment, including its speeding up and acceleration. The CFP proposes, in the context of prevention, the conduct of awareness campaigns in schools and workplaces and leisure on the risks of exposure to ultraviolet radiation, effectively taking into account the abusive exposure by many Portuguese. We also propose the following: training aimed at family physicians, in order to be more awake and more sensitive to this disease; articulation between primary health care and hospital care, to reduce waiting times for dermatology consultations and, consequently, so that treatment can be carried out in good time; regulation of solarians in order to ensure their use in a salutogenic way. In addition, we propose that the Directorate-General for Health carry out epidemiological analyses on the evolution of diseases and adopt national programmes. We believe that these are some of the essential measures to be taken in relation to this specific matter. I would like to make a reference in this debate. In view of the draft resolution submitted by the PSD and the CDS, and given the intervention we have already had the opportunity to hear, expressing concerns about this matter, I am very surprised that during four years of governance effective measures have not been taken by this Government, considering that PSD and CDS support this Government, and that human, technical and financial resources have not been strengthened, particularly within the framework of the National Programme for Oncological Diseases, which has had many difficulties in implementing the defined guidelines. We can also talk about funding in the area of disease prevention and health promotion, which is still demanding and very deficient. It is in the prevention of the disease and in the promotion of health that much must be invested in the future and in the improvement of Portuguese health but also in the guarantee of a National Health Service of quality and effectiveness. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u247	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : How many of us have not accumulated, throughout life, cheerful and unconsciously, too many hours, too many weeks, too many years of sun exposure without any precautions. How many of us here, in this plenary session, and also in the Portuguese and world population, have not been worried about the so-called'scaldões' and the consequences. It is true that only in recent decades has the scientific community established such a direct and dramatic association between excessive exposure to the sun, without protection, and skin cancer. And, obviously, we cannot forget the very important genetic component that exists and will always exist. But I am afraid to say, as has already been said, that skin cancer is becoming a real worldwide scourge. It is estimated that worldwide, between 2 and 3 million cases occur annually, of which about 200 000 are melanomas, melanomas, which, as they will know, are the most serious type of skin cancer and which causes 80 % of the deaths caused by this. The figures in Portugal have already been indicated by Mr Nuno Reis, but, just to remember, it is estimated that each year about 10 000 new cases of skin cancer, 900 of which melanomas occur. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how many of these cases are already diagnosed very late? Oh, my God! That is why, despite increasing awareness, the incidence of cancer has become increasingly common at earlier ages, estimated that half of the cases of melanoma occur in people under 40 years of age. They therefore consider PSD and CDS that the State should increasingly view skin cancer as a serious public health problem. It is true that access to regular dermatology consultations does not occur as much as we would like and there are very few dermatologists who specialize in oncology. thus the need to pay greater attention to the training and recruitment of these specialists. In any case, we can count on a network of educators, teachers, nurses, pharmacists and professionals in general and family medicine to be fundamental elements in raising awareness of the population for this problem of skin cancer and to provide the indispensable bet on information accessible to all. The adoption of measures at local level, not only in the effective fight against skin cancer, but also in the awareness of the population, particularly for the risks of excessive and inadequate solar exposure, with which I started this intervention. Thus, the awareness of the younger populations, which have already been mentioned here, should be established as an absolute priority, which should obviously be stimulated for outdoor activities, provided they take the necessary precautions and take care not to make excessive exposure to the sun. Many of the specific aspects and the integrated and multidisciplinary proposals of the disease — and I refer again to the extraordinary importance of prevention and early diagnosis — have already been stated by Mr Nuno Reis on this joint initiative. For lack of time, I mean, once again, just one of them, which is tied to the tracking...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u249	And he's finished even as long as he has, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u250	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, for a short time, I mean only one of the proposals, which is related to the screening. The National Health Plan 2012 - 2016 should consider strengthening the early diagnosis of skin cancer and thus being one of its objectives "to increase the total coverage rate of cancer screenings", currently for breast and cervical cancer, ensuring more than 60 % coverage throughout the national territory by 2016, we propose that these population-based systematic screenings also include skin cancer screening. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u251	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today we are discussing two initiatives that recommend to the Government the strengthening of measures to combat skin cancer, one from the CFP and the other — let alone! — PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u253	What are you talking about? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u254	This is the state to which health has arrived: the majority themselves are obliged to recommend to the government. Why would it be? Because the government does not do what it deserves. Let's wait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at least these recommendations are being heard because we have already made so many recommendations to the Government and the Government has made fools of the Assembly of the Republic, which, in fact, we hope that the majority will do so in a somewhat extraordinary situation, the Government will be able to follow the recommendations that the majority here make. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking about skin cancer and we could actually talk about other cancers, but this is quite important, because it has some particular characteristics, since melanoma is mostly cured when treated at initial stages. Knowing the situation of inequity in terms of access to innovation and also the lack of equity in terms of access for patients to innovative medicines, we are concerned. It is that advanced melanoma has been an orphan drug disease since 1975. There was not until recently, in particular, until 2011 — the studies say — any innovative therapies or proven scientific proof of survival. Therefore, there was a paradigm shift in immuno-oncology with innovative therapy that allowed its survival and chronicity in the face of cancer. In view of this, we have to ask why the Government is waiting for it to do what it is responsible for. We hope, I repeat, that this recommendation does not fall again into a broken bag. It was unfortunate that the majority had not recommended that the Government solve the problem of hepatitis C, for example, in order to avoid such suffering. It was also unfortunate that the majority had not recommended to the Government to hire doctors and nurses in order to avoid chaos in emergencies, which was known to all. We are still suffering the consequences of this chaos today. It is very painful for Portuguese people that access to medicines, access to health care has suffered from paralysis, delay, and that we are all penalized, because the government does not rule. And, as if it were not enough not to govern, the government slowed down the reforms that were already in a state of consolidation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, the eight recommendations they make are all relevant, it is unfortunate that they did not make them sooner. We are waiting for these recommendations to have consequences. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u255	Also for an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The topic today is cancer, a disease that continues to victimize thousands of people. But we're particularly talking about cancer, skin cancer. This is a disease that deserves our attention, a disease whose tendency is clearly to increase its incidence, a disease whose prevention is directly linked to changing behaviors, particularly with regard to exposure to the sun, but also a prevention that must be specifically addressed to all workers and workers who perform their outdoor activities, and are not as few as this, and it deserves, in fact, a particular strategy, and must be present in all matters relating to hygiene and safety at work. I will say, from now on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Left Block will vote in favour of all the recommendations, but we must not fail to point out, in any way, what is extraordinary, the presentation of eight recommendations by the parliamentary majority. It is that these recommendations seem to go beyond the policy that has been followed by this government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u257	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u258	... and that has a brand: to make it difficult for citizens and citizens to access the National Health Service. This is a brand, I think, indisputable! So I see the eight recommendations, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, it is extraordinary to note that Mr. Members are very concerned, and well, with the strengthening of specific training in dermatology of family doctors. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 1 million Portuguese and Portuguese people who do not even have a family doctor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u260	We can't ignore this! We know that access to specialist consultations is increasingly difficult. Questions to the Ministry of Health occur every day! Even when hospitals were removed from the National Health Service, as is the case today, which we discussed in the Health Commission, from the Fundão Hospital, we further removed the citizens from the health system. The same is said when proximity services are closed. Mr. Members, all of this is in contradiction with what has been the trademark of the PSD Government and the CDS. I've finally left a look that seems very important to me. It's just the ladies. Members and Members of Parliament recommend further screenings in this area and this touches on a very relevant point which has already been placed directly to the Minister of Health. As we all know, there are currently fewer cancer screenings, which is extremely worrying and, of course, is the consequence of the policy that has been followed, which could not produce another result, after so many cuts, of so much obsession with numbers in health. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no concerns, because the Left Block bench will vote in favour of the recommendations. What we do is we hope that the government will somehow at least read them and look at them. And we regret, as I could never cease to be, that it is practically at the end of the legislature that all these concerns come to an end. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u261	Mr Paula Santos has the floor for a 10-second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u262	Mr President, I will necessarily be brief, just to say that we hope that, following this debate, the recommendations will be effectively adopted, but we also hope that these recommendations will not have the end of others which this House of the Republic has already approved, some by unanimity. I am reminding myself, for example, of the pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan, for which, even last week, the Minister of Health did not say yes or no, indicating that the issue was not going to go forward. So what we really want is that we do not have to wait any longer, either for this disease or for others, so that the government will fulfill its responsibilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u263	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1281 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 1304 / XII ( 4. ( a ), so we will move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of the joint debate of petition No 428 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Presented by AHRESP — Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the replacement of the 13 % VAT rate in food and beverage services in the restaurant and hotel and consequent legislative amendment, of draft resolution No 1303/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the VAT rate in the restoration sector in 13 % ( The Greens ) of draft law No 817 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — VAT replacement of the restoration at the rate of 13 % ( PS ) ( generally ) of draft resolution No 1305 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Replies the VAT rate in food and drink services by 13 % ( PCP ) and draft law No 824 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Returns the rate of VAT in the restoration sector to 13 % ( BE) ( generally ). The first recorded speaker is Mr José Luís Ferreira, to whom I give the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, in particular those who are here today, with us to watch the work and, above all, those who, despite the time, continue to attend the work. I would also like to greet AHRESP, not only for promoting this petition but also for the work that has been carried out, with a view to restoring the VAT rate of restoration to 13 %, as a way to avoid more bankruptcy and more unemployment in the sector. If it is true that since the beginning of the financial crisis, the restoration sector has experienced failures in all its main indicators, it is also true that it was from 2012 onwards that the VAT rate increased from 13 % to 23 %, which recorded the most severe breaks, both at the level of closure of companies and at the level of job extinction, both at the level of turnover reduction and, still, at the level of reduction in gross value added.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u265	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u266	According to INE data, until 2013 — and only until 2013! — the sector lost almost 30 000 workers and the European Commission finally said that around 60 % of Portuguese catering companies live in high risk of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u267	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u268	This situation was more than predictable. It was also because of the fact that the Greens submitted successive proposals for amendments to the various State budgets, with a view to restoring the VAT rate in the intermediate rate. But the parties of the majority finally dropped the various proposals and the rate remained at 23% and today the results are more than visible. Since the entry into force of the 23 % VAT rate, around 20 000 catering establishments have been closed and more than 100 000 jobs have been lost, without any possibility of re-entry into the labour market. The Government then constituted an inter-ministerial working group to assess the specific economic and financial situation and context costs in the restoration sector. And what does this report tell us, which was commissioned by the government? It says very clearly that the reduction in the VAT rate applicable to the sector represents an active incentive to the economy, with a particular focus on employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u269	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u270	But despite the clarity of these conclusions, the Government continued to wave aside, arguing that this measure would bring a positive net result to the State accounts, an estimate which has never been sustained and which is still not demonstrated today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u271	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u272	In fact, unlike the government accounts, the current increase in VAT did not correspond to an increase in tax revenue, as it is now more than visible. In other words, the maintenance of the 23 % VAT rate is not good for anyone: neither for the State nor for the economy nor for the sector. It would therefore be good for the parties of the majority to vote in favour of the Greens' proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u273	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate AHRESP and its leaders and the ladies and gentlemen. Entrepreneurs here. AHRESP once again submitted a petition on this matter to the Assembly of the Republic, which we thank. Once again, through a bill, the PS will follow up this petition to restore the VAT of restoration at the rate of 13 %, which we consider to be an element of justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u275	Moreover, this petition has collected more than 21,000 signatures, and it is clear that there is a need to restore injustice to the economy and employment. We wanted to point out that these entrepreneurs and these entrepreneurs are resistant to a measure that, with 23 % VAT, brought back the marmita. With this apology of the European Union's highest VAT rate, the Government promotes marmita instead of going to restaurants, even if they are modest. [[PSD protests.]] For the PS wants the promotion of gastronomy and the VAT of the restaurant to 13 %! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for four years, these entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs have been exposed to sacrifice. It is more than time for the government to step back and make the companies that are still resisting are not taken and pushed into bankruptcy. We know that these entrepreneurs, in their large majority, often even mortgaged their own homes and worsened their own assets to support businesses. And the picture of the sector — still data from the European Commission — is as follows: 60 % of companies in the hotel and catering sector are at high risk of bankruptcy; the restoration and hotel have lost 26 400 jobs only in the fourth quarter of 2014, compared to the same period ; 34 % of enterprises have been lost, 65 % of employment and 78 % of turnover in more than EUR 1, 2 billion according to INE. They're not invented data, they're INE data! Portugal is the champion of the VAT of the restoration, a measure that is nothing to promote the economy. And we want to promote the economy! Moreover, our competitors — Spain, France and Italy — have VAT rates of around 10 %, while Portugal has a higher rate of 130 %. This, in an already heavily penalized sector, with measures to restrict consumption, as we all know. Therefore, this sector was even more sacrificed. It's time, more than time, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, stop this bleeding. Therefore the PS once again challenges the majority to vote in favour of this initiative and to make the Government respond to the VAT rate at 13 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u276	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u277	I'm done now, Mr. President. The inter-ministerial group itself, composed of five elements of the Government, recognises the added value of this measure for the promotion of young employment itself, which, as we know, has 35 % rates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, before, it was the troika's excuse, because the troika did not leave—and we know what countries like Ireland and Greece had, and have, lower VAT rates and have lowered these VAT rates; at the moment, we no longer have the troika, and we hope that this obtuse and insensitive form of the government itself will not continue. If they did, as they announced, we deeply regret. Antonio Costa has already stated... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u278	... which, when government, will restore the VAT of the restoration by 13 %, as it is to establish justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u279	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting AHRESP and its leaders, promoters of the petition we are discussing today. I also greet all those who, during this long process, have been involved in this struggle: the National Movement of Entrepreneurs of Restoration, the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and all the entrepreneurs of the restoration sector. This case is a good example of how the struggle outside the Assembly of the Republic can determine what is going on in here, is a good example of persistence, which will one day be rewarded. The restoration sector is one of the government's chosen ones : it was chosen to have the highest VAT rate in Europe, it was chosen to be sacrificed, with the maintenance of the fee, despite the evidence of the error of that decision, it was chosen to demonstrate the essence of this PSD / CDS government. The Government and the majority have said everything to maintain their decision against the ever-increasing will. First, it was the obligation of the troika; then, a great defender of the reduction of VAT, who, transformed into a minister of the CDS, quickly put the rape in the bag.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u281	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u282	There was still responsibility for the sector, because it was too extensive—there were more restaurants, the PSD said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u283	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u284	We have shown — the sector shows — the effects of these policies, and with official numbers: Banco de Portugal — 62 % of the housing and catering companies with financial debt were unable to generate income before taxes sufficient to pay interest; INE — between the fourth quarter of 2013 and 2014, minus 26 400 jobs in accommodation and restoration. These are the data from this lamp that I show you and that I want to see the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen have the courage to lie! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u285	The increase in tax revenue is the government's argument for nothing to change. So prove it with the official numbers, which break up the revenue of the fight against fraud,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u286	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u287	... by changes in the invoicing procedures, showing the values due solely to the increase in the rate of VAT in the restoration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u288	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u289	And even if the government could prove that there is an increase in revenue, this would no longer make it fair to maintain the rate of VAT at 23 %. The CFP therefore advocates, in its draft resolution, the reduction of VAT to 13 % in the second half of this year; the amendment of the VAT code to consolidate this reduction from 2016 onwards; the clarification of the statistical evaluation mechanisms in the restoration sector, either in employment or in the tax revenue; and the publication of VAT statistics, which is not happening in this 2011. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u290	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by congratulating the petitioners, by welcoming the persistence they have had in this battle for the protection of the interests of their sector, and legitimately, but also for the protection of all citizens against this regime of absolute tax persecution, maintained by this government, obviously only for some, not for the majority, who has to deal with this persecution. But by going directly to the subject, I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are interested in knowing how a sector of activity is destroyed. [[Putting the Left Block to rule!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u292	If you have an interest in knowing it, ask this government, which has done it in a very, very effective way, when it has increased the VAT of restoration from 13 % to 23 %, 77 % of increase in tax burden; when it has increased income, with the law of waste, which has forced many restaurants and cafes to turn it to the street and close its establishments, when they have compressed the purchasing power of the population until they can no longer. Everything in the name of a supposed productive transformation of society, a creative destruction that of creative has nothing and that of productive has even less than creative. He left on the brink of survival a sector that is not, nor has it ever been, an obstacle for neither society nor the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u294	The restoration sector is a shock absorber of the crisis, and that is something we must understand! Because it is the sector where small families can have their income; it is the sector that covers the unemployed when they are temporarily unemployed and can work at the coffee of their families; it is the sector that is the center of social cohesion, within Portugal, abandoned by austerity policies; and, yes, it is the sector that makes a great part of your success of tourism, of your success of such a transformed economy! It is this sector that they have punished, this sector that they have left on the brink of non-survival. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you know how a sector is destroyed. If you want to know what this sector looks like and the consequences of its destruction, if you want to know why we are defending the 13 % VAT replacement, ask the people who have signed this petition. Some of them are here, so they can confront them and ask them about the consequences of the increase in VAT. Let them ask two simple questions: firstly, how they can reproduce a 23 % rate in prices — the answer is that they cannot! ; secondly, how do they manage to internalize, at their costs, a rate of 23 % — the answer is that they cannot! And what is the result? Less than 26 400 jobs in one year compared to the same period between the fourth quarter of 2014 and the fourth quarter of 2013. The result, European statistics say, is a bankruptcy rate or risk of failure of 60 % — 60 % bankruptcy risk in this sector so crucial to the Portuguese economy! So tell us: to what extent is this good for the country? To what extent does this protect the country's economy? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u295	For an intervention, Mrs Elsa Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin my speech by greeting the petitioners, especially those present today, for their exemplary act of citizenship and participation in public life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u298	This is a pretension whose motivation we understand, so it deserves political thought. It should be noted from the outset that this claim, on the one hand, is decontextualized over time, because the aspirations of the petitioners were to generate this discussion during the debate of the State Budget for 2005, which happened because all the opposition parties submitted amendments to the lists annexed to the VAT Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u299	Now it's the trial!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u300	I have already had the opportunity to present the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group on this matter, which, moreover, remains. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the other hand, everyone — but all, without exception — we know that the sector of restoration has fallen on its profit margins which is not only due to the application of the normal VAT rate, mainly due to the breakdown of consumption and measures to combat fraud and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u301	Ah! They're all faggots!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u302	As the ladies and gentlemen explain. Members of the opposition that the professional qualification needs that the most needed companies are now in the restoration? I'm not the one saying, today there's a news in the paper, entitled Portugal needs what? More jobs in the restoration, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the effect of applying the normal VAT rate on restoration has already been absorbed. The market has been re-adapted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u303	To unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u304	Or someone in this House thinks if we were to get the restorative VAT back...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u305	That's offensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u306	At the intermediate rate, would prices be lower? Believe me, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to put the VAT on the restaurant at the intermediate rate again, would prices be lower?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u307	Try it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u308	Or would the Portuguese all run to the restaurants? They are the restaurant entrepreneurs themselves who say that they assume that they would not lower their prices if VAT were to be lower. Normally prices do not fall when VAT is low! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, returning the VAT of the restaurant to the intermediate rate represented only the sector's subsidy at the expense of all taxpayers, without exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u309	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u310	Subsidy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u311	I'm asking for a little more silence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u312	Thank you, Mr. President. Returning the VAT of the restoration at the intermediate rate represented only the sector's subsidy at the expense of all taxpayers, without exception, of lower income than those of higher income. No exception, Your Honor! That is what the PSD Parliamentary Group does not want. What we want is equity and fiscal justice. We want balanced public accounts. We want budgetary consolidation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u313	Lower the real estate funds!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u314	... in order to reduce taxes whether they are direct, whether they are indirect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u315	We want to hear her in the Algarve, in the election campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u316	As for VAT, what was desirable was...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u317	A single rate of 23 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u318	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u319	As for VAT, what was desirable was a single rate, much lower than the current rate. This is our commitment to the Portuguese: it contains public expenditure to lower the tax burden on companies in all sectors and of all Portuguese families. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u320	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating AHRESP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u322	Whose command? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u323	I mean, after hearing all the opposition — the advantage of being the last to speak — that whoever would, it would be good if the opposition had the same position as AHRESP has on this matter. It would be very useful for the debate. AHRESP has been proactive, has been able to defend the sector and sometimes has even been ahead in defending the sector—I remember that before talking about combatting fraud and tax evasion, AHRESP spoke in the « billing». When ASAE made a closed attack on the sector, it was AHRESP that achieved a balanced and sensible use of HCCP. I wish that the opposition had the same responsibility, rather than the demagogy and the somewhat normal and parliamentary policy, but the sector deserved a little more and a little better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u324	Demagogy! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u325	Therefore, I respect those who, responsibly and patrioticly did not hide themselves, did not escape the effort that was asked of all Portuguese and the restoration sector, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u326	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u327	We don't hide, we don't know what impact the Portuguese have had on the adjustment and balance of the public accounts we had to make. As we also do not hide that this sector—and those who are attentive, listen to the sector and do not come only to make proclamations of electoralist rhetoric, you always know—that it has asked for ease, for bureaucracy to be alleviated, for procedures to be simplified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u328	About that, we're talking on Friday!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u329	What has the government done, and this often happens in collaboration with and suggestion of AHREP? Exactly that: a closed attack on bureaucracy, and today the sector has much greater simplicity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u330	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u331	On the other hand, he says the sector, and he says the opposition, that the sector is having major funding problems. It's true. But that is why the government has a line, the Trade Invest line, with 1183 supported companies and EUR 60 million. So the government has recognized, evaluated and tried to solve problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u332	It's surreal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u333	...competition, transparency, financing, while we cannot solve a problem that has already been mentioned here—and I think that we all agree there—that when there are consolidated public accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u334	Where have we heard this before?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u335	... where there are legal conditions, in order to resume this discussion, the CDS Parliamentary Group will be here, not to come to the discussion of 'low VAT, because it has to go down' or 'increase, because it has to increase', but to make a comprehensive, clear, rigorous discussion of all VAT, in order to also be able to give competitiveness to the sector, help it and recognize the effort it has made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u336	For PPPs there is no shortage of money, but to download VAT is missing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u337	Therefore, the discussion must be conducted globally, in a coherent manner, as we have done in relation to the IRC, which uses the sector, as we have done in relation to the IRS, which, perhaps, benefits the sector, and as we have done in relation to tourism, because the action of the government, by protecting and enhancing the good results of tourism, obviously which, directly or indirectly, ends up benefiting the sector. What I have to say to AHRESP and its representatives, the entrepreneurs, is very much obliged to have helped the government and the country get out of the bankruptcy that others have left.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u338	Download VAT is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u339	Cinism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u340	We do not forget this effort and we will be here to deal with it in due course and do what the sector deserves. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u341	We also have the inscription of Mr João Ramos and Mr José Luís Ferreira. I stress that they both have very little time. Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Elsa Cordeiro and Mr Hélder Amaral spoke in decontextualization and mentioned that this discussion is out of time. It seems to me that who is out of time is the government, the PSD and the CDS. You have a report from an interministerial group to comply with since August 2013, so do not now say that who is out of time is AHRESP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u343	We discussed three months ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u344	The CDS has already defended and presented proposals in this Assembly of the Republic to reduce the VAT of restoration from 13 % to 6 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u345	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u346	From 13 % to 6 %! And now you refuse to lower your VAT to 13 %! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u347	I'm asking for a little more serenity, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u348	We need to be serious about the discussions here in the Assembly of the Republic! Ladies and gentlemen, who talk so much about concern with AHRESP and appreciation... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u349	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a little more silence. So no one hears! I would like to tell you, Mr President, that you are out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u350	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll finish. You have so much concern with AHRESP, but fulfilling a claim from AHRESP does not do so. What they have done, on the contrary, and it is to regret, is to campaign to understand that all the entrepreneurs of the restoration are a bunch of jokes and go after them to campaign with the social communication to catch up on the issue of invoices.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u351	Be serious, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u352	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u353	That is why you are not serious. Seriousness and respect were required and the minimum they could do was to approve these projects so that the VAT of the restoration could fall to 13 %. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u354	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: by the way, this has not yet been the case. It was the troika, but the politics remained. Mrs Elsa Lamber, tax fraud and evasion are not called here. In fact, it is not necessary to be a fiscal law specialist to realize that the higher the tax rate, the higher the trend of tax evasion and escape. Mr Hélder Amaral, the « billing», then, is still less called here. Could the Government not have introduced this invoice procedure at the rate of VAT by 13 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u356	Did you hear anything about what I said or was you distracted?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u357	Where was it written that the fee needed to be 23% to order the invoice? Mr Hélder Amaral, it is very nice to hear you say that AHRESP has done a good job, that petitioners are right, but when it is time to vote, VAT will remain at the rate of 23 %. I just want to say what the government and this majority have achieved at the rate of VAT at 23 %: closure of micro and small restoration companies; extinction of thousands of jobs; generalization of daily dishes in most restaurants, because in the montres and at the doors of restaurants, where the dishes of the day were before, you can now read « To pass », « Closed », « Closed », « Pass ». This is what the government has achieved, in addition to having widespread the marmite of the troika which now, and since the troika has gone away, has ceased to be and has become the marmite not of Mr Hélder Amaral, but the marmite of the majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u358	In Korea, isn't there a marmita?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u359	That's because they forced the Portuguese generals to have to bring home marmite for lunch! This is a shame! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-18.u360	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded here the discussion of point 3 of our agenda. We will meet again tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the following agenda: In point 1, we will have an urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on public education and Portuguese qualification policies ; In point 2, we shall generally proceed to the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 825 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — In order to establish the principle of non- privatization of the water sector, amend Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( Approves the Water Law ), as amended by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ), 819 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring access by private companies to the economic activities of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ) and 821 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures public management of water supply, sanitation and solid waste ( BE); Section 3 is followed by the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 822 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminates commissions for early repayment and termination of the contract, also establishing the obligation and free issue of the distraction and declaration of settlement of the loan ( amendment to Decree-Law No 51 / 2007 of 7 March 2007 and Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 ( BE), 823 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the base account ( BE), 818 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of commissions, expenditure or other charges by the services provided under that account ( PCP ) and 826 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Simplification and standardization of the commissioning of deposit accounts in order ( amends Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 454 / 91 of 28 December ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our work is being completed. [[It was 18 hours and 51 minutes.]]
