ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I would ask the Secretary to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, Bill No 966 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Expands sources of social security financing ( CFP ), which falls to 5. a and 10. the Commission, and draft resolution No 1494 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reassess decisions on the characterization of the cultural occupation of rocklands ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Madam President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u3	I congratulate the members of the Government who are already with us for the debate, Mr. Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration. The agenda consists, as everyone knows, in an appeal to the Government, of appeal No 22 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On precarious employment ( BE). in this model of debate, as you all know, there are opening interventions by the initiative party and the government, followed by debate and a closing phase, which begins with the initiative party and ends with the government. I therefore give the floor to the Left Block, by Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is happening in Portugal in the field of employment is not a small variation, it is a fundamental transformation. Most of the active population in Portugal is unemployed or has precarious work. Only in official numbers are more than 700 000 unemployed. Of these, the majority are unprotected and do not have access to any unemployment benefit. If we add the unemployed to the disadvantaged, the long-term contracts, the green receipts, the underemployment, the trainees, the stockholders and the people in employment-inclusion contracts, we reach more than 2 million people. In other words, "unemployed" are most of the working class. Unemployment and precariousness are today the rule of the world of work. The arguments in favour of this profound change are a achievement. The first argument is that the precariousness of labour regulation creates jobs. Nothing more fake. In the last 12 years, Portugal has had three revisions of labour law, all with the aim of simplifying labour laws and with the justification that this would promote employment. The result is that in these 12 years unemployment tripled. The second argument is that precariousness would be a remedy for the injustice that young people would be victims. It is the theory of the war of generations, according to which the precariousness of the younger is the fault of the rights of the older, our parents and our grandparents. This argument calls for resentment to level down the rights of all and omits that precariousness is today a condition for all generations. Precautionary is not an antidote to unemployment, it is its predecessor. Precautionary is not a counterpoint to injustice, it is the generalization of injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u6	The third argument is that precariousness would be an inevitability, a demand for economics, globalisation, new forms of production, a kind of natural law. On the contrary, precariousness is a political choice with a clear objective: to lower wages and disarrange the forms of protection and solidarity that workers have built over decades. If not, how can it be explained that most of the precarious links in Portugal correspond to permanent functions? In fact, that most of the precarious links are even violations of the law, for which the Government closes its eyes scandalously? The temporary worker who is in the call center, the school employee who is in employment-insertion contract, the green receipt teacher, the trainee in a supermarket box, occupy permanent needs. In most cases, it is not the tasks that make them temporary, it is the bond and it is the contract. Over the past four years, the policies promoted by the government, restrictive policies, have not only increased unemployment, have also made the unemployed most unprotected and have continued to treat them as criminals who have to present themselves from 15 to 15 days in a board. But in addition to unemployment, what happened was a real degradation of work. Examples from the IEFP website : a worker in Mangualde, working for an ETT ( temporary work firm) that rents him to be, in fact, working for a car component company, and earns 372, 48 € monthly salary, which, with subsidies, makes 491 € ; a building engineer, working eight hours a day, with basic salary of 300 € per month; a basic education teacher, of 2. o is 3. the cycle, eight hours a day, with base salary of 505 € per month. This is the state of the labour market today. It's a shame and it can't live. The average salary for jobs created since 2013 is €581 gross per month. That is, discounted contributions, there is little more than 500 € of average salary. For those who enter the labour market today, have a degree or a master's degree, the minimum wage is what awaits you. The wages in Portugal have never been so low. Minister, the employment model that you have created is based on poverty. More than 10% of Portuguese workers are poor and 25% of those below the poverty threshold are precarious. In view of this, Mr Prime Minister said that «the cost of work for companies is still very high » and that lowering the cost of work « is the reform that we have failed to complete ». See job announcements. Let's look around. Work today does not allow to escape poverty. But we also look at Eurostat's data. The cost/hour of work in Portugal is half of the practice in the country here next to and less than half of the euro area average. But the government thinks we need to go down even further. How long, Minister? When you're gonna be satisfied, sirs. Members of the majority? Precautionary is not a fatality of the economy, it is a political choice, and in Portugal it has been spread first because of the transgression of the law. The law is violated daily but nothing happens: almost 700 000 false green receipts that should have contracts and nothing happens; more than 300 000 temporary workers, most of which are false and should have contracts in the company where they work. That is, it's a choice. The government stimulates precariousness, closes its eyes and does not provide means to whom it can guarantee compliance with the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The reports of the Working Conditions Authority are clear: requests for intervention increased by 30 % but inspection visits decreased by less than half. In 2011, 74,600 establishments had been visited by the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ), and in four years the number fell below 30 000. Portugal precarious is a huge job offshore in which the law is not met, in which it is easier to close a coffee for having a wooden counter than for having a worker without a contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u8	The government closes its eyes, does not give the ACT and does not hire inspectors. Portugal is the country of labour impunity. The second characteristic of precarious Portugal is that the State continues to be the largest employer of precariouss, directly responsible for about 160 000 precarious jobs, between green receipts, advances, employment-inclusion contracts or internships. The government sets the example, the worst possible. In recent years it has always been getting worse. The so-called active employment policies actively lead to wage devaluation. Who hires a forest engineer, for example, when there are 600 € internships, of which more than 400 € are paid by the Employment Institute? It is the very definition of employment that is being challenged. The idea that the provision of a job corresponds to a contract and a remuneration, for this right-wing majority is an idea of the Memory channel. Examples: employment-inclusion contracts, for which the Ombudsman has already come to the attention, condemning them and saying that they are abuse. But in social security, in the National Health Service, to attend museums, everywhere, there are people who work in the state without receiving a salary. In 2014 there were 75 403 people in these conditions. Another example: internships. Today, the jobs that exist are employment-insertion contracts for older and younger people. Examples of internships: "Receionist with manager profile for medical clinic. High management capabilities, high computer knowledge, ability to mark and demarcate consultations with some skill, taste for strategy, strong valence of interpersonal relationship. Full time. IEFP Stage; « Cleaning Officer, with own car. Full time. IEFP internship scholarship; « Electrotechnical engineer with immediate availability for telecommunications projects. Full time. Traineeship». In Faurécia, a company of car components, they are recruiting trainees for everything: production supervisor, production quality and customer, laboratory technician, maintenance technician, logistics supervisor, supplier. It's all stages! The stages, which were created to be a first contact with the world of work, to be a trampoline for a job, today, are a trap for precariousness. And it is not worth it, Minister, to return with the language that 7 out of 10 trainees are employed. It's 3 in 10 as the official numbers say. A year later, these seven are working, but nothing tells us it's in the same company, nothing tells us that it's not in a new stage. You have turned the country into an internship economy. Today, all are internships, and the internships do not serve to create jobs, they are a scheme to grant companies a subsidy. A company that can pay 300 €, with the state paying the rest, of course it compensates! The effect of the internships is to lower the value of wages and most trainees, with nine-month scholarships, nor does it remain in the company after not even entitled to unemployment benefit. Calling this a job policy is an anecdotal. So, Minister, you don't become a country, you become immigrants. An army of emigrants. Last Sunday, the Spanish state experienced a political earthquake. In the elections, the precarious and the unemployed beat their feet and the system shook. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In Barcelona, Ada Colau won the elections and the first measures are known: regularization of all precariouss and ending outsourcing; requirement for all companies with whom the Barcelona Chamber has a relationship to a guarantee that they do not have precarious workers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Don't tell us that basic things like these are impossible. It is impossible to live in a country that wants us slaves and treats us as disposable. There's no magic vans? Of course not. But if it is necessary to create jobs, they put the economy into creating jobs instead of providing austere supply; the minimum wage is raised, as was the commitment of social consultation; the temporary employment companies are limited, which do business to rent workers. If they respect the law, they hire inspectors for ACT and enforce the law. It ends with the false green receipts and creates a fair scheme of contributions rather than absurd steps which, above all, do not qualify for anything. If there are 70 000 people who are essential in public services, employment and employment contracts are transformed into employment contracts. And it ends with the abuse that has been widespread in the stages. The stages are not the solution to employment, they are the maximum symbol of the postponed life of a suspended generation, that is not asleep and that must be counter-attacked. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u9	I don't like teams playing defense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u10	At the opening of this debate, I give the floor to the Government, by the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security. You have the word. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of a modern labour market, with simplification of labour relations, represents the only economically efficient and socially just way out for the generations of Portuguese who are active, both today and tomorrow. Recent reforms under a tripartite agreement have been a significant step in the right direction. There has never before been such a structural agreement, as extensive and as deep with the social partners as that which this government has celebrated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u12	To strengthen that these reforms were carried out in close social dialogue is never too much, because these reforms that come from the understanding with which the workers and employers represent are effectively structural reforms. The social partners in Portugal, those with commitment capacity, had a sense of state, had commitment capacity for the nation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u13	Good message!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u14	And that must be recognised, because that is what is already bearing fruit for the Portuguese economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In Portugal, our labour market was characterized by a marked segmentation, by a high degree of rigidity. And we all recognize that segmented markets are ineffective, that labour market segmentation reduces job creation, promotes precariousness and is especially unfair to those who are younger. Portugal has advanced in a deep set of reforms to achieve a more prosperous labour market in job creation, more able to adjust to the pace of change in the global economy, more friendly to innovation, investment and entrepreneurship. And some of the positive effects are already beginning to feel. In part, in the face of the labour reforms that we have been able to introduce, always in dialogue and consultation with the social partners, and which today begin to bear fruit. But the most substantial part comes from the merit of companies, from the resilience of their workers, from the capacity of our entrepreneurs. These positive effects arise from the ability of companies to reinvent themselves, to adapt to the market and to demand, to the competence of their workers to adapt to the new requirements, to the skilled and exemplary labour force that Portugal has. It was the effort of all the Portuguese who freed us from the troika and brought us back to recovery. It was this effort and merit that strengthened growth. It is because of this effort that we have to ensure that history does not go back and repeat itself. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u15	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now talking about employment, job creation, so that there are no other effects to support the recovery we have been witnessing. In view of the first quarter of 2013, more than 123 000 jobs were created in Portugal. The population employed full-time since the first quarter of 2013 has increased by 170 000 Portuguese. In 2014, employment with a contract of permanent employment ( i.e. stable employment within the framework of a firm and not precarious ) increased by more than 180 000. And the number of employees with term contracts increased by 64 000. This means that, for each job created, supported by term contracts, almost three jobs were created, based on permanent working relationships, supported by non-term contracts. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The underemployment of part-time workers, the number of people working part-time would like to work full-time, has also decreased in this period. The population who had the most opportunities was exactly the one with the level of higher qualifications and with secondary and post-secondary education, which also reflects a bet on an economy of qualification and knowledge and which rewards those who have striven to achieve these skills.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u17	And all this recovery is also reflected in contributions to the social security system, which rise in value and number. Allow me, in fact, to take advantage of the opportunity to give you an account of the following: compared to last year, contributions have come up at a rate of 4, 4 % per month. It is around EUR 190 million compared to the same period in 2014. It is, in fact, more than 160 million in 2010. It is therefore the best quadrimaster value in the last six years. For the first time, over the past six years, contributions will exceed EUR 14 billion. And since we know the importance of these contributions to ensure the sustainability of social security, we have also been working to improve that same contribution. Always with a special sensitivity, we allowed those who had debts to social security to regulate their obligations. To this end, we have increased, already twice, by dilating them over time, the performance plans of natural persons, which today reach a maximum of 150 benefits. And since we know that there are also many companies interested in regularizing their situation but who are facing difficulties to do so, let me announce here that the Council of Ministers has adopted today an amendment which allows companies now to benefit from up to 150 benefits to regularise their debt to social security, which represents a relief without losing responsibility. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This helps businesses, which may even be able to apply for Community funds, helps to maintain employment and also helps to increase social security contributions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have therefore, as I told you, more and better employment. And contrary to the idea that the Left Block brought, we have, with more flexibility, more employment and more quality employment. Of course, unemployment figures are still very high. There are still many families, many Portuguese people affected by unemployment, Portuguese people waiting for an opportunity, who hope to be able to enter the labour market. But it is precisely for these people that we want to continue to work. It's because of them that we've been reducing unemployment. And we will do so - by consolidating reforms made, by active employment measures and by supporting the recruitment we have been developing. We will do it - through the Youth Guarantee programme, which today - allow me to announce it here too - already covers more than 300 000 young people in Portugal. In fact we have surpassed the barrier of the 300 000 young people covered, and we will, and perhaps even exceed, meet the target we had of 375 000, to which we commit ourselves to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u18	Hey! So much! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u19	But also for a different and especially difficult reality, which is long-term unemployment, we have established the Reativar programme, which translates into training in a business context so that those who are over 30 years old and have been out of the labour market for more than 12 months may have the guarantee of training for at least six months in a business environment, which translates into a total investment of EUR 43 million. We will do it - we will also do it through support for geographical mobility to the unemployed, or we will create increases in support for the Employment Stimulus. We will continue to do so because the positive effects come home to the Portuguese. More than 114 000 Portuguese were covered by internships, in the last two years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u20	Is that the future? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u21	... and about 70 % of them were integrated into the labour market, either in the company where they were working, or in another one, at the end of six months.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u22	Show the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u23	Some are integrated immediately after the internship; and others in the following months. And it is this employability that, at the end of six months after the internship,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u24	Show the numbers! If you don't show the numbers, they can be forged things!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u25	... effectively demonstrates that it makes sense to give an opportunity, especially to younger people, to be able to show within the labour market its quality and value. But there is also a benefit to the beneficiaries of the Estimulus measures which in 2014 were more than 35 000 and which, in my view, allow me to highlight most of them to conclude contracts without end. More specifically, of these 35 000, 52 % concluded endless contracts and only 48 % concluded term contracts. This proportion is particularly important, not only by the job achieved, not only by the safety of that job, but also because, according to studies, workers with permanent contracts receive, on average, 16 % higher wages than those employed in the future. That is to say, with these contractual support, we are able to create new jobs, better jobs, more stable jobs, jobs that are not precarious, but lasting. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I continue to say that we cannot resign. As long as unemployment is at these high levels, we have to work, work and work for it to decrease. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u26	And we want to do so, even in places where, because there is no more robust business fabric, there is greater difficulty in returning to the labour market. For this reason, we have launched a set of measures to support geographical mobility, and we also want to encourage local-based self-employment and entrepreneurship. We will create a network of support for the creation of enterprises, self-employment and entrepreneurship, which will be stronger. We want to do so in partnership with local authorities, in particular local authorities and social institutions, so that greater monitoring of those who see self-employment is possible to leave unemployment. We want this network to reach many more projects. That is why we are going to increase the network of institutions that, with the IEFP, provide this direct support and the projects we want to boost, with a total value of EUR 2 million. But at the same time, we also want to strengthen the GIP network (professional insertion offices) that we have in the country. At the very shortest stage, new applications will be opened to professional insertion offices. We want this development of employment support structures to exist and will therefore invest more than EUR 3 million in creating new offices. But we also want to change the model of the functioning of the insertion offices, strengthen their network and cooperation with the different entities and integrate a model of offices into local social development contracts and the local social intervention network, so that its effect is more expressive. This is exactly how we can speak not only to those Portuguese who have found an opportunity, but above all to those Portuguese who want to return to the labour market, who want the labour market to give them a chance for the first time. This is where we're working. It is this hope that we want to give the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u27	They signed up to request clarification from the Minister, 10 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The government bench has already informed the Bureau that it will respond to the set of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. So, the first five are the gentlemen. Mr Mariana Aiveca, from BE, Rui Pedro Duarte, from PS, David Costa, from PCP, Raúl Almeida, from CDS-PP, and José Luís Ferreira, from Greens. Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u28	Mr President, Minister, you have come here to give us a presentation on recent labour reforms, saying that they meant a relevant step and in the right direction. And he finished his speech by calling for confidence and for Portuguese workers. Minister, I must tell you that what you're going to sell out there is contradictory to what you just sold in here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u29	So I will remind you of the official documents, IGCP documents, which are the documents that serve as the basis of what you say when you go abroad talking about Portugal. And when you go there, Minister, I will have to tell you that you will boast, for example, that collective bargaining has decreased. And I am talking about an official document submitted by your Government, which tells us by mouth that the collective contract in Portugal covered more than 1, 2 million workers in 2010 now covers 194 000 workers—and presents this as very good for investing in Portugal. Then, more recently, and using the same source, the Minister went to boast outside that the reforms of the labour market — see only, Minister! — have weakened the protection of workers in individual and collective dismissal. The Minister went outside to say: « come here, because saying goodbye in Portugal is easier, cheaper and gives millions». And Mr.Minister is also going out there to sell that labour costs have fallen, in Portugal, dramatically since 2011. This is the propaganda that makes out there, precisely in the opposite direction of what he told us today, with words that even seem beautiful, when he says that this reform is bearing fruit to the Portuguese economy. Question: fruit for whom? It will not be sure for workers and workers in your country. So, today, he came here to make us a political outrage. He came to say that the reforms went in the right direction, they were job creators, creators even more confident, exalting social consultation, and, when he goes out, he says the opposite. But in addition to this first question, and because Mr Minister is also Minister for Social Security, I cannot help but make you another one. Since we had the Minister of Finance here yesterday, I would like to hear a comment on the issue of the famous 600 million euros in social security cuts. It is that the Minister said in several places—and, as you know, are official reports of official events in the PSD area—that would have to be cut in pensions. And yesterday, I said it. The Minister is the Minister of Pensions. In fact, you have a long history that carries on your shoulders, because you were the pensioner's party. Having arrived at the government, it has changed its needle, but since it carries this story, please tell the 3 million pensioners who may be resting there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u30	Mr Rui Pedro Duarte has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u31	Mr President, Minister, in a debate on the fight against precariousness, which is intended to be about decent working conditions, among which labour costs, we very sincerely hoped that, in its initial intervention — which was, moreover, a beautiful exercise of rhetorical parkour — the Minister might have had the opportunity to come and tell Mr. Prime Minister about that famous conviction, recently made public, that the only reform that he failed to do in this legislature was to lower the costs of work in Portugal. It is only that, as we know and are public, Mr Minister, the ministers of this government are at the mercy of each other and this time, if they had done so, it would be even for good reason. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to start with a happy episode, which, like many novels, has come to have very unfortunate outcomes, or rather, has not yet had any happy outcome, which is that of the law against precariousness, adopted unanimously in this Parliament, and which determines special responsibilities for the act, in particular with regard to the application of the procedural regime. After this law passed in Parliament, the Minister will understand that the Portuguese outside, at home, will ask who guarantees its application on the labour market. The law answers: the Working Conditions Authority. What does the government do? Cut under the terms of the Working Conditions Authority to do its own work: they are less than 145 inspectors during the past four years, less than 20 %, at the service of this new law. We know that we are in the days of popular saints, but does the Minister believe that it is because of "the work of the holy spirit" that the Labour Conditions Authority will do its work if the government does not bet on resources and not give it resources? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, secondly, I would like to ask you a question about the Youth Guarantee. I begin by saying that the Minister has made a lot of propaganda about the Youth Guarantee, but the fact is that we have two official rates of placement, of setting trainees in companies: one of the IEFP, of about 30 %, and one of the words of the Minister, of about 70 %. Therefore, it was good to start by clarifying to us the rate of placement of young people after the completion of these same stages. The question I want to ask you is about the execution data. It's just that, Minister — stop it! — looking at the figures in the IEFP's Monthly Physical and Financial Implementation Report in December 2014, the programme was €69 140, of which only 21 % were executed in a total of €14 591, having been almost entirely executed until December, because by the end of November only €178 were executed. Mr Minister, the question I would like to ask you is not whether you consider this rate of execution satisfactory—surely you consider. In addition, given the state of the economy, it considers the implementation rate very satisfactory. But this is not the general view of the Portuguese youth or the Socialist Party. The question I want to ask you is why we do not discuss the 2015 implementation rates. Because in 2015 the government opted to account for the implementation rates of this programme in a non-autonomous way, mixing them with other IEFP statistical data ; there was no clarity on the implementation of the Youth Guarantee programme. Mr Minister, I would like to see you in these very clear answers to the questions you have asked. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u32	The Bureau considers that the times of questions are discounted in general time. Even so, we ask the gentlemen. Members who do not show themselves too much in time to distribute the debate. In the order of inscriptions for clarification, Mr David Costa. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u33	Mr President, Minister, at the end of four years, you and your PSD/CDS government cannot hide what is in view of all Portuguese: job insecurity in Portugal has increased exponentially by the hand of this right-wing policy, as a result of the options of this government, which is undoubtedly one of the great dynamizers of the precariousness of our country's relations and working conditions. At the National Pension Centre, for example, after the reduction to about half of the employees in this service — and we are talking about more than 350 employees — what we are now witnessing in the performance of permanent work needs is workers with employment-inclusion contracts, Mr Minister. Can the Minister ignore or shake responsibility for the subsequent amendments to the Labour Code for easier and cheaper layoffs? You can't, Minister. Can the Minister ignore or shake responsibility for the dramatic increase in the use of false green receipts in employment benefits? You can't, Minister. You and your Government are responsible for perpetuating the instability of the employment bond, with increasing deadlines in the term contracts, with more extraordinary renewals, with the scandalous use of internships, temporary work, part-time work and employment-insertion contracts to meet permanent needs. Mr Minister, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic enshrines the right to work and the rights at work with which your PSD/CDS coalition Government has never complied. In addition to ruling against the Constitution, the PSD and the CDS-PP over these four years, what has been done to destroy the prospects for the future of young people and workers in general. Despite the false promises now made in time of elections, the PSD/CDS coalition government deliberately refused the future for young people when it denied stability in bonds and in hiring, when it imposed on the law wage cuts and income, forcing more hours to work for less pay, when it placed thousands of young people in this country under the false dilemma between unemployment or precarious work through the internship, employment-inclusion contract or temporary work. What we want you to tell us is how you expect the Portuguese to believe in your false speech that the country is better if the young people and the workers live worse, Minister? How do you expect the Portuguese to believe in your discourse of concern with the precariousness if your past and your actions are to exacerbate the precariousness, Minister? Oh, my God! What you have to propose to the Portuguese is in view of your action and it is neither future for the workers nor for anyone, Minister [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u34	Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u35	Mr President, Mr Minister, with the permission of the President, I would make a return here for a few minutes to the reality of asking Mr Minister questions and stressing two parts of Mr Minister's intervention which I consider particularly relevant. We know that companies, like citizens, have will, are aware, there is a general awareness of the need for fulfilling obligations with social security. The Minister said that there would be an extension of the deadlines for companies to be able to regulate their situation with social security. in this sense, he asked for more detail, more implementation of these measures, because it seems to me to be a decisive step towards thus also contributing to more fulfilling companies, to have a more healthy overall working environment and to the sustainability of social security. The Minister has also spoken in a way that we consider relevant, important and once again returning to reality, to unemployment, to interiority and to young unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u36	Ask the trainee conversion numbers there. That's what's important!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u37	Mr Minister, the approach he referred to and which seemed to us to be the most correct one is a fight against interiority by supporting structures that can help combat this interiority, promoting entrepreneurship, self-employment, helping micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to focus on less-favoured regions of the country and creating in social security support structures that can provide such development. Here too, Mr Minister, and back to reality, what this government has done, and which is very different from what has not been done in the past, I would like that to be more detailed and more concrete. Finally, combating job insecurity also goes hand in hand with the creation of measures that can help to discriminate positively against those who, by their most fragile nature, are in a position of clear inequality in the market before the other workers. We recognize the efforts of many existing measures and also the creation of new measures. I would like to point out, as some of the most significant, training for people with disabilities, adaptation of jobs and architectural barriers, support for the placement and follow-up and post-location of workers, the placement stage for people with disabilities and disabilities, protected employment centres, which, I remember, Mr Minister, were still seriously threatened at the end of the previous government mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u39	I also remember employment contracts supported by employers, vocational rehabilitation centres and units and participating management centres. Mr Minister, in addition to these measures, we must not forget the Qualifying Programme for Inclusion. Here too, and following a discussion we had last week, this is another measure for the empowerment of these people. With regard to the pilot project, also claimed by the opposition, Qualifying for Inclusion, as much as we know, the 2014 numbers are encouraging and motivating to meet the future of these measures as being on the right track. Here too we ask you to give us details. These measures are characterized by having the following specificities: personalization of intervention, constituting a transition platform, promoting competences, being flexible and encouraging the integration of all its actors. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to ask: in this sense, as is the current overview of measures to support the inclusion in the labour market of disabled citizens and what figures can be advanced on the concrete implementation on the ground, because, as we know, Mr Minister, if nothing had been done, if this Government had not taken the measures it took, the picture would be quite disappointing and today it is working in the right direction. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u40	Before giving the floor to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I inform the House that we have on the diplomatic bench a representation of Palestinian parliamentarians, whom we welcome. [[General applause, stand up.]] We will then continue the debate. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u41	Mr. José Luís Ferreira (The Greens). — Madam President, Minister, this government has put the precariousness of taking into account the working reality of our country, and the Minister has the need to come here today to say that we have more and better jobs. Mr Minister, this statement is only acceptable if it is said under mental reservation, because otherwise it is a tremendous lie. The professional stages, the part-time work, the term work, the temporary employment contracts, the false green receipts are the « dish of the day », are dominating labour relations in Portugal, and the Minister tells us that today there is more and better employment! Mr Minister, there are several studies and reports of different entities that point to the same point: on the one hand, they place Portugal at the summits regarding precarious employment and on the other hand clearly point out that this is a reality that has gained weight and taken on truly frightening proportions, especially with this Government of the PSD and the CDS. Portugal today has 1, 3 million workers with precarious links. It is a truly dramatic number and for which this government has been making a decisive contribution to a pace that is above 30 000 cases per quarter. According to the government itself, more than 600 000 Portuguese people work part-time, 15 % of young people in Portugal do not study or work and are licensed and, as the OECD says, these numbers are not only a personal disaster as a wasted investment. Today, precariousness and unemployment reach more than half the active population, and even more stable workers are more unstable than ever. In the face of this degrading picture, what does the government do? The Government has made the Working Conditions Authority virtually inoperative for lack of staff, promotes policies to stimulate employment which are true incentives to precariousness, therefore promotes work insecurity, promotes work without rights and promotes low wages policy. Since 2011, therefore, since this government took possession and until today, wages in the public sector have fallen 26 % and in the private sector have fallen 13 %. Worse: precarious workers in Portugal receive only 60 % of what other workers receive. Mr Minister, it is not the opposition that claims it, it is not the Greens who say it, it is data from the International Labour Organisation. Mr Minister, the false green receipts constitute a demanding precautionary strategy, violate the law and do not respect the most basic rights at work. Without any protection, workers are illegally removed from the enjoyment of holidays and from the right to Christmas and holiday benefits. They are therefore illegal contracts that violate the law and are false. With regard to temporary work, which is only flexible because it promotes easy and cheap layoff and saves users’ companies who consider it to be cost-effective to direct hiring of workers, it is also, in most cases, abuse and violation of the law, because it aims to satisfy permanent needs. On the other hand, just like long-term contracts. We are therefore witnessing an attempt to make precarious the rule of labour relations, and that is precisely why a serious fight against this serious problem is called for, until increasing precariousness increases unemployment. This means that, by combating precariousness, we are also fighting unemployment. Mr Minister, I ask you: what measures has the Government already developed or is still thinking about combating job insecurity? Another question: what does the government intend to do to ensure that the law is fulfilled, to put the truth to work relations? We're talking about fake contracts, Minister! So tell us what the government wants to do to combat precariousness and to put the truth to work relations! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u42	To reply, Mr. Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u43	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr Mariana Aiveca, Rui Pedro Duarte, David Costa, Raúl de Almeida and José Luís Ferreira. Mrs Mariana Aiveca, as you know, this government has made a profound change in the labour system, in the Labour Code, but it has not done so alone. Although many of these measures were negotiated by the former Government with the troika and included in the Memorandum of Understanding which the Portuguese State had to comply with, this Government chose to discuss these matters at the appropriate headquarters, which is social dialogue with the social partners. And he has reached an agreement with all the social partners, who have a sense of commitment and, in this sense, have even a patriotic spirit, a truly patriotic feeling. Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we are starting to have the fruit of this job reform. Interestingly, the fruits of this work reform are exactly the opposite of what the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Party said. I would like to draw your attention to the following: Mrs Mariana Aiveca: from the first quarter of 2013 to today, around 123 000 jobs have been created. contrary to what the Left Block, The Greens and the PCP said, 170 000 full-time jobs were created, much more than those that were created in part-time. Very relevant also, Mrs Deputy, is that 180 000 jobs have been created without end, stable within the framework of companies. In contrast, only 64 000 were created in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u44	Speak of the percentages!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u45	Madam Member, this means that today, in view of the labour reform that has been done, the Portuguese economy is able to generate more quality and stability, which, as you know, did not happen in the past. She certainly does not question the data of the National Institute of Statistics. The data I just mentioned are INE!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u46	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u47	What is very relevant to us is that we must continue to work and give hope to Portuguese people who want to enter the labour market and who can now look more hope for the future. Responding also to Mr Luís Ferreira, I would say that they cited international studies and even cited an OECD study, but, curiously speaking, it is the OECD that says that these measures have decreased, on the one hand, the segmentation that existed in Portugal — and this is especially important for younger workers — and, on the other hand, have helped productivity and growth in our economy. And it is with this spirit that we must continue to work. I found it very curious that Mrs Mariana Aiveca, also above all in a debate convened by the Left Block, probably the precarious debate should be running very well at BE..., decided to ask a question entirely next to the pension system. [[BE's protests.]] I was very curious that, in a debate marked by BE on the subject of precariousness, the honourable Member wanted to talk about something else. This theme is so important to the Left Block that you chose to talk about other topics. Maybe even today we'll talk about football or other things that might happen in the country or out there. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] But I am not going to run to your question, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u48	So say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u49	Today, there is no pensioner who is subject to the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity), with the exception of persons with extraordinarily high pensions, i.e. more than € 4611. The honourable Member cannot say that this is due solely to the Constitutional Court because, as you know, the Government in the proposal it sent has already recovered from 45 % to 75 % of the ESC value. And I draw attention to the fact that the ESC only affects 5 % of social security pensioners. Therefore, 95 % of social security pensioners were excluded from any measure. What the Government has said and written a year ago in the Stability Programme and what it says today is exactly the same: changes to the public pension system must be made with political consensus, including with the largest party in the opposition or with other parties that are available, as well as with the social partners. That is why, at the moment, there is no action to be discussed, there is no proposal to be tabled. I want to say with all clarity that I understand that there are those who, in Portuguese society, realize that values such as prediction, confidence and stability are fundamental to all, but especially to pensioners, want to scare people. [[BE's protests.]] Mrs Mariana Aiveca, in terms of history, I only say one more thing: as you know, it was this government — it was no other — fulfilling the promise she had made, which has managed to increase, with great significance, the minimum social and rural pensions, those that are received by the poorest of the poor in Portuguese society. It was not the Left Block that presented these measures, it was a Government of a majority PSD / CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I now answer Mr Rui Pedro Duarte's questions, which I take advantage of to congratulate. Mr President, I would like you to make a point with me: I have heard, yesterday, Dr. António Costa say that lowering work costs is good — zig! Today, Mr Rui Pedro Duarte has come to say that lowering work costs is bad — zague! They also consider that taking 14 billion euros out of social security, which affects the social security system, is good — zig! And they consider that lowering labour costs, if proposed at the moment by the government, is bad—sague! We are fully aware of the zig/zague consistency that the Socialist Party has in this matter, Mr President! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As for data from the Youth Guarantee programme, there is also, by the way, a great difference between the Socialist Party's bench and the Government's bench. You know, Mr President, when we built the Guarantee Youth programme — and Portugal has a lot of responsibility for building a programme like this — we clearly said that it could not be, or should it be, in particular because we are talking about people under the age of 30, focusing solely on job offers. It must also be focused on vocational training; on education programmes, such as the Retomar programme, which allows many young people who have left school to return; on vocational secondary courses which are managed by the Ministry of Education; and on education and training courses for young people and adults, which are fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u50	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u51	Therefore, when you look at the data from the Youth Guarantee, you should not forget that this program also has a very large participation from the Ministry of Education. If you add these data to the data you cited, and if you know how to count well, which is not always traditional in the Socialist Party, you will reach the same conclusion, which are the official conclusions. With regard to professional internships, there is also a great difference between the government's bench and the Socialist Party's bench. It is that for us professional internships are a way of entering the labour market, they are a guarantee of entry into the labour market. And about 70% of these people are left six months later on the labour market. Who says that is not me, Mr, Mr, the IEFP, who Mr, quoted. In reply to the matter relating to the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ), I do not think it is surprising that after the Government has announced the strengthening of the framework of the Act's inspectors to 42, the honourable Member will speak on this matter. This is called a very simple thing: the government acts, the Socialist Party reacts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u52	Mr David Costa asked me questions on the subject of internships, which I have already answered. I would like to say to Mr Raúl de Almeida the following: it is very important that we be able to stimulate the economy of our companies — including our private ones, but above all, the economy of our companies — to find a way to honour their commitments, the commitments they have to social security and, at the same time, to keep companies working and in a position to apply for Community funds. That is exactly why it is so important, right now, we can increase from 120 to 150 months the time of performance plans. It is a very important help for companies, for the maintenance of employment, so that we can raise money for social security and ensure the projection and sustainability of the system. We also know that, from the point of view of active employment policies, we need to be able to do more. Therefore, in addition to the measures I have mentioned, I would like to draw attention to the measures that have to do with the creation of a network of support for entrepreneurs, people who want to promote their self-employment, and the reformulation of professional integration offices. As such, we will devote about EUR 5 million to the amendment of these two matters. When I use the word again, I will return to this and other questions to which I have not had the opportunity to answer now. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u53	We continue with the second round of questions, which will have the following order: Mr José Moura Soeiro, BE, Mrs Lurdes Ribeiro, PCP, Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, PSD, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, BE, and Mrs Paula Santos, PCP. That is why Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u54	Madam President, it is curious to hear the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security say that employment and social security are two issues that have nothing to do with, as if the problem of social security does not exactly result from unemployment, low wages and as if your social security policy was not driven by obsession with reducing labour costs! The Minister spoke about the employment in Portugal and the quality of that job. We know, Mr Minister, that hundreds of thousands of people have emigrated and that there has actually been a job replacement. Mr. Minister spoke of quality. I wanted to ask you, then, if you have any idea of the wages of that job you were talking about. It is that 581 € is the average value of the gross salary of jobs created since 2013! That is, your model of work and employment is based on poverty, promotes poverty! ILO (International Labour Organisation) data show that 10 % of workers are poor and 25 % are precarious, which means that, even though they are working, they do not earn enough to get out of the poverty line. Mr Prime Minister said that the cost of work in Portugal is still very high. Mr. Minister didn't comment on this, but I will insist. Mr Prime Minister said: 'The cost of work is still very high, that is the reform that we have not yet been able to complete'. I ask you, Minister: what is to be completed? Is it going down to how much? Is it to promote the poorer wage earners and the more poorer workers? Mr President, we have heard here about the Youth Guarantee programme and the internship programme, but I would like to talk about employment. I don't know if you've already had the opportunity to visit the IEFP website, for example, and see the job offers there — 300 €, 400 €, 500 €, 600 €! The job you have created is low wages and the alternative they are promoting is that of the internships, but 70,000 traineeships are not jobs! Employment is when a job corresponds to a contract and social protection and when this work is a platform of dignity and rights. Employment-inclusion contracts and internships are not jobs and the State continues to set the worst example and to be a central precarious agent — 160 000 precarious jobs of the State's direct responsibility. So I ask you: is it available to prohibit the use or use of temporary ETTs in public bodies? Is it available to hire people who perform permanent functions and who are in employment-inclusion contracts? Is it available to ensure that at least one in two trainees is hired by the company and that the internships are seriously monitored? That, yes, would be the minimum of respect for employment. Finally, I wanted to talk to you about impunity: precariousness in Portugal is largely due to legal transgression. Portugal has become a free zone of labour law. Even when the law protects us, the law is not respected, the government closes its eyes and gives no means for the law to be fulfilled. Mr Minister, in accordance with the ILO criteria, Portugal needs at least 200 more inspectors for the Working Conditions Authority. And if there have been developments that resulted from the mobilization of precarious workers with a citizen legislative initiative of the law against precariousness, in order to be effective it requires that there be those who enforce the law. So I ask you: is the government available to hire the 200 inspectors who are missing from the ACT? Mr Minister, today's precariousness means, to a large extent, that Portugal has become a country of widespread labour crime and its government is responsible for this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u55	For a request for clarification, Mrs Lurdes Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u56	Mr President, Mr Minister for Labour and Social Solidarity, the CFP argues that for permanent needs they have to respond to effective links, as is the case with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. However, what is available throughout the Public Administration, in the Patron-State, are thousands of workers with precarious links, particularly in schools. We believe that it is the Ministry of Education that has more employment-inclusion contracts and term contracts. It is not that we have numbers, since we have asked the Minister for Education several times, but he always refused to respond. [[It's the custom!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u57	We can give as an example some schools where the number of job-insertion and hourly contracts, for a seasonal period, are more than many, such as most schools in the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Maia. For example, the school of Maia Grouping Gonçalo Mendes da Maia, which VV. They want to municipalize, they have more than 30 employment-inclusion contracts. The Grouping of Rio Tinto 2 Schools in Gondomar also has more than 20 employment-inclusion contracts; at its headquarters are more employment-inclusion contracts than effective operational assistants. We are talking about non-teaching staff, but hired teachers, as you know, are more than many and so are many years in which these professionals are in this situation of professional and personal instability. We would like to ask the Minister what is the number of employment-inclusion contracts and term contracts that exist throughout the Public Administration and through ministries. If we continue without this answer, we are obliged to believe that the government will deliberately hide these numbers. For when is the opening of competitive procedures for the admission of workers with effective linkage to occupy all jobs that correspond to the permanent needs of public services? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u58	Also to ask for clarification, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u59	Mr President, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, in this debate on precariousness we always have trouble realizing what the Left Block wants to talk about. In fact, this became clear in this first part of the debate, since it is right that illegal issues should be considered and discussed seriously. In other words, matters which are illegal and which are treated as illegal are mixed here as if it were a normal policy or were dependent on the will of each other. This is the first problem and invalid as soon as you have a serious perception of what you want to discuss. It is not serious to talk about precariousness, using the slogans that will best fall into the propaganda we want to make. Mr José Moura Soeiro was still speaking on the issue of internships. I ask the Minister to clarify better that, if this type of value is on the IEFP website, it must necessarily correspond in part-time because, according to the rules, it is not possible that it does not match. But that is never said, because what matters, Minister, is to pass on the idea of fear and drama. They don't want to know what the Portuguese feel or think, what they mean is it's all wrong. Even if the data show that it is not all wrong and that we are walking to more and better jobs—as I said here—the point is to mix the data here in such a way that it seems the worst possible, because it is the worst possible that supposedly serves the electoral intentions of some benches. Mr Minister, is it true or not that this majority has grasped exactly what we have been talking about, creating a special process for the fight against false green receipts and, as you have already said — it has also been questioned again on this subject — by strengthening the Act so that it can actually monitor? And again, the false green receipts are illegal issues and, therefore, in what should be a discussion on precariousness, we should not even discuss this issue, which is an illegal topic. Even so, Minister, I would like you to tell us whether or not this government has created the unemployment allowance for young entrepreneurs, whom we have always talked about for so many years. It was a theme that, allegedly, fell very well during previous governance, but they never thought about guaranteeing unemployment benefit to these entrepreneurs. This government, even under the conditions in which it was, from the point of view of economic and financial assistance, made choices. So, this, or not, was it a choice of this government? Even on green receipts, such as we always want to get involved in more or less legal issues, was this government that instituted the unemployment allowance for self-employed people? On the other hand, Mr Minister, since we are talking about this issue of self-employed people, and precisely in order to control this issue of false green receipts, with regard to unemployment allowance, I would also like you to talk about the question of the annex to the IRS declaration, the SS Annex, which generated here the controversy that once again falls on this issue, the controversy that is created to create noise, so that no one knows the things that this government does, but so that it can, in some way, say that this is all wrong. I would like you to tell us what we are talking about: there has been some change, Mr Minister, between what happened in the previous year, with regard to Annex SS, and what happened this year? Or did it come out of the noise that was intended to be created on this subject and it was only the creation of an annex that would ensure that workers, on a matter of mis-burocratization, instead of completing two income statements, would fill one at a time? Is there any amendment that could justify controversy, except for this need to create noise around issues, so that the Portuguese do not understand what the issues are, in fact, that this government is doing exactly in favour of combating precariousness? Finally, Mr Minister, I wanted to leave two or three notes on the internships. It is remarkable, and speaking in such zighuzags, that they are the same ones that say that this government has to guarantee, it must ensure, that these 300 000 young people are told — in the case of the Youth Guarantee, to whom training and internships have been guaranteed so that the generation will not be lost, after previous governments have mortgaged the Country—... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... that the stages are a shame and that, after all, ensuring that this generation is not lost, because the country no longer leads to the opportunity, which is what the Portuguese need, through active measures to combat unemployment, is a bad thing. Mr Minister, please tell us that this is not the policy that this government is following. On the side of the PSD bench, let me tell you that we don't need to sell dreams, because of this, electoralist propaganda, are the other benches full. We, Mr Minister, rather than this government selling dreams, need to guarantee the conditions for the Portuguese to have the opportunity to comply. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u60	Also to ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u61	Mr President, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, time has come to make a review of the mandate and we are going to do it - looking at the data from the end of 2011 to the end of 2014 and what we have found - it has been, in fact, very repeated in this debate - that is what we can call the "paradigma Mota Soares". What is the "paradigma Mota Soares"? It is the paradigm of a government that welcomes the reduction in the number of unemployed in 73 000 from the last quarter of 2011 to the last quarter of 2014, but which at the same time reduces 244 000 jobs. How is this possible? How are unemployed people reduced to 74 000, while destroying between that quarter and the same quarter of 2014 244 000 jobs? It is the "paradigma Mota Soares". We looked at the unemployment rate and tried to understand this paradigm. And what we have found was the following: if we stick to unemployment and unemployment we add all those who have given up looking for employment since the last quarter of 2011, we find that the government has not actually reduced 74 000 unemployed, only 18 000 unemployed; if we take 18 000 unemployed and add the stages that the government has created in that period, we find that after all 18 000 unemployed have not actually created 24 000 unemployed ; if we catch in these 24 000 unemployed and add the socially necessary work, i.e. unemployed people or receive the RSI (social income for inclusion) that have to work for the state, we find that after all the government has not reduced to 24 000 unemployed, it has already increased to 41,000 unemployed ; and if we join those that the government has thrown for the underemployment in this period, we find that we do not have 41 000 more unemployed since the last quarter of 2011. Mr Minister, your government has not destroyed unemployment, created more unemployment, created more precariousness, created more internships. There are, in 2015 — and I did not count the unemployment that rose in 2015 — 1, 245 million people in this situation, 25% of the Portuguese active population is in this situation. Structural reforms, Minister? Oh, my God! The fruits of the state reforms? Oh, my God! Is this the strategy your Government has to combat unemployment? Is it to expect people to stop looking for and going out, to be swept away by statistics? Is it to expect people to give up and look for a part time for 300 € even stating that this is not enough to survive and, therefore, are they considered underemployed, but are they out of the unemployment statistics? Are these the internships? It is, Mr Minister, that at first there was a story that the internships were to integrate young people into the labour market. True, there was this story at first, and in many cases it was true, but today the internships are only a form of precarious work, subsidized by the State, half of the trainees had a job before. Where is the narrative of the insertion into the labour market? Half of the trainees have already had a job and are unemployed and have as their stage the only way to survive. Today there are long-term unemployed people who access internships. So the problem wasn't the insertion, the first job? How are we training people who have worked before or who have been unemployed for a long time? Minister, we want to know how much the government spends paying internships to SONAE, EDP, PT, BCP. How much does the government spend on paying traineeships to thousands of people who work and perform permanent and necessary functions in public service at the same time as it fires or does not renew contracts for thousands of workers who need the Public Administration? Mr Minister, please respond to this policy of handling polls to remove unemployed in polls, creating obstacles—and today no longer precarious—, trainees, who will never see a job with rights, a job with contract. Mr. Minister, there is a very curious and very interesting website of reporting of traineeships and precarious jobs. The website is called Winham Shame and, basically, Minister that is the message we wanted to leave to the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u62	To ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u63	Mr President, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, precariousness is a practice of government and a reality in many services of the National Health Service. In health centres and hospitals, services, employment-inclusion contracts or subcontracting of companies for the provision of health services continue to be provided for the performance of permanent functions. They are replaced by effective workers and rights by workers without rights and without working conditions. Mr President, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, do not talk to us about creating stable jobs when your Government uses and abuses precariousness to ensure the functioning of these health centres and hospitals. What has happened and continues to happen in the urgency of hospitals is a dramatic example of the government's options: services broken down, services without professionals, urgent health care dependent on the hiring of temporary workers or the subcontracting of doctors to ensure the operation of these services. Health professionals are placed who do not know the services, do not know their colleagues and are not integrated into the organization where they provide services, without also recognizing this hierarchy. Madam President, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, this model does not serve! It does not work for workers, because it does not guarantee them any kind of law and because it brings instability, dissatisfaction and demotiveness. It does not serve health services, because it brings instability to teams, lack of safety for the provision of quality health care, increased financial burden and increased levels of fatigue, anxiety and stress in professionals. It does not serve SNS users, because it brings a breach of confidence and questions the provision of quality health care, with effectiveness and in good time. Tell us, Minister : in the face of the reduction of more than 2000 operational assistants, more than 900 000 technical assistants and more than 1300 nurses only between 2011 and 2013, why did they not open public tenders for the hiring of these missing professionals in the SNS, integrating them into a career with rights? And tell us why they did not open these competitions when unemployment is so high in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u65	This political option of the Government has a very clear intention: to dismantle the SNS through the professional and social devaluation of health professionals. Mr Minister, tell us here, if you have the courage: the option for precariousness is the option for low wages, it is the option for withdrawal of rights, it is the option for disqualification of the SNS, and this is its option and the option of its government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u66	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Solidarity Minister, Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u67	Mr President, starting with questions from the Left Block, put forward by Mr. Mr José Moura Soeiro and Mr Mariana Mortágua, whom I thank—as well as all the other Members. Members — I was listening to them and there is one thing that seems very obvious: the Left Block still did not realize that in 2011 Portugal was placed on the brink of bankruptcy. This could mean we are no longer fulfilling our most basic and essential obligations, such as paying wages and social benefits, not having education, not being healthy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u68	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u69	Even today, after this government has managed to get the troika out of here, after this government has managed to take the troika to the door of the plane and close the Memorandum of Understanding, the Left Block remains unaware of all the things that have led the country to be near the bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u70	They were very high wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u71	What is the left block option in front of this? Stop paying our creditors, effectively putting the country in a situation where they cannot honour their commitments. That is why, Mr. José Moura Soeiro, there is a very big difference between this bench and the left block bench. It is because we understand — and this also responds to Mrs Mariana Mortágua — that who creates jobs is the economy, who actually has this ability to generate jobs is the economy, it is neither the state nor the state. If the State helps the economy create jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u72	It's not creating jobs, it's creating internships!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u73	... is doing something of the best that exists in European policies, which are active employment policies. And that is really very important. I would like to remind you of the salaries, Mr President, even though you do not think that you will understand, because you did not realize what happened in Portugal in 2011, that it was a previous government that entered into this Memorandum of Understanding that the national minimum wage could only be increased since there was a pre-authorisation by the troika. Do you now understand why it was so important that we could close this Memorandum of Understanding, that we could agree with social dialogue, with the social partners, that agreement which allowed us to make an increase in the minimum wage by 280 € per year, in order to effectively guarantee protection for workers, but we do not also question Portuguese productivity? Oh, my God! It is precisely thus working with social consultation, especially in this case, with the General Workers' Union, which, in this agreement of the minimum wage, had a very important and very relevant role, which we were able to recover the income of the Portuguese. But the Left Block is, in fact, a little distracted. It is that the Left Block now proposes that, for each of the two professional stages that are done, a person should be hired. Mr President, I have good news to tell you: this has already happened, it has been a measure of this government and it is now in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u74	The problem is, it doesn't happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u75	With regard to the issues of the CFP, particularly those of Mrs Lurdes Ribeiro and Mrs Paula Santos, the Secretary of State of the Public Administration, if I allow you time, so I have to be quick to finish, will talk about public employment issues and, to that extent, I will keep the answer to that point. As regards the questions of Mrs Joana Barata Lopes, in fact, at the moment, Mrs Deputy, looking at the numbers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, what happened in Portugal in the last eight quarters was that it has greatly increased the work of workers on behalf of others, i.e. of the workers in the framework, who are working for the companies, and has reduced the number of workers in the green receipt, which, of course, also means that the measures we have taken, from incentives to term contracts, to combat green receipts, help a number of people who were in a green receipt situation to get out of this situation. In fact, Mrs Deputies, I assure you that it was this majority and not another who had the ability to give effective social protection to these workers, who were discounted like others, paid their contributions like the others and did not have the right to protection in unemployment, when this situation really happened. It was this majority, even in a very difficult time, that managed to do so, it was neither the Socialist Party nor the PCP nor much less the Left Block. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the period of intervention, for which the Bureau is already registering the entries of the Members. Deputies Pedro Delgado Alves and Pedro Roque. For now, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Members of the Government : The issue we are discussing today is an undeniable opportunity, and therefore we welcome the Left Block for this agenda. It is an unfortunate characteristic of our modern times the precariousness and the way in which it penalizes youth, mortgages the future and changes dramatically—at least, it runs the risk of drastically changing — our social model. But we must not accept precariousness as a fatality, we must not accept precariousness as an inevitability, we must have the capacity to build public policies that respond to precariousness and address its eradication. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we look at the Portuguese framework, about 40% of those who work are in employment with precarious characteristics, in the multiple and various forms that this debate has revealed. More than that: According to official data, 90 % of the contract itself is contracted over time and of these only 15 % end up being converted into permanent contracts. Since 2012, the weight of non-permanent contracts has always increased, a reality which, rather than improving, is a reality that, in addition to the already difficult situation facing the country, by its peripheral position, by the context of a country placed in the turbulence of the sovereign debt crisis and after a rescue almost strictly based on austerity, it is still an option, which is voluntary accession by the Government, to a strategic vision in which the embarrassment of work is the way to a promised "El Dorado" of economic growth, which throws out the bet on qualifications as a differential factor and that the exchange for low wages, in a completely voluntary way, as if it were a solution. This is in fact the portrait and path of this precarious Portugal, which is not a side effect of government policies, is a direct effect, to some extent, on government policies, which look at the flexibility, to break the robustness of labour legislation as an advantage, rather than being a challenge that makes the lives of workers difficult. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To these multiple dimensions of precariousness — the lack, the absence of labor ties, the very weakening of the content of labor bonds, when they exist and, for example, are hampered by individual hourly banks, by the devaluation of collective bargaining — we have added still wage precariousness, either through the policy of cuts, either by the mere situation of this government, who now, finally, tries to boast of something to which he has resisted until the last hour, even when employers, even when unions ask him, who was the increase of the minimum wage, as the only fair condition to increase incomes—even to this he resisted to the last and was dragged by the hair until he was able to make that increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Even this is revealing that these are political options and, as they are political options, they must be fought politically, rejecting the false, wrong idea of combating unemployment with precariousness, as if it were not two problems, two problems that both have no answers, two problems that both at the same time need appropriate public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In some ways, precariousness is a virus of our social system and we let it inoculate itself in our bloodstream of the social model, because it, in fact, has a devastating effect in all areas: it delays the young emancipation, because, obviously, it makes it difficult to establish a family; it prevents access to the first home; it delays the possibility of each one to emancipate and actually become a contributor to the social protection system; it defeats any effort, even if propagandised, to try to increase birth. And the government has had the opportunity to bring this House, with the support of the majority, measures for birth, when the most obvious is in front of our eyes, which is not to pre-empt labour relations, to leave this spiral of precariousness that destroys the quality of life of families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, moreover, it aggravates the very sustainability of social security, as it is evident, because it also makes it difficult to strengthen the funding it needs. So if we look at this as a factor of valorization and we want to make it more flexible, we will certainly be constantly repeating the worst mistakes of the past, which will then have devastating effects on poverty. And today we not only face the risks of poverty, for example, in a frightening way, among the younger ones, where we have an unthinkable percentage of children at risk of poverty, as we have, in particular, the risk of poverty among those who work. And this cannot be acceptable in a democratic society in the 21st century! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, whether by term contracts, in an abusive way, by temporary work, by green receipts, by the misuse of part-time work, by underemployment, by the misuse of employment-insertion contracts, all this, are parts of a day-to-day machine that is feeding and maintaining this same problem, because it is cultivated by the government, which aggravates it. And it also worsens it because it aggressively uses employment-inclusion contracts for, with some dimension of social dumping, to solve and amend problems in public services, degrading public services, and degrading public services that should be robust to respond to precariousness, in particular the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), which is a key part for the operation of supervision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, as I said, it is a political problem and a political problem is solved by political proposals. Thus, the Socialist Party is very clear in what it will present to the Portuguese now, in the times that are approaching, because what we want, in the first line, is to dignify the work, reducing the poverty of those who work. And this is achieved by two ways: by the increase of the minimum wage and by the annual wage supplement, which aims to remove those who work from poverty, bringing justice where it has been lacking. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This implies continuing to value vocational education and the formation of those who are in a precarious situation; it implies looking at the protection of parenthood, within the framework of working relationships, creating more defenses for who is father and mother, and not leaving these same defenses; it means valuing collective bargaining; it means continuing to combat precariousness, for example, in scientific research, which is also a penalized area, but strategic for the country, where we continue to depend on scholarships and systems that are not valued by scientific work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, above all, we have to look at the bulk of the problem, and this is where I stop for a few seconds. Combating precariousness is to combat false green receipts, and it is neither a mistification nor wrong to bring this issue here, to the debate, as it was recently implied by Mrs Joana Barata Lopes. It's a problem of legality—it's true! — but it is a problem of legality that fights with the supervision that you have prevented, not by robusting the Working Conditions Authority when necessary and not looking at labour legislation, where it must be changed. And it's possible! It is possible to favour and speed up the consideration of the existence of a contract of employment, when using the record of false work, with green receipts, by exempting the worker from the appeal to the court to prove the facts. It is a measure to which the Socialist Party will bet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is possible to strengthen the inspection capacity of the ACT, it is possible until it separates and treats entrepreneurs differently on an individual basis and independent workers who issue green receipts to ascertain, effectively, where supervision is necessary. It is also possible to look at entities which, repeatedly and in an excessive proportion, make use of green receipts to thus also revise and, clearly, ensure justice in the distribution of the contribution effort. It is also possible to revise the rules for determining the amounts of contributions to be paid by the workers themselves, so that they affect the actual income actually taken. It is possible to improve the social protection of workers in these situations both in unemployment and in other cases. Therefore, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite different to lower labour costs at the expense of workers, their purchasing power and their dignity — which is the policy of the government — than to want, for example, to pay the costs of precarious work and to disburse the costs of work when it appears stable. This is the path of the Socialist Party and the difference will be clear, and the Portuguese will know that they recognize it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u78	The Bureau recorded the inclusion of Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP, and Mr Cecilia Honorio of the Left Block for questions. I ask the honourable Member how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u79	I shall answer together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u80	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u81	Madam President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I have two very specific questions to ask you. The first relates to the national minimum wage. The rejection with which the Socialist Party conveniently forgets...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u82	Conveniently, it's not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u83	... what you entered into in the Memorandum and the fact that the increase in the national minimum wage, purely and simply, was not possible during the years of the Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme. The Socialist Party has always quite rightly forgotten this because it obviously wants to disguise the fact that it is the current government that has managed that ban to cease to exist and that it has, indeed, managed to increase the national minimum wage. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] But now, he also agreed that they should explain why, in your fantastic and magnificent macroeconomic scenario, the increase in the minimum wage also fell. Because if it is so important, as Mr President says, it remains to be known why the Socialist Party has dropped it. I will do the charity not to mention, even, the views that the coordinator of this macroeconomic scenario has on national minimum wage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u84	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u85	... although it is also an interesting discussion. But it remains to be known, if it's so important, why don't you put it there...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u86	Clearly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u87	... and conveniently forget it and, as far as employment is concerned, present other solutions. [[PS protests.]] The second question concerns employment issues. The PS had a proposal related to TSU (unique social rate) and then had another proposal. The first proposal had one version and now there is another one.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u88	And he'll have another one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u89	As I'm guessing that in a few weeks, you'll have another one and, in a month, another one...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u90	Tell me what's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u91	I repeat, in a month, you'll have another...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u92	Tell me what the CDS proposal is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u93	I will repeat as many times as necessary, Mrs. You may not like to hear, but that's the way it is. We all have to listen to each other. I believe that sometimes it is not a pleasant exercise, but it is, in any case, a democratic exercise. But, as I was saying, a proposal has been in the way and, finally, when there is a final version, we can discuss it within two or three months. With regard to the cutting off of the TSU on the worker's side, I would say that it is not a employment policy, that is what is called "income policy", I would say that it is an euphemism to say the PS's old maxim : "Let's spend now and then see who will come to pay the account and solve the problem! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is a 'film' which, unfortunately, we have seen many times.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u94	The sentences made are always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u95	But because the questions cannot be answered and because this matter is serious, it is important to explain that we are talking about a loss of revenue in social security already in 2015 of EUR 330 million and up to EUR 2026, which is the time to apply the measure of EUR 5000 million. The question is very simple, Mr President: how do you plan to pay pensions there and how do you plan to pay pensions during this period? To say that economic growth solves the problem, I am very sorry, but unfortunately, it does not serve until we have seen many times when the PS has done many measures and said that economic growth solves and the only thing your economic growth has unfortunately brought about was a recession and the troika. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u96	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u97	Mr President, Mr Delgado Alves, has put his finger on the wound in his speech, particularly on the deficit in public policies, on deferred life projects... Finally, he is still young, he has no children, but perhaps he has cousins, friends, fellows of his party and knows well, of course, what is this lost generation, forced to emigration, the "neither work nor study", or those who, in despair, hope for an internship, however badly remunerated he is. He told us about the difference and it is about the difference I want to question him. All parties go to elections here sometime. Let's put the PS hypothesis to become a government — it's a hypothesis, the people will know! I want to ask you, what's the difference? And I even start from the recent observations of Pedro Passos Coelho, when he said that in the PS proposals, and I quote, « there are measures that are in the party programme presented by the PS economists, who are perfectly liberal. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, sir, what's the difference? What is the PS proposal to effectively solve the problems of this lost generation? What is the PS response if it's government? More: Is this single contract not a form of normalization of precariousness? The single contract that the PS proposes, ending permanent contracts, is not a way of normalizing precariousness? Is it not when, with this conciliatory, voluntary regime, it gives the bosses a blank letter to do the same thing today as collective redundancies? Isn't it, when he gives the entrepreneurs a white letter to say goodbye, to make collective dismissals? In addition to the controversy of the TSU, in this proposal for the decline of the TSU, you remain obsessed with the costs of work and, in addition to the formulation « to the IMF », they say: « The minimum wage is not to increase, but, finally, there may be a subsidization of the wages of misery ». The question is, Mr President, what is the difference? What the PS wants to do to save a lost generation, condemned to precariousness, condemned to the impossibility of a project of liberation, emancipation and dignity. That is the point of discussion, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u98	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u99	Madam President, answering Mrs Cecilia Meireles'questions, two notes on the minimum wage: if there has been a significant and historical increase in the minimum wage in the last decade, it is due to the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, if anything is true, from the moment that it is no longer compulsory to maintain the freezing of the minimum wage, you have refused it, until they are pushed into it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u100	Mrs Cecilia Meireles (CDS-PP): - That's not true! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u101	...when they could not even survive the daily attacks that either union or bosses pointed out as a wrong path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u102	Mr. Artur Rêgo (CDS-PP): - That's a blatant lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u103	It's not a lie, they could have anticipated it and they didn't. As for the PS program, it is clear and there you will find the increase in the minimum wage, because the Socialist Party program is a different thing from the macroeconomic scenario. Indeed, as I said, the Socialist Party's programme is under construction. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] I know it is difficult to deal with the fact that if you want to hear what people say and have the ability to involve civil society in the construction of the programme, but that is what the Socialist Party is doing, and that is what, on 6 June, will conclude, with the approval of its government programme and we can then discuss it here and during the campaign to see clearly the differences, because there is plurality in the Socialist Party, there are different opinions, but there will be a clear programme and a clear message to present to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, regarding TSU, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is an exercise with neutrality. The aim is to ensure that there is indeed an increase in workers' income. And this is how? Allowing, by means of a measure which has no effect, that has the neutral effect on social security accounts, to achieve, with immediate effect, this same advantage, because in fact, it is effectively an anticipation, a loan that makes it itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I thank you for your questions, but I also leave a note: in the Socialist Party, we will not be misled by our opponent. And to quote that person who proposed to eliminate dismissal from the Constitution with just cause, the current Prime Minister, and to think that he has moral or authority to question who is more or less neoliberal is wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Socialist Party does not receive lessons about neoliberalism by Mr. Prime Minister, who intended to eliminate, redeem from the Constitution, the guarantee of dismissal without cause. Therefore, these measures which I have just announced, the measures that we are building on the Socialist Party programme and even the reference that has made to the amendment of the model contracts, let us be clear, are not in any way a matter of precaution; on the contrary, it is a question of creating incentives for the quality of the contract to be strengthened. That is precisely what will be the objective of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u104	There's got to be a can! That's a lot of cans!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u105	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u106	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today, in the Assembly of the Republic, calls on the Government on job insecurity. Regardless of the substantive reasons that lead, legitimately, this party to choose the precariousness of work, obviously, the theme and timing of the choice cannot cease to be the subject of a political analysis. The first look is a little bit of a start. Apparently, the Block does not want to give communists the top priority on this issue. [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u107	It is still curious that the CFP presented, two days ago, the essential objectives and axes of its electoral programme, where labour and precariousness play a prominent role. It is that there is a common electorate to dispute between these two political forces in a quartile-free struggle, although publicly untrustworthy. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The second aspect is more comprehensive. There is no doubt that a party such as the Left Block brings this issue here, knowing that there is a very close relationship between the political, financial, economic credibility of countries and the attraction of investment, the creation of jobs, in quantity and quality. This curiosity lies in the fact that the Block belongs to the same political family of Syriza, a party that governs Greece. We all miss the colorful flags of the « our Bloc » - - and allow me - this familiarity -, agitated on the victorious night of 25 January at Syntagma Square in Athens, no longer to speak of the enthusiastic rhetoric of the high leaders of the Socialist Party before the «morrows singing» on the Hellenic Peninsula. What some and others certainly did not expect is that a social hecatombe was prefigured on the horizon. The news that comes to us from Greece on a daily basis is nothing consistent with job creation and much less stable employment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u108	The Left Block, in its Hellenic version and in front of the governance of that country, has not only complicated an already difficult situation, not taking the step with all the countries of the euro area, as it is responsible for a painful social backwardness. According to a study by the Greek Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, known a few days ago, in that country, on average, for every day that spends 59 companies close and 613 jobs are eliminated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u109	A disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u110	In the face of a comparison between the present Portuguese situation and the Hellenics, we are now talking about the morality of the Block in bringing us this issue here today. Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: However, the PSD recognises that Portugal has problems with job insecurity. Simply, in a realistic approach, the Government and the majority work daily to mitigate and change this situation. And that represents all the difference in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u112	Portugal is neither geographically nor economically and socially. The problem of working precariousness is, unfortunately, worldwide, as the last report of the International Labour Organization shows very well, on the employment situation and entitled, very appropriately, The Changing Nature of Jobs, that is, the Change in the Nature of Employment, and in which it demonstrates the trend in 180 countries, with all types of development, to transform patterns of employment in the last decade. This study notes that only one in four jobs created worldwide is stable and full-time. In the face of this international scenario, however, the Portuguese situation, despite the very high unemployment resulting from the crisis, and the implementation of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, is comparablely more favourable. In fact, the government has already pointed to these facts. In the last eight quarters, according to INE data, there has been a fall in the unemployment rate of 3, 8 percentage points — from 17, 5 % to 13, 7 % — which corresponds to a decrease of about 214 000 unemployed persons. At the same time, the employed population had a net increase of more than 122,000.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u114	But we don't just stay for the amount. The debate on working precariousness is essentially qualitative and we will not steal from this confrontation, as it shows that the path is the right one. Thus, in this reference period, for each job created with a term contract, 8 jobs have been created in Portugal with no term.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u115	They're internships!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u116	I repeat: for each job created with a term contract, 8 jobs have been created in Portugal. This is the reduction of the traditional segmentation that the contract in Portugal knew. However, the situation is far from perfect, but it is clear enough and objective to bring the opposition down to the ground that in Portugal there is a machiavellian strategy to maintain precarious working relations for the perpetuation of exploitation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By definition it is the young people most affected by the problem of precariousness. Moreover, in all European countries, regardless of unemployment rates being high or low, the youth unemployment rate is about twice as large as the population in general. Consequently, the Youth Guarantee was set up in Europe, which allows young people up to 25 years of age to be able to work, vocational training or further study, i.e. no young person is left without answers and continues in the NEET situation. Well, in our country and through government action, this guarantee extends to 30 years of age and the European Commission recognizes that Portugal has made significant efforts to implement this Youth Guarantee. On the other hand, it is important to give a battle without quartel to false green receipts. in this sense it is important to say that this majority has enabled a legislative initiative of citizens, through Law No. 63 / 2013, which facilitates the recognition of the existence of a work relationship in situations of use of green receipt, seeking to ensure the conclusion of the due contract of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u117	It was us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u118	And the people! If the people didn't push...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u119	Moreover, following the publication of this law, the number of situations determined by the Act (Working Conditions Authority) increased exponentially and thus many unfair, immoral but above all illegal situations could be resolved or denounced by the Public Prosecutor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Regardless of all these considerations and the measures taken specifically to improve employability in quantity and quality, what is important is that the economy can grow healthy and thus attract the investment needed for its growth. It is common to say that the economy is instrumental, that is, its importance is that it is at the service of people. We could not agree more and we would add that it is precisely the question of employment and its promotion that it acquires its full instrumentality. And how this legislation approaching its end was paradigmatic in this regard! It was paradigmatic, before its beginning, for the economic upheavals of those who, in front of the government, exhausted the public accounts and led Portugal, sovereign country with almost nine centuries of history, to the humiliating need for recourse to another emergency financial rescue to avoid failure and bankruptcy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This was the case in April 2011 when a Minister of Finance left nothing left but to disobey, on behalf of the national interest, a socialist Prime Minister in a state of absolute denial. It was paradigmatic because of the way Portuguese knew how to react to the hardships and the political leadership of the country knew to be firm, determined, resilient and also how the social partners knew how to overcome their natural differences, in the name of the highest common interest — Portugal. It was also paradigmatic because of how Portugal knew, unlike other countries in the same situation, to trace the difficult path of credibility, compliance, rigour and thus to complete the Assistance Programme without again needing rescue, or cautious programme, returning to international funding at historically low interest rates and thus enabling economic growth, reducing unemployment and increasing employment. It is therefore important at this stage to consolidate everything that has already been achieved. The PSD and the majority are proud of the work done on employment as well, aware that it was at work that the difficulties were most felt, but that it was possible in consultation to recover. When the Portuguese are about to be called upon to exercise their sovereignty in legislative elections, it is necessary to repeatedly recall the urgency of electing those who can carry out the real pursuit of the public interest, enabling the continuation and consolidation of economic growth. It is essential that the errors do not repeat themselves so that the Portuguese in general and the workers in particular do not have to be further penalized, but, on the contrary, may be proud of their efforts and of the country they help to build on a daily basis. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u120	We don't have any more entries on the table. I don't know if anyone wants to intervene before the closing phase... [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u121	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: There has been a lot of talk here about job insecurity, but no one has said what job insecurity was, as defined and what it means. In the field of work — which is what we are talking about — precariousness is linked to the lack of security and guarantees. Safety and guarantees linked to labour law protecting workers' rights; safety and guarantees linked to the prospect of some stability in the workplace; security and guarantees linked to a minimum pay and prospect of improvement. By analysing these three concepts in which job insecurity unfolds, we would say the following: whether or not Portugal has labour legislation, which protects workers' rights, safety and health conditions at work, in line with those of the most advanced countries, European legislation and the generality of ILO recommendations (International Labour Organisation)? Do you have or do you not have Portugal, mechanisms and bodies that monitor compliance with labour laws by employers? Here. And he's got the act. And the figures on its intervention on the ground are clear: at the level of staff, there are a total of 362 inspectors on the ground, generally fulfilling the ratios recommended by the ILO of one inspector per 10 000 workers. It is said that more inspectors are or will soon be needed, because as the statistics prove, the government has said, since the second quarter of 2013 it is significantly reducing unemployment and consequently increasing the number of workers employed, and there is therefore a need for adjustment of the number of inspectors for the sake and for the best reasons. That's good news. As for the second concept, security and guarantees linked to the prospect of some work-place stability, the news here too is positive. In fact, official numbers and statistics point to a continuous and sustained decrease in the practice of term contracts, of green receipt practice. And, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, you are very kind, but you do not basically say what you should say: it is because the champion of green receipts and precariousness was the Socialist Government, it was the Socialist Party. It was with him that this form of precarious contract has grown, it has not been with this government! What the numbers now show is that this type of practice has decreased, that of term contracts, and has increased and sustained the number of contracts without term. They also set the numbers for the increase of full-time contracts and for the reduction of the number of part-time contracts. In other words, the work of the Government and of this parliamentary majority, particularly in terms of changes to labour legislation and job creation incentives, has contributed and has been decisive in reducing work insecurity. Not only is it creating more jobs, but it is creating better jobs. Finally, let's talk about the last concept, about the security linked to remuneration and the prospect of improving it. Here it is worth remembering that this government has always been in coordination and in harmony with the social partners and with the parliamentary groups of the CDS-PP and the PSD, which has frozen the minimum wage, frozen by the socialist governments in violation of what the PS has promised in the agreements concluded with the social partners. It was this government that, contrary to the opposition to public opinion, created and relaunched active employment measures, relaunched, modernized and adapted to market needs the programme of professional internships, resulting in subsequent employability for around 70 % of these trainees and with an average remuneration of about €620, 20 % above the national minimum wage, raising, above and upward the remuneration values of those who first enter the labour market, while at the time of the Socialist Party — and any person who had good faith or who had passed over time could confirm — were ranked as a basis for the national minimum wage. In conclusion, assuming, as we have assumed, that the Left Block has marked this debate to seriously discuss the issue of working precariousness in Portugal today, in view of what was before this government taking possession, we can only thank you for giving you the opportunity to clarify here what is meant by working precariousness, as is that it must be analysed, in which it is translated, and to explain seriously what evolution has been with this government in the various aspects which it reflects. And the evolution has been positive, if we take into account that in 2011 we caught in a failed country, with accelerated growth of unemployment, with failures of thousands of companies. Today, it is clear and well known that this cycle has been reversed, as a result of the work of this Government and, in the labour and social sphere, of the efforts and dedication of this Minister and his team, with unemployment falling, employment to be increased, contractual and labour security gradually replacing the insecurity and the average value of the lowest wages to be raised. It has been a hard and arduous way, with sacrifices for many Portuguese, yet there is much to do in this area of work precariousness, but it is in sight and clear the cycle reversal since mid-2013. Of course, it is now up to the Portuguese to choose whether they will, strictly and firmly, continue this path of recovery and stability of the country and its lives, or rather give in to the corners of silk and cigarette, which will inevitably bring us back to this place to discuss precariousness, unemployment and misery. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u122	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, in the Alentejo there is a popular expression that applies very much to this debate — the Minister « came to wool and ended up coughing». The Minister has tried to convince us that the Government is doing everything in its power to combat precariousness, but when confronted by the CFP with the concrete cases of the precariousness existing in the groups of schools in Maia and Santo Tirso, in the health services in the National Pension Centre itself, that the Minister for Protection is obliged to recognise that it is the government itself that promotes precariousness. And it is also obliged to recognize that precariousness is a fundamental part of the whole government strategy. With the precariousness that you promote, they aim to achieve the economy of low wages, which they so desire. You promote precariousness in order to make the wealth created become less and less in the wages and pockets of workers and more and more in the profits of the large economic and financial groups. You promote precariousness in creating instability in the lives of workers, in order to force them to accept worse working conditions, worse wages and more exploitation. You promote the precariousness of creating instability in the lives of workers, but also instability in public services, degrading their functioning and thus creating the conditions for their dismantling and privatization. Precautionaryness is indeed a strategic option of right-wing policy and serves those who accumulate profits at the expense of duty-free work. But precariousness does not serve the workers, does not serve the development of the country and will therefore continue to be a central element in the fight against right-wing politics. And in this respect, the parties of right-wing politics and troika have nothing new to present to workers and young people. Moreover, this debate confirms that with the parties that have alternated in the government, both those of the current PSD/CDS coalition, as well as that of the PS, young people and workers in this country can only expect more precariousness, more impoverishment, more attack on their rights. The perspective that the PCP here wants to leave is the opposite, that there is an alternative and that it is worth fighting for. It is worth fighting against the precariousness and the future that you want to give to young people in this country, with the perpetuation of the stages, of employment-inclusion contracts, of work without rights, with the prospect of a life that can never be organised because that is the price that you want young people to pay with their lives, to ensure the accumulation of profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u125	It is worth fighting for the right to work and for the rights at work. It is worth fighting for stability in working relationships, working hours compatible with personal and family life, for fairer and more dignified wages, because that is the future of the country and not the future of right-wing politics. So, Minister, we want to leave this answer to you: we will continue to insist on the proposals for an alternative policy, which, moreover, does not even Mr Pedro Roque become immune. Mr Pedro Roque was obliged to acknowledge, in his speech in this debate, that the CFP places precariousness as one of its main priorities and as a test of its political proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u127	Perhaps Mr Pedro Roque will recognize more than that and will also follow the proposals that the CFP will bring here! Is that what you're talking about? But we are not going to stand by waiting for that, we will continue to fight and give this prospect of hope that young people and workers in this country have a future of a dignified life, with living conditions and rights that must be respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're now moving to the closing phase... [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares and Mr Pedro Filipe Soares were registered for an intervention and for an appeal to the Bureau. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u129	Madam President, I have requested the floor for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u130	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u131	Mr President, recently in the last speech, the Minister said that he would shorten the answers because he wanted to leave time for the Secretary of State of the Public Administration to intervene. As we took the Government's word in the debates, we were waiting for the Secretary of State to intervene to ask him questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u132	So what? The debate is not over yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u133	If the intervention of the Secretary of State is to be made at the closing stage of the debate, it did not make sense to the Minister's intervention because time is not the same, and that is why we understand that the Secretary of State was still going to intervene during this stage of the debate. from there this question of whether there will be an intervention from the Government of the State Secretary of the Public Administration or whether the Secretary of State will close a debate in which he has not been involved, and his matters have not even been called to the colloquium.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u134	Mr President, I would like to make a statement to the Government, which I believe will give, on whether the Secretary of State or the Minister will intervene, and the Government may, of course, also decide. Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares is registered for one speech, but I ask the Government whether or not it can give such clarification. I ask the question on a point of order and I will not interfere with it by giving the floor to Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u135	Mr President, if you will excuse me, I have already informed the Bureau that the government wants to sign up, but it has, like all parliamentary groups, the right to manage the time it understands best. So the government will sign up. It has not yet been registered and, as time allows, it can do so when it understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u136	Mr. Secretary of State, it's nothing I haven't said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u138	...but it's better that way. Of course, the government will decide how best to understand your interventions. For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u139	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, during this afternoon we have been dealing with an extremely important debate which has to do with precarious work. I would like to point out that this is not a national issue, it has to do with globalization and, as such, it is important to look at it under various planes and without that vision of the good and the bad, without that vision that everything is bad and nothing is good. It is that precariousness, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u140	Is that a good thing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u141	... existed and exists when there is no growth, when there is a great economic crisis, when there are legal failures, when economies do not generate jobs. Indeed, the greatest precaution of all is unemployment, there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! And this is to fight. It is to combat this scourge that this government and this majority, PSD and CDS, have worked and who, in support of this government, have helped and worked hard to find the best solutions. And the government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you found the country in a very critical situation, in a pre-bank situation, in a situation in which you promised the Portuguese this world and the other and gave them a hand full of nothing and a lot of debts to pay. What happened? The government, with courage, with determination, fought and regained the dignity of the country, recovered dignity from our creditors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u143	Do you believe that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u144	... adopting difficult measures, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat by adopting difficult measures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u145	For whom? For the banks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u146	The government stimulated growth, promoted the economy, generated jobs and generated more and better jobs. We are not just putting a poster on the wall, we are not just accepting unemployment as mere unemployment and fatalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u147	It's 445 million to put in the New Bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u148	Don't! Measures were adopted to combat precariousness, mechanisms were set up in labour law to strengthen the fight against green receipts, people who were unemployed, independent workers who had nothing before and who had access to unemployment benefit were supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u149	Precarious workers live an illusion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u150	We have significantly reduced unemployment and I do not see, in this House, any or any member of the opposition say: "Well, you have managed to generate jobs! You have been able to turn around, create jobs and solve the situation in many Portuguese and Portuguese! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Not a word!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u152	They are 160 000 unemployed in training!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u153	Is that true? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! And I am talking about jobs with effective contracts, real jobs and, more importantly, important active employment measures that allow, on the one hand, to stimulate companies that stay with these workers and, on the other hand, that these young and young workers who have lost the opportunity to enter the labour market do so, acquiring new skills, valuing themselves and, after all, demonstrating, before the market and businesses, that they have competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u155	No one believes that because you are not trustworthy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u156	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese believe that the work of this government is on the right track, it is on the path of credibility, it is on the path of job creation, it is on the path of economic growth, it is on the way to honor our humanist values and principles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u157	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u158	This is what you do not want to believe and deny your existence, but the Portuguese will know how to value at the right time. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u159	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to make a few notes here on this problem of precariousness in the field of public administration. This debate which we are having here today repeats a debate which took place in this House about a year ago on the same subject. I would like my intervention, focused on the dimension of Public Administration, to be in some way wider and not sickened by an excessively restrictive or afunished view of this problem. Of course this is a real problem, but it must be counterbalanced with other considerations, it cannot be seen isolated from the reality of our society and our economy. Some syncretic vision that mixes a set of figures, a set of situations, a set of instruments as varied as those referred to by some Mr. Members, especially in the field of public administration, are not particularly rigorous. In the field of Public Administration, this problem has two fundamental poles: one, it has to do with term contracts. What we can see—because, as a result of this government's action today, we have some statistical information instruments on human resources in the Public Administration which, in the past, we do not have at our disposal—is that today it is possible to perceive, in this area of contracts to end in the central administration, a tendency for a slight reduction. There is indeed a tendency to reduce, which is very sensitive in the area of central administration, in the area of local administration and also in the area of regional administrations within the Autonomous Region of Madeira. This figure is used within the central administration, mainly within the armed forces and also in education and health, as a result of the specificities of certain contracting mechanisms in these sectors. It is not an option for term contracts, it is the objective reality of these contractual mechanisms that requires it. Therefore, in this dimension, in the size of the term contract, the trend is to reduce this figure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u161	That's very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u162	Within the framework of the CIS talks, of employment-inclusion contracts, it must be understood that this reality is not at present, it is a reality that has a period of service that is already relatively long and has been maintained, regardless of the political orientation of the governments that are going to happen. The logic and rationality of this measure are known, I will not elaborate on it, but I would like to stress a very important point, which has to do with the circumstances of, curiously, some considerations and some examples given by some of the Members. Members with regard to the specific situations that pointed out to us in this area, if they have focused on the central administration. And it is very curious, because this phenomenon has, on the contrary, a much more significant expression within the local administration and also strictly covers municipalities whose electors correspond to a wide variety of political guidelines represented in this House of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u163	In Évora, in Alandroal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u164	Some of the gentlemen. Members who have mentioned this problem here, in the municipalities that are headed by local voters elected on their lists, also have significant numbers of people hired under these contracts. I did not want to be exhaustive, but I would tell the honourable Member that, for example, in the municipality of Loures there is this situation,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u165	In the local administration of the South bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u166	... and in other municipalities, finally, we verified this use. Therefore, it is not only in the central administration that this figure occurs. Of course, this also occurs in the municipality of Évora, and in other municipalities. There is a very significant group of municipalities that we can find the use of this figure and the area of local administration is where this use has greater dimensions and has true expression. Central administration is not comparable to local administration, it is something I would like to stress. As regards central administration, on the contrary, the trend has been to contain or even reduce it. So when we are analyzing this phenomenon we have to look at the numbers that are presented and the real reality, not rhetorical reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u167	The real reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u168	I would like to highlight some points that I think are important because we cannot look at this isolated dimension of the effort that has been made within the framework of the Public Administration. I will not, of course, make a balance sheet of what has been done, but I would like to draw attention to two or three points which seem very relevant to me. One of them is the so-called Professional Internship Program, which has a very significant dimension in Public Administration. I can assure you that the echo that I have had — and I admit that you are a Member of the European Parliament. Members may have similar echoes, because the echo I have received is a relatively unanimous echo—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u169	The real reality is to know, they are not echoes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u170	... is that these programs have been developed very usefully, either for the services that benefit from the contribution of these young graduates, either, and has been said by some of them, because it is an opportunity that has been recognized to enter into the labour market, to have a first professional experience and find ways to value their curriculum with the acquisition of skills that they have surely been able to obtain in contact with the Public Administration. Another very important aspect is the fact that the Public Administration has been making major developments in the sense of a strong commitment to innovation and modernisation and attention given also to the training and training of its frameworks. Protocols have been made with universities, the normal training program of the Public Administration has been done, but there have been some initiatives, particularly important in this field,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u171	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u172	... and, therefore, I think that when we look at the extent of the precariousness of the Public Administration and draw a picture based on some disqualification, this analysis and this drawing are not fair, they are not correct and it seems to me that we should put things in perspective and also find an opportunity to escape from what is the usual discourse and find space for the recognition of the improvements that have been developed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u173	There is a record in the Bureau for an appeal by Mr João Oliveira. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u174	Mr President, it is an appeal to request the distribution of a document, because Mr. Secretary of State referred to the CDU authorities and the existence of employment-inclusion contracts. Mr. Secretary of State referred to Loures, but he could have talked about Évora or Alandroal, which are two more authorities that the CDU recovered from the Socialist Party in the last elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u175	I would like to identify the document, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u176	Madam President, the distribution I wanted to ask for is a document I don't have here, but I'm going to ask you to distribute it. This is a document of the Municipal House of Setúbal, which had four trainees who completed the internships at the end of November. The House asked the Government to be able to hire them, but however, it did not get a response from the Government, that is, the House wanted to hire people with ties and cannot, because the Government does not respond. I will ask that this document be distributed to explain that the CDU seeks to do what it can to combat precariousness, but the government does not leave. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u177	We have also registered Mr Pedro Delgado Alves for an intervention, despite having little time, by the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the intervention of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges recently, I do not resist repeating a point which is fundamental to this debate, which is that of reality. Reiterating INE data : 90 % of the contract is overdue. of these 90 %, only 15 % are converted into permanent contracts —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u179	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u180	... — are current data, fresh! — and the weight of the non-permanent contract has increased in all quarters since 2012. So if we want to make a demonstration of improvement, it does not exist! And if we have a tendency, it is clear: there has been an increase in the reduction of permanent recruitment and an increase in non-permanent recruitment. But the honourable Member also said that the greatest precariousness of all is unemployment. I have already mentioned that they are two different problems, both lacking answers, because we are not going to solve the problem of unemployment by creating precariousness, but we can, for example, solve the problem of precariousness by ensuring proper supervision. And how was it recently emphasized, how is it thought possible to make adequate supervision when it is reduced, in the period from 2011 to 2014, by 20 % the inspectors available in the ACT? Oh, my God! How is it possible to ensure this supervision, which is the privileged instrument that the Government has to prevent precariousness, if the inspection actions fall to almost half, as has already been mentioned in this same debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u181	You forgot the Memorandum of Understanding!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u182	The government has been in office since 2011, failed to increase the number of inspectors, in a fact that was already dramatic, and lowered it by 20 %. So they come to say to us "what we have done"... they did nothing effectively and we retreated. Finally, with regard to the intervention of Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration a short time ago, I do not resist to mention and recall two things. On the one hand, it is the Ombudsman himself who, having received a number of complaints on this matter, is making a survey on the misuse of employment-inclusion contracts within the framework of the Public Administration. We have had examples recently pointed out by the Communist Party in several areas, particularly in the education sector, in which the use of these mechanisms for permanent needs is abusive. I also know, because I know the authentic reality that the authorities often want, they have financial availability, they are not in imbalance, they want to create stable links and they cannot, because they are not authorised and because even there is a possibility of job creation, a real creation of jobs necessary for the provision of services to the population, is not authorised. Finally, we also know that, as part of the delegation of many tasks by the Government in IPSS, in health and education areas, rather than the proper transfer of resources and human resources, what is done is the incentive for employment-inclusion contracts and we have increasingly, in the framework of protocols concluded with IPSS, to push these institutions into employment-inclusion contracts, by distorting the logic of this instrument which neither currently creates employment nor puts anyone on the labour market strictly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u183	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u184	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we have saved ourselves to hear your speech so that we will then ask you a few questions. Interestingly, there was no time for reply, so here is the intervention. You have come to tell us of a real reality in the Public Administration and you have told us that this problem of precariousness would have to have a syncretic view. And then, with this introduction, we thought that we would certainly present a series of data, especially from the last year, until we referred to last year's debate, data from reality. But during all your intervention, we must have escaped something, because the fact is that we cannot catch anything at all. You told us: « The term contract has a slight reduction ». He reported a slight reduction but did not tell us what the real reality of the term contract in the Public Administration is. With regard to employment-inclusion contracts, he said that the reality is that « there is a relatively long period of time » and « I will not elaborate on it ». Real Reality? We didn't understand anything I wanted to say. He said that employment-inclusion contracts have a greater expression in local administration, but he did not tell us either what the real reality of the Public Administration is. Mr. Secretary of State, don't you know? Oh, my God! Then he told us about the internships. Mr Secretary of State, there is an enormous perversion concerning the stages, in fact, already denounced in the interventions of this question. It is that the figure of the internship had much to do with the first connection, the entry door to the labour market, but if you want to go to the real reality, you will see that there are indeed many stages of people who already had jobs, who already had contracts. Therefore, the internship is not fulfilling its mission. More: Mr. Minister told us here something that is not true, that one in each stage has a contract without end. It's fake. What happens is that companies have to fill out a statement that every three trainees will have one. That's what the law says. And what I'm wondering is that you have data from the implementation of this legal precept. None! Real reality didn't bring us. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, your intervention is indeed shocking. It's about precariousness in the Public Administration that doesn't mean anything to us. Employment-inclusion contracts, which tell us that they have a greater expression in local administration, have an expression everywhere. If you are to the real reality of public services, you can see that many workers who are in service at shops, who are the first face of any public service, are in employment-inclusion contracts. If you are to many of the IPSS, in the health, education and in all sectors, there are workers with employment-inclusion contracts. Doing what? I work in shifts. It's not possible! The philosophy of these contracts is in the sense of employment-insertion, it is not to occupy permanent jobs and you are using this exploitation and to degrade, in the Public Administration, the quality of the public service, because no employment-insertion contract, which is given no prospect of the future, who knows that it is only there 12 months, remains with any connection to the service to provide a quality public service. You are destroying public services in two aspects: quality of services and quality of employment. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State for Public Administration, if you say that this problem of precariousness must have a syncretic view, I mean that your speech was a speech that did not speak about the real reality, you did not give us any data, because you do not want or do not know, and in fact you have a destructive view of what the labour market should be and what work should be with rights, you have a destructive view of the future of the country and a work that should have dignity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u185	Mrs. Members, registrations are exhausted at the stage of the debate. We will move on to the closure, which consists of two interventions, one from the Left Block and one from the Government. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u186	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Minister Pedro Mota Soares, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, spoke to us about the precariousness and how he said this government can combat the precariousness. The Ziguezague Minister is the wolf with lamb's skin in this debate. Here, you are concerned about the quality of employment and the need to say that employment is with rights and that people should have jobs that meet their needs. But then it is the member of the government who promotes precariousness, it is the government member who goes out there to say « see how we do well for the country, who, despite being politically angry... », as Pires de Lima said, «...is a country whose collective recruitment has been dismantled during the mandate of this government ». It is the member of the government who says that he has protected the workers individually because he has reduced the compensation for any worker — less than one third of them at the beginning of the term of office of this government. But it is also the government that, using unemployment to withdraw workers'rights, guarantees in its Stability Programme that, in 2019, if everything goes well, the unemployment rate will be higher than that existing in 2010. Listen carefully, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in 2019, if this government continued to hold power, the unemployment rate would be 11, 1 % higher than that in 2010. And that is the guarantee, the ideological guarantee, that this government has to reduce workers' rights. I said the PSD, which has been quite "Greek" in this debate, which is worth more precarious than unemployment, is worth the stage than having nothing, it is worth little less than nothing. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u187	"Greece" are the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u188	But the reality is that this is the blackmail of those who know that, who are unemployed, is in a difficult situation, they know that, who is unemployed and needs to pay their bills, they need something, and this government takes advantage of this fragility to withdraw their rights. This is the ideological plough of those who see in any right a blessing of a worker who lives above their possibilities. Therefore, with this government, the path is always to the bottom, as far as rights are concerned. No right is valid until there is no right for workers. And this is an ideological vision that the government has taken forward in destroying collective bargaining, destroying the strength of workers to organize themselves to defend themselves in a labor relationship in which they are the most fragile link, and in order to ensure that unemployment is even that sword of Damocles that weighs on the head of each and every one of the unemployed. But we understand that today's proposal brought to us by the Socialist Party is only the other side of the same coin. It is the other ideological view that the problem is always the right of workers, and therefore they join in the same logic as the problem of the economy goes through the costs of work. Obviously, who thinks that it is the cost of working that restricts the economy, it is in the attack on the rights of work that always starts their choices. So it is when, with a single contract, if it destroys any idea that there can be a dismissal without just cause, and that, yes, is a constitutional aspect that is at risk with the choice of the Socialist Party, but it is even more when it is placed as necessary to respond to the low wages, not a criticism to the bosses, who should pay more, not a requirement for better wages for the workers and the workers, but, yes, the subsidization of low wages to withdraw to the workers the will to fight and to assure the employers that they are not guilty of anything, because, if they pay badly, it is the government that will pay next. The two sides of the same currency of precariousness are those who see the problems of the economy in the workers and their rights, and not those who think that an economy can only have a future if it pays decent wages, if it gives employment and creates rights for that job, ensuring that everyone is able to stay in our country. Otherwise, it is the destruction of employment, it is the destruction of competences, it is the destruction of the future in our country. There's a rapper named Capicua who has a song called The Heroes. And, for her, heroes are the precarious ones, those and those who know who deny their rights. But they also know how bad these policies do to the country. It is because she says: "And at some point, you forget the degree/Forget that you have studied hard to think about your future/ And you swear that you will never try again for anything/ and that it is not worth decorating the taboo/We have everything that is study... / Job zero" — and this is really the reality that this government wants to leave as a legacy to the country of the four years of destruction of the economy and rights. But, leaving a challenge to everyone and everyone, she continues: "And it's in Portugal where you want to live/ You don't want to have to emigrate/ You don't want to have to give up/ But it's difficult/ Up level/ When crisis after crisis there's a wall inexhaustible/ It's difficult/ Almost impossible/ And they only offer you stage with invisible salary." And this is exactly the government's offer: an internship with invisible wages, which then follows another stage with invisible wages; some masked and bullied numbers, of whom you know that the internship does not bring jobs in the right term, but it aldraba, saying that 7 in every 10 trainees, then, until they are at their place of work—false! It's a lie, it's a statistical outrage! — but from whom he also knows that he has not created work, he has destroyed it before, and that he will leave the country with a destruction of hundreds of thousands of jobs. This is the legacy of this government. And who also knows, as one PSD Member said: "Well, there are things in this debate that are illegal and, therefore, if they are illegal, will not be a problem of law? » No, Mrs. Member, it is a problem of who wants to enforce the law. And this government does not want to enforce the law and that is why it dismantles any possibility of acting by the Labour Conditions Authority. There are 200 missing — repeat, 200 missing! — ACT inspectors. And what has this government done to remedy this problem? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u189	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u190	It is that «he who consents», who does not want to investigate, in fact does not want the law to be complied with and knows that precariousness is its ideological advantage. The Capicua ends by saying: «We shall be heroes». And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u191	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. The precarious generation knows well who condemns it to precariousness. And we will be the heroes, who will defeat this government and those of its crazed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u193	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to make three comments. The first is to say that there is, in fact, no opposition or dilemma between internships and jobs. The internships are a measure of professional integration, which aims to ensure that those who have not yet performed a professional activity can have first contact with this activity and thus enter into active life. In 2014, about 71,000 young Portuguese had this opportunity. And on this subject there are two indicators of selectivity. Today, one in three proposals for vocational traineeship measures is assessed at this level of employability of 33 %. Just as the evaluation made by the Employment Institute is that 70 % of young people, at the end of six months, after completing their internship, have a discount on social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u195	Show us the company names!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u196	This, of course, means the social usefulness of concrete investment. As for the Working Conditions Authority, I would like to make it very clear that the Government attaches greater importance to the need for inspection and regulation of the labour market. That is exactly why it has recently been authorised and is in competitive procedure the admission of 42 new inspectors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u197	There's 200 missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u198	... to complete 349 of the Staff Board of the Labour Authority. But it is important to have the notion that the Labour Conditions Authority in Portugal only has competence in the private area. It has no competence in the public domain, it has no competence in the area of social security, which is with the General Inspection of the Ministry of Social Security, and has no competence at the level of mediation or conciliation, which is with the DGRT ( Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ). Therefore, the levels we have today in relation to the number of inspectors and the number of workers are perfectly aligned internationally. Finally, with regard to collective bargaining, I should like to point out that it was this government that showed the capacity to enter into a commitment with the social partners, with the employers'confederations and with the UGT to change the criteria for issuing the extension portals and to introduce changes to the deadlines, survival and expiry, assuming that it is very important for working relations, for the labour market that there is indeed a dynamisation of collective bargaining, which will not happen immediately and which will naturally take its course. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not easy, it is even very difficult, and it is not possible in such a short space of time to change life, to leave an economy based on indebtedness of people, families, businesses and the state, to turn the page of an economy in which the engine was the public works, which led us almost to collapse and to the need for external aid, and to move to a competitive economy, generating opportunities, in which the exporting component constitutes the main impulse. The reforms were implemented in order to provide a more flexible labour market, adaptable to economic cycles, prepared to promote economic activity and investment, including foreign investment, and capable of achieving more wealth and new jobs. The confidence of companies and economic agents has been restored. Portugal is today a country admired for the way in which it has made macroeconomic balances, the external balance between exports and imports and competitiveness gains, and for the consensus and commitments it has made between the Government and the social partners. The efforts and quality of Portuguese workers are recognized. And about companies and entrepreneurs, the registration is the same. It is the Portuguese employers, companies and social economy institutions that are creating jobs. And, from the beginning of 2013 until now, in eight quarters, about 123 000 jobs were created, i.e. 123 000 Portuguese jobs became part of the employed population. And be very clear: I'm using data from the National Institute of Statistics ( INE), I'm not talking about internships, nor employment-inclusion contracts, I'm talking about the employed population. in this period, according to the official INE data, there are more than 170 000 Portuguese working full-time and less than 48 000 working part-time - this means more employment. in this same period, in which fewer than 109 000 Portuguese develop an activity on their own, increased the number of Portuguese working on behalf of others by 236 000. And we have seen here that it has also increased, in a proportion of almost one to three, the number of those who develop their work on the basis of stable working relationships, which also means better employment. In addition to data on employability, investment has also been high at the level of vocational training, as well as at the level of active employment policies. The quality of our education and training processes has a strategic dimension in the development of the country. But it's not just a job anymore. Unemployment is still at a high level, which continues to be a high concern and the first priority of public policies in this area. And in this area it is important to have the notion of the path that the country has travelled, particularly since the first quarter of 2013. in these eight quarters, the unemployment rate decreased by 3, 8 % from 17, 5 % to 13, 7 %, a decrease of 214,000 unemployed persons. And if Mrs Mariana Mortágua wants to evaluate another concept, rather than that of the unemployed population, but that of the real unemployed population, where it can include the stages, the IEC(employment-inclusion contracts), the unavailable inactive or the available inactive ones who do not seek employment, yet, Mrs Deputies, this is a decrease of 189 000 Portuguese in unemployment and a decrease of 2, 9 percentage points in these eight quarters. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the problems today, despite the high level of unemployment, fortunately, are starting to be others: companies who want to create jobs have difficulty finding work in the labour market with the requirements they want. The areas of information and communication technologies, metalmechanics, welding, electronics, automation, mechatronics, energy are fortunately presenting employment opportunities for Portuguese and Portuguese and sometimes what happens is that there are no requirements that allow us to take advantage of these job opportunities. The Government will always have as its first priority the fight against unemployment, but also the use of these employment opportunities cannot be wasted on Portuguese society for the benefit of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-28.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the debate on appeal No 22 / XII ( 4 ) is closed. ( a ) — On precarious employment ( BE). The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. The following diplomas will be generally appreciated: Bill No. 841 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the competence of the Banco de Portugal as regards external audit entities ( BE ) ; 842 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the competence of the Banco de Portugal as regards the internal audit and control of credit institutions ( BE); draft law No 843 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits payments to entities based in non-cooperating offshores ( BE); Bill No. 844 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the powers of the Banco de Portugal in weighing the suitability for the performance of functions in credit institutions ( BE); Bill No. 845 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits banks from carrying out transactions on securities issued by themselves or by entities related to them ( BE); Bill No. 846 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the last beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE); Bill No. 847 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits the holding of qualifying holdings by non-financial charities or non-financial conglomerates(BE); Bill No. 960 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Securities Code, ensuring greater protection for small investors ( BEs); Proposal for a Law No 334 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Legal Scheme for Auditing by transposing Directive 2014 / 56 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 amending Directive 2006 / 43 / EC on the legal review of annual and consolidated accounts, and ensures the implementation in the domestic legal order of Regulation ( EU ) No 537 / 2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements for the legal review of public interest entities ; draft law No 962 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens supervisory obligations by the Banco de Portugal and transparency in conducting audits to credit institutions and financial corporations ( thirty-sixth amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ) ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1487 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Determines the recomposition and immobilization of assets held by the Espírito Santo Group, the Banco Espírito Santo and the members of the GES Superior Council ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1488 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — determines the public control of credit institutions and financial corporations with relevance to Portuguese economic policy and financial system, considering the segregation of financial and non-financial components in mixed groups ( CFP ) ; draft law No 963 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies and the legal framework of the National Council of Financial Supervisors, providing for specific measures to strengthen the stability of the Portuguese financial system; draft resolution No 1489 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of challenges with a view to strengthening the stability of the Portuguese financial system ( PS ) ; Bill No. 964 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — regulates the access and exercise of the activity of evaluators of real estate providing services to entities of the national financial system ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1490 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of restrictive measures in the marketing of risk financial products by credit institutions and financial corporations ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1491 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make efforts in the supranational sphere to make the financial system more transparent ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1492 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to promote and ensure efficient collaboration and coordination between the various financial supervisory entities — Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and the Insurance and Pension Fund Supervisory Authority ( ASF ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1493 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement urgent measures leading to an increase in short-term financial literacy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The assessment of draft resolution No 1484 / XII ( 4 ) continues. ( a ) — Guiding principles for the revision of the European Neighbourhood Policy ( EAC) and the motion for a resolution No 109 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol to Review the Framework Agreement on Cooperation between the Portuguese Republic and the Macao Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, signed in Macao on 17 May 2014. Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. [[It was 18 hours and 2 minutes.]]
