ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 18 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. We shall begin our work by reading the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: project of lein. 53 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for access to invalidity and old age pensions by workers of the National Uranio Company, SA, which provides for the right to death or sickness compensation ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the deadlines laid down in Law No 26 / 2013 of 11 April regulating the distribution, sale and application of plant protection products ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 55 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combat forced labour and other forms of labour exploitation ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft deliberation No 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment to Resolution No 11 - PL / 2015 of 12 November fixing the list and composition of standing parliamentary committees ( RA President ). Mr President, I am reading the report and the opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members, which should then be voted on. The report and its opinion are therefore as follows: [[‘At the meeting of the Possible Credentials Committee, held on 27 November 2015, for 9 hours and 30 minutes, the following terms of reference and replacements were observed:]] ( a) Mandate appointments in accordance with Article 6. , paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 27 November 2015, including: Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party ( PSD ) : Émídio Émíio I Gugueririo (Electoral circle of Braga ), ending Maria Celeste Cardoso, ending Maria Celeste Cardoso ; Jorge Moreeira da Silva ( Electoral circle of Braga ), ending Rui Silva, ending Rui Silva, ending Rui Silva ; Manuel Rodrigues ( Electoral circle of Coimbra ), ending Ana Oliveira, ending Ana Oliveira, Margarida Mano ( Electoral circle of Coimbra ), ending Nuno Encarno Incarnation ; Teresa Morai ( Electoral circle of Leiria of Leiria ), ending Maria Sofia of the Conceitorio do Pedro Elétor,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,.,,,.,,,,.,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Centre-Popular Party ( CDS-PP ) : João Pinho de Almeida ( Electoral Circle of Aveiro ), ending Lília Ana Águas ; Assumption Cristas ( Electoral Circle of Leiria ), ending Manuel Isaac ; Paulo Portas ( Electoral Circle of Lisbon ), ending Filipe Anacoreta Correia ; Pedro Mota Soares ( Electoral Circle of Porto ), ending Francisco Mendes da Silva. ( b) Replacements of Members in accordance with Article 20. paragraph 1 ( a) of the Statute of Deputies, with effect from 27 November 2015, including: Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party ( PS ) : Pedro Nuno Nuno Santos (Círculo Electoral of Aveiro ), by Carla Elitoral of Costa Tavares ; Fernando Rocha Andrade, by António Cardoso (Círculo Electoral of Aveiro ) ; Manuel Caldeira Cabral (Círculo Electoral of Braga ), by Palma Maciel Fernando da Costa Tavares ; Fernando Rocha Andrade ; Fernando Rocha Andrade, by Antonio Rolector, by Antonio Maciel Fernandes da Costa ; Fernando Rolor ; Jorge Gomes (Círculo Electoral of Bragança ), by Júl Maria Maria de Almeida Lima Maria de Almeida Lima and Seques Silva Silva Pasos ; Margarina Cí Cíques Cétoral Marques (Círculo Electoral of Leiria ), by, by Odete João ; Ancóio Costa, by Antonio, by Antonio, Per Per Per Electoral ; Elector of Lisbon ; Electoral of Lisbon of Lisbon of Lisbon of Lisbon . ;..... 2. Having examined the relevant documents available to the Commission, it was found that the indicated substitutes are really the non-elected candidates who should be called to office, considering the order of precedence of their electoral lists submitted by the alluded parties in the electoral circles. 3. The applicable laws and regulations were observed. 4. in this regard, the Commission intends to deliver the following opinion: the assumption and replacements of a term of office are to be admitted as legal requirements have been found.'
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The new ladies. Members can now enter the Chamber. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed that there are many Members who have not yet been able to make the electronic register, so I ask the new Members to go to the Support Division of the Plenary to proceed with this electronic register until the scheduled time of the vote. I take advantage to greet all the newcomers, even though some are not exactly stressful in these views, and wish them a good job and a happy presence in this legislature. Mrs. Members, we are going to enter the agenda, which has, as a first point, the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 37 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Elimination of national examinations of 1. the basic education cycle(BE) and 44 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eliminates final evidence of 1. the basic education cycle ( PCP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today presents the revocation of the final assessment evidence of the 4. year. It is known that the Left Block has a very critical view of exams as evaluation tools. The presentation of this project today therefore responds to an urgent need and a broad consensus in society, but it does not erase the need to review exams in other teaching cycles, particularly those in 6. year. This is therefore the beginning and not the end of a debate. Everyone understands why we started here. The end of the 4th exams. the class was one of the first claims of 25 April,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u6	... made on behalf of a school that builds citizens and citizens, a school capable of transmitting and evaluating human, social, political and cultural competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u7	And it doesn't assess much!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u8	That was the future that democracy brought to school and that Minister Nuno Crato decided to interrupt against all international recommendations and examples. With the reintroduction of the examinations of 4. the year was chosen the facilitation rather than the requirement and the laborious learning not only of knowledge but also of knowledge, of being, of thinking and of being, because it is easier to train and mechanize than to develop skills for life, because it is easier to exclude and create mechanisms of early selection than to include, integrate and work with the richness of diversity, because it is easier to punish than to inspire. The result of this facilitation was the return to the past, in which the first four years of education began to function around a blind evidence, is blind to the socio-economic context of children, is blind to the community, is blind to its reality and, worse than that, ultimately, is blind to children themselves who want to evaluate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The tests narrowed the evaluation capacity and created a process of distrust and devaluation on the work of teachers. And we asked: who is better to evaluate the course of the development of a child? The natural answer is: it is the teacher who accompanied her and taught her for years! The answer to Nuno Crato's vision is "No! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The best thing to evaluate a 9-year-old is a process in which a 9-year-old is moved to a school that does not know, with teachers who do not know, to do a test that will determine his future and on which he has to sign, imagine, for his honor. Does that sound scary? Does he look violent? It's because it is! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The best description of this violence, but also the best answer for it, was given to us by a Mariana, mother of a nine-year-old Carolina: "No, I don't want to protect my daughter from belly pain, adrenaline peaks and vain anxiety. I just want her to realize that they don't make her more capable, smarter, more responsible, happier, or better prepared." For this reason, and so many others, this project wants to end the exams that parents, students and teachers have already plummeted and proposes to do so immediately, and this is not surprising. What is surprising is that 40 years later there are still Members and Members in this House who do not understand what any nine-year-old Carolina can explain that the exams do not make children more capable, smarter, or happier, make them more limited, more distressed, more formatted and more individualistic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] They are unnecessary violence, they are a "Crato" error that will be corrected today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u9	Madam Member, the Bureau has been flexible over time, because the Member has exceeded her time. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech in plenary, I welcome Mr President and the honourable Members. Members elected in this XIII Parliament and I wish a good job. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the final evidence of 1. the cycle, implemented by the PSD and CDS, lies in false premises: greater rigor and quality of teacher work and better quality of student learning. in fact, there is no scientific-pedagogic support that attests to this improvement of student learning and that validates the rigor and quality of teachers. on the contrary, the students' learnings do not improve, they worsen! Why? Because students are limited in developing essential skills for their harmonious growth. Responsibilities of analysis, critical spirit and creativity are diminished by the need to be trained for the tests, valuing, yes, the competences of memorization and interpretation, to be evaluated in national examinations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u12	The conditions under which children perform the tests of 4. the year is also causing instability, pressure and stress for children with, on average, 9 and 10 years. Otherwise, we see : they perform the proof, in most cases, at the school headquarters of the grouping, that they do not know; surveillance is done by two teachers who have never seen; they are required rules that they have never heard of, for example, assume the absurd commitment, in writing, not to use mobile phones during the test.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u13	Ridiculous! [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD/CDS option for the application of final tests, weighing 30 % in the final evaluation of the student, devalues the continuous evaluation and contradicts the assumption of a public and inclusive school, by forgetting the economic, social and cultural conditions of children and their families. But the truth is that this policy option of valuing continuous evaluation requires material and human conditions in all schools, according to the pedagogical projects constructed by school communities, and also requires the creation of conditions for the availability of professionals (teachers, operational assistants, psychologists and other technicians) that contribute to the improvement of the teaching-learning process and thus the effective inclusion of all students. It also requires material conditions, such as sports equipment, enclosed libraries, etc. In short, this evaluation requires a school organization based on pedagogical strategies, within and outside the classroom, with encouragement and reinforcement of strategies for the acquisition of knowledge, reflection and critical spirit. Only the continuous assessment, for the previous PSD/CDS government, is sick of a problem. It is this assessment, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it requires an investment policy in public school, an appreciation of its professionals, the creation of stability policies in the organization and development of work, contrary to those which have been adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u16	Finally, it is important to state that the current exam evaluation process is a first moment of selection of students, returning to the old exam of 4. the class, of bad memory, which so much harmed the children of the socially weaker classes. Today, the CFP proposes the end of the examinations of 1. the cycle, but our position is against the exams of the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles, so we have already launched an initiative to put an end to these exams as well. The PCP rejects these tests, which transform children into racing horses, trained for racing that in no way benefits them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u18	Just use people according to numbers, whether they come from gains from lack of investment, either to feed rankings that only account for half-truth and always penalize them. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u20	Mr. President, Distinta Mesa, Ms. and Mrs. Members: The examinations of, then, 4. the class ended in 1974. In 2012 and 38 years after 25 April, the unexplained and selective national examinations for the 1st came out of the shelf. the cycle. A return to the past that does not coincide with the school of the 21st century, that wants to be watered, multidisciplinary and rigorous, that evaluates learning through measurement, providing conditions for the cognitive and integral development of the student to be done with quality and inclusion, but that does not do the exams and the "culture of the note" the school centre and the final end of education, as the Ministry of Education and Science has done in recent years. in fact, this evidence, as conceived, showed not to evaluate learning, nor showed scientific-pedagogical validity, but the devaluation of something very important, which is the continuous evaluation of the consistent work of students and teachers throughout the year, devalued skills such as the students' orality, their critical analysis, their creativity, overestimating the memorization, have a negative effect of pressure and concern, especially throughout the whole 2. the period, there is an obvious disturbance in the teaching of areas not subject to proof and in the organization and regular operation of schools where the tests are performed. Above all, what was most criticized by various international bodies was the prematurity of the examination, which, at this early age, 9 or 10 years, does not attest to the quality of teaching and learning, since all the context in which these tests are carried out can even negatively adulterate the evaluation and be potentiator of exclusion and inequality. at this early age, this exam makes Portugal a case study isolated, only accompanied by Turkey, moreover, from there also the OECD criticism. It is an evaluation model that, as conceived, is blind to the logic of inclusive school because it devalues economic, social and cultural conditions of students and their families. These examinations, criticized by the OECD, the Portuguese Teachers' Association and the National Education Council ( National Education Council) are, in my view, something for which we have to look, since, in the latest recommendation of the National Education Council, Recommendation No. 2 / 2015 is said very clearly that fewer tests are required and with less weight. The CNE also advocates the re-evaluation of the existence of national examinations in paragraph 4. the year and that the implications of the results of the final tests are reconsidered in the continuation of studies. This unsuspecting and reliable Council tells us, moreover, that what we have to do, that the great urgency is to diagnose the difficulties of learning as soon as possible, as soon as possible, in preschool and in the early years of 1. the cycle. What is defended are more diversified curricula and also diversified educational pathways, less extensive programs and the reorganization of basic education. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the last four years, after years of marked improvement and well-known gains at the level of equity — Portugal was the sixth in a list of 35 countries — school failure increased in basic education. And, more recently,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u21	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u22	... in the latest CNE report, it is found that this failure and retention continue to rise. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say that the PS and the government, recently in position, reject tools for evaluation or early dualization, and are obviously in favour of measuring and monitoring learning.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u24	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President, with your kindness. Poverty, unemployment and emigration are the dramas of the present. But the drama of the future would continue to invest in public school, education and science, as has happened in the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech at the plenary I would like to congratulate the Bureau and make a successful vote on the conduct of the work. The Left Block and the PCP today put to our consideration two draft laws aimed at eliminating national examinations No 1. the cycle of basic education. I begin by explaining that the sum evaluation is an instrument intrinsic to the teaching system, measuring and regulating, which aims to improve the quality of education. I also say that in the case of 1. the cycle, external evaluation has a weight of 30 %, which means that continuous evaluation, which reflects the entire history of relationship between the teacher and the student, continues to have a weight of 70 %, opening wide margin to all legitimate forms of formative evaluation — promoters of other competences, such as orality, creativity and critical thinking — occur and compete for the school success of students, of all origins. The Left Block argues that, and I quote, « instead of an instrument of success in school, the exams proved to be an instrument of inequality, because it is indifferent to students, their families and to the social and cultural contexts where the school is inserted ». I say that equality of opportunity is to allow, it is to ensure that all students, regardless of their social, economic and cultural context, meet the minimum requirements for their education cycle in order to pass well prepared for the next cycle. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what Mrs Joana Mortágua has said, we do not want to go back to times of facilitation but rather to base our teaching system on criteria of demand, equity and incentive to school success, which are not excluded by principle, which is why the previous Government has established complementary mechanisms — an extraordinary period of preparation for a second call — so that all students can progress. Finally, it argues to the CFP that this proof, I quote, « fits a first moment of selection of students». Indeed, I say that in the recent report on the State of Education 2014, of the National Council for Education, suspect and reliable, it can be read on page 212 that « (...) the vast majority of students who carried out the tests did not see their final classifications altered as a result of these tests ». To conclude, I put the following questions: by eliminating these tests, without proposing alternatives, such as, moreover, the FNE itself (National Federation of Education) suggests, they prefer the Block and the PCP to hide and therefore perpetuate failure since 1. the cycle? Oh, my God! [[That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u27	Do they prefer, as a result, the application of remedial strategies later when the repetitions have settled and consolidated? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u28	On behalf of the Bureau, I thank you for your compliments and also wish you the greatest happiness for your mandate. For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also congratulate Mr President, at the beginning of his duties, wishing to succeed in the conduct of the work. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block and PCP bills today bring the elimination of the national examinations of 1. the cycle of basic education. I remember the ladies. Members that the XIX Constitutional Government Programme provided for the generalization of the external assessment, with final evidence, in all cycles of the same basic education. More: the electoral programme that won the elections on 4 October, which was supported and elected Pedro Passos Coelho as Prime Minister, also defended the same culture of demand, the same rigor and the same will to improve the quality of what is taught and what is learned. The people have chosen the requirement, they have not chosen the facilitation! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u30	We did not need to usurp the power to impose on the country a vision that he did not suffer, of iniquity, of defeatism, unrealistic, which does not allow our students to compare with the best students in other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u31	Where there are no tests!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u32	Everyone, but everyone, we want the best for our children. And our families know that, in life, nothing can be easily achieved. Moreover, the facilities, which, by the way, will also be the practice of this socratic power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u34	... it was the motto that led us, with enormous lightness, to one of the worst periods of our collective history:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u36	... bankruptcy, bankruptcy, discredited Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u37	What about the exams? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u38	We do not want this spirit and practice to be introduced into our schools, into our students. on the contrary, we want students, regardless of their social and economic context, to be poor or rich, rural or urban, to acquire knowledge and to meet the minimums required to pass from year. And this is only possible with final evidence,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... where students are compared to each other; without them, students with difficulties are abandoned to their insecurity and alone in their inadequacies. This is what the Left Block wants and this is what the Portuguese Communist Party defends :... [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u39	... that they abandon students with difficulties, because when we don't know who they are, we can't help them! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, trouble can only increase from here to the front! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] As for the PS, we check the same always. Again, he has not yet presented the Government's programme and is already failing to comply with the programme which he approved on 7 November in the political committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u41	And, as you have seen, dazzled with the partners, leans to the left and eliminates, without saying why. The PS was ashamed to assume, in its electoral programme, as far as he wanted to go. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u42	And he was ashamed to say, in an election campaign, that he would — finally, to the lack of better words — make an agreement of convenience with the PCP and the Left Block, because it would be a drift to the left, that the history of the PS itself in times denied.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u43	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u44	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that I hope that today, with power and full of you, you can at least realize that our students deserve more and that now, after the raided house, they are ashamed enough not to abandon the students, eliminating the evidence that can best defend them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u45	Mrs Nilza de Sena, thank you very much for the words addressed to the Bureau, which we have paid. On comfort or discomfort, as long as the Bureau is comfortable, you can make the interventions you understand. For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Members Ana Rita Bessa and Nilza of Sena : It seems to me impressive the sudden concern with students, students and children, in particular those who have special educational needs. Looks like the ladies. Members don't know the school and the state of the school they left in the country. [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u47	It seems you don't know that there are teachers who alone take care of a whole class for a whole year, during whole days, classes with more than 20 students,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u48	... to which they have to teach and educate, some with special educational needs. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, if they were more concerned with support, more teachers, more conditions and less examinations, perhaps students there could actually say that they have a country and a government that cares about them, because the truth is that this is a unique case in Europe, a unique case of a conservative, square view of education in Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is not worth saying that we compare ourselves to the best in Europe, when there is no one to compare with! There is no other country in Europe that exercises this violence against children of 6,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u49	Six years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u50	... 7, 8, 9 years old, as Portugal did, by a conservative vision of Minister Nuno Crato, against the evolution that it brought on 25 April.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u51	You have already exceeded your time, Mrs Deputy, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u52	I shall finish, Mr President, to deny the speech of success in school. It is true that there is less retention in 4. the year, but do not want to hide that there are more retentions in 3. the year, because the children do not even reach the 4th. I'm afraid they won't pass the exam. The ghost of the examination is always present! [[Congratulations on the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u53	Mrs. Members, having completed the first item on our agenda, we move on to the second point which consists of the assessment of draft resolution No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) - Recommends to the Government the creation of a social development programme ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To make the presentation of the diploma, you have the floor of Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, Portugal and the Portuguese have faced the most difficult moments of our recent history. Thanks to the guidance of the PSD/CDS Government and the courage, determination and spirit of solidarity of the Portuguese, in close partnership with the institutions of social solidarity, it was possible to face the very serious economic, financial and social situation in which the country was and which was legislated to us by the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u56	An exceptional and difficult time required a social emergency plan, where in four years the government invested about EUR 1 million to support families with greater economic and social precariousness. With much work and sacrifice, it was possible to dispense the troika and its demands, regain external credibility, make the economy grow, the income of work to be gradually returned, create jobs to be increased and unemployment to be reduced. Free from the constraints imposed on us by external creditors, it is time to move from the social emergency to social development. It is time to bet on valuing people, strengthening the protection of the most disadvantaged and promoting social mobility. It is time to implement a social development program, which must be cross-sectional and multisectoral, involving the Public Administration, the authorities and, in a very active way, the institutions of the social economy. We defend the development of a new generation of public policies, focused on the capacity and autonomy of people and families, which involve local communities in which social cohesion is inserted and promoted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u58	It is in this framework that we recommend to the government that it receive a country not in a state of social emergency but rather in growth and with credibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u59	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u60	... and that through, in particular, the strong contribution of the Community funds of the Operational Programme for Social Inclusion and Employment ( POISE ) can implement measures in the areas of social action, the economy, health, taxation — because I cannot quote them for a short time — these measures that bet on people, their social valorization and which contribute to reducing social inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, past the moments of social emergency, we must look forward, believe in the future and, as the path traced was the right way, if they did not spoil it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u61	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u62	... bet on valuing people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u64	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u65	...fighting poverty, social inequalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u66	There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u67	...and thus contribute to strengthening social cohesion. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u68	To give an intervention and present the draft resolution, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution recommends the urgent adoption of a social development programme. It corresponds to a compromise of the CDS and PSD, but more than that, it is a very comprehensive program. It is a program for the older population; it is a program for families, for which, in fact, it defends, as our commitment, the replacement of the 4. o is 5. the steps of family allowance; it is a program to combat early school dropout; it is a program to give continuity to the local social development network and it is also a program—and it is important to mention it today, because it is apparently called into question—that recognizes the role of the social economy,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u70	...the role of the social sector and the role of social institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u71	Big enough to make poor people! They're just coming up with a conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u72	... in its fundamental dimension of providing services to populations. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u73	You killed us!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a programme that forms part of a budget, a budget for a country that has emerged from an emergency situation. This is because if we often hear the government and the PSD and CDS being accused of going beyond the troika — and from a social point of view, it is true that they went beyond the troika — they did so to defend those who need it most!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u76	And that is why, for example, in a context where minimum social and rural pensions were frozen, it was possible to continue to increase them, and to increase them every year, above inflation. This is how these pensions were increased in 2012, 3, 1 %, 2013, 1, 1 %, 2014, 1 %, and in 2015, 1 %, always above inflation and always allowing these about 1 million Portuguese, who are the poorest of the poorest, to have more purchasing power and actually gain purchasing power. In a way, frankly! , quite tragic, it does not cease to be curious today that those who have often not only criticized but have come to enjoy these increases...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u78	...come now, with undoubtedness, propose substantially lower increases, saying that they are defending the poorest. This is a mess, it's a real mess that needs to be reported. In conclusion, with regard to this social development programme, I will say that it covers those who need the most: the older, the weaker, among the younger. It is a program dedicated to families and people, recognizing the fundamental role of social institutions. That was our commitment. This is our project. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u79	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Meeting the increase in poverty and inequality over the past four years is the first priority of the Socialist Party and the best contribution of all is needed, and I believe that we all agree on this point. however, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party cannot follow the draft resolution of the PSD and CDS for three fundamental reasons: the first, because of the inability this project reveals to understand the reality of the social situation we live in and the Portuguese face. in the last four and a half years, poverty has increased, the risk of poverty has increased, the severity of poverty has increased. Poverty, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, increased cross-sectionally to all groups: in children and young people, in families with children, in older people, in workers. Poverty has increased not only across all groups, as the poor have become poorer and, as poverty has increased, inequalities have also increased. Therefore, the social context in which we live today and that we have to deal with is that in which poverty has increased, inequalities have increased, precariousness has increased, employment has decreased and our ability to create wealth is also weakened. Therefore, this draft resolution, by ignoring reality, makes a wrong diagnosis, and wrong diagnoses cannot give right proposals, as this proposal is not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u81	The second reason why we cannot follow this project is because the deepening of a programme, the social emergency program, which has proved unable to contain or even reduce poverty, in the context of expansionist austerity is a program that cannot be deepened, because, in its assumptions, is wrong. When the country registered almost 18 % of employment, the proposal of the PSD and the CDS was to weaken social minimum policies. They put everything on the rise in minimum pensions, at the expense of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. What happened? Today, poverty in the elderly has risen. They put everything on the weakening of the RSI (social income of insertion) to bet on the welfare response of the social canteens. What happened? Poverty has spread to all groups and families today are the poorest. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has a clear programme that is based on the combination of social policies with employment policies, vocational training policies, policies to combat precariousness, with a right proposal to combat poverty. A national poverty eradication programme, this is what the Socialist Party is proposing to correct in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative, which we are discussing today, of the PSD and CDS is an act of deep political hypocrisy and contempt for the lives of entire families that have destroyed by poverty, poverty and the backwardness they have imposed on the country in the past four years. Political hypocrisy because they are responsible for the worst worsening of poverty, since fascism, and claim that Portugal is today a better country. Mr. President and Mr. Members, now, after four years of government to cut into unemployment allowance and social unemployment allowance, family allowance, social income for insertion, to deny special education allowance to thousands of children, disability bonus in family allowance, PSD and CDS present recommendations for reposing what they have withdrawn and denied over four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u84	Shame! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u85	Between 2010 and 2015, the Portuguese Communist Party proposed at least eight times the replacement of the 4. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, these eight times, what was the vote of the PSD and the CDS-PP? Against! Between 2010 and 2015, the PCP proposed at least five times the increase in the value of the solidarity complement for the elderly. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, what was the vote? PSD and CDS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u86	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u87	Between 2010 and 2015, the CFP proposed at least five times the thawing of the indexer of social support that determines the allocation of social support. How did they vote on PSD and CDS-PP? Against! Between 2010 and 2015, the PCP proposed at least five times the increase in the minimum pension value by 25 €. What was the vote of the PSD and the CDS-PP? Against! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four years of government have shown that the political agenda of the PSD and the CDS-PP is to transform social rights, which represent a conquest of the April Revolution, into charity. Social rights are not the kind that a government gives people. Social rights are State obligations in the fight against poverty and in the guarantee of dignity in each person's life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u89	Therefore, four years of government were a step backwards that you imposed on the country. It was a backwardness and indignity imposed on the lives of all and each and who condemned emigration, unemployment and poverty. The fight defeated that path. The struggle must impose a path of dignity, development and social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u90	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP, I must say that I was impressed by the draft resolution that the right brings to this Parliament, because a document like what they present here with so many measures actually worked and implied at least two operations which were copy and paste. The gentlemen. Members, basically, bring here a document that is a mix of themes from the PSD and CDS-PP program that has already been discussed. They're waiting for what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? What's the idea? You change your head to see if it happens? We have already read these proposals, we have noticed them, we have discussed them and we have even voted them! And they were plummeted not because we hadn't noticed but because we don't agree, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, because we have differences. We have differences because, to the right, social development in health is to deliver health care to mercy and, for us, is to defend the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] We have differences because social development in education, on the right, is to impose vocational education, so that each child is « in his or her cock», and they call this diversification of paths. For us, this is social segmentation and it is to separate school destinations where there should be equality. To the right, social development in child support policies is private daycare and, for us, they are public daycare and it is the extension of preschool. On the right hand hand, employment policies are basically giving discounts to employers in social security and, for us, employment creation policies are breaking this cycle of austerity, it is having public investment, it is having employment with rights, it is having a fairer tax system and it is having a decent job of that name, which are not biscuits, that are not internships and that is not precarious. Finally, to the right, combating poverty and social support is contractual with the private and is the charity industry. For us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, combating poverty and social support are equality policies, they are wealth redistribution policies, they are income recovery policies, they are public social security policies, they are social rights policies. Social rights is not making poverty a business!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u93	Social rights are rights that people have because they are citizens, it's not a soup and a luncheon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries, so perhaps we can move on to the next item on the agenda. Mr Nuno Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u95	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u96	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u97	Mr President, on the conduct of the work, I would like to say that there was an understanding at the Conference of Leaders of being the proponents of the projects to close the debate. Of course, we have signed up to close the debate with the guarantee or, at least, with the clarification that this understanding is to maintain, because, in fact, tradition is no longer what it was and we have already understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u98	For us, we keep it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u99	If everything has changed, or not, it is what we would like to know, i.e. if there are no inscriptions, we can assume and assume that the given word will be fulfilled, it will continue and, in this case, we will close the debate, as we have been doing for 4-5 years. That is the only explanation I would like to get, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u100	The honourable Member is right. There really is this understanding of the parties proposing to close the debates. Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor, but I ask you not to waste much time on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u101	No, Mr President, I just want to clarify what communist word is worth as much as a signed role. Therefore, on our part, the commitment we have made remains. [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u102	You then have the floor to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u103	Mr President, I assume that, not being part of the Conference of Leaders, I did not know this understanding. Moreover, it is an understanding that has not always been found in the previous legislatures and, therefore, the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] True, in the previous legislation there was no such understanding. There was and often we had that usual "scene" of the inscriptions being intermittent, given who was finishing the debate. I take this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, naturally.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u104	Madam Member, Mr PAN had the right to give the Socialist Party one minute, but I think that the Member is using it more for an appeal to the Bureau than for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u105	Mr President, I was just trying to make it clear that I did not know this decision of the Conference of Leaders and that I was therefore here in good faith. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, concluding this speech in this debate, I would like to say that, in fact, and I repeat, the PSD and the CDS-PP assume this draft resolution based on a misdiagnosis of Portuguese reality. Moreover, Mrs Maria das Mercès Borges said that, assuming that we were on the right track and that we had to move on to a second stage. For the Socialist Party, we are not on the right path. Portugal's social and economic situation is very complicated and serious and the page needs to be turned around.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u106	You've outlived your time, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u107	Changing the austerity page also means turning the program page as the Social Emergency Program. We have a different proposal, we have a proposal that we consider more correct and we will build it by combating poverty and combating inequalities, because that is an essential condition for our development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u108	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have heard from several benches a story that I have frankly heard many times over these four years and in which, basically, Portugal in 2011 was a kind of country that swayed between the oasis and the paradise and arrived at some parties that, it is not known whether by evil, by sadism or by any means, have resolved, I do not know why, taking very varied measures of austerity and attack on the populations. The rescue, the troika, the fact that the country is "a black one" of having no money to pay wages and pensions, all this, apparently, did not exist, was a sort of imagination. It is a narrative often repeated, but the truth is that, more often than not, it does not stop being a mere illusion and a mere escape from reality. The truth is that the country was, in fact, "a black woman" who had no money to pay wages and pensions and was about to need a ransom. contrary to what is often said here, we have indeed had a country in recession and redemption and today we do not have. And that is why we can be discussing other measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u111	But, responding directly to the CFP, I have heard a lot of inquiries about how we vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u112	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u113	Of course, Mr. President. I know very well how we vote, but the CFP is now not a party to the opposition, it is a party to government, it is a party to support the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u114	Exactly! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u115	So let's see, now that they can stop talking and start doing, how the PCP will vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u116	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u117	I want to see if we're going to see votes today or if we're going to see vote leaks, because I think we're going to see leaks. [[CDS-PP and PSD Members applauded]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u118	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The interventions that came from the left parties do not scare us, because it was the cassette heard over these four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u120	Look who's coming to talk in cassette!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u121	... when they should have contributed to help raise the country, which, in large part, your coalition partner destroyed. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, we will indeed turn to the page. We will turn the page by recovering the Country and today we will hand it over to you, because you wanted it in a completely different way and in a completely different way. But we do not forget to take important social measures. We did not freeze the minimum pensions, as you wanted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u122	I was in the Memorandum protecting minimum pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u123	And now, for the parties on the left, who are not partners — not because this is a very expensive word — but with whom they have a convergence, it is unfortunate that they have not converged in the measures on family allowance, because whoever abolished family allowance was the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u124	It was with the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u125	We didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u126	Oh, go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u127	It was the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u128	It was the PS government and the MP's.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u129	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u130	I shall now conclude, Mr President, by saying, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we brought here was another programme, a programme with which it is possible today to respond to people, everyone and everyone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u131	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to point 3 of our agenda, which consists of the joint debate of the projects of lein.o 25 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of direct adjustment and of the process of « sub-concession » to the private of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ) and 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the public public public transport service of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, and the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE ( PCP ), in general ; of draft resolutions Nos 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the annulment of the sub-concession of the transport systems of the Lisbon Railway Company, SA ( Carris, SA ) and the Lisbon Metropolitan, EP ( ML, EP ) ( PS ), 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal and reversal of the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA and the Collective Transport Society of the Port, SA ( PS ), 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the public management of the companies STCP and Metro do Porto ( Os Verdes ) and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the transport systems of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens), and of the projects of lein. 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the basis for the concession of the light metro system of the port and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA(BE), 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service by making the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June and repealing Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, determining the nullity of acts in the meantime practised in violation of this diploma ( BE), 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the cancellation and reversal of the process of sub-concession of the STCP and amends the Statutes of the STCP, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July ( BE) and 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintains the legal personality and autonomous existence of the Metropolitan of Lisbon, EPE, of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, da Transtejo, Transportes do Tejo, SA, e da Soflusa, Sociedade Fluvial de Transports, SA ( BE ), in general. To present the projects of lein.o 25 and 22 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), from the initiative of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the palate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the PCP, our first word in this debate is for the workers of the STCP, the Lisbon Metropolitan, the Carris and the Port Metro. We greet the workers and reaffirm what workers demonstrate every day: it is worth fighting, it is worth not putting down their arms, because it was the struggle of the workers who brought us here. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] We already know that on the side of the PSD and the CDS-PP will certainly come again the defiant diatribe against the workers and their struggles. We already know that PSD and CDS-PP will bring here the wonders of these PPP contracts for transport and that they will say again « do not damage! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course, they do not spoil the guaranteed revenue for the large economic groups, they do not spoil the EUR 1075 million transferred to the private only in the Metro of Lisbon and EUR 420 million in the Metro of Porto. They do not break the financial rebalancing clauses, genuine loopholes that would serve for much more million to be removed from the state. Do not ruin the deep blow in EMEF, threatening the future of the company in relation to the maintenance of the Port Metro! Do not damage the blockade to the hiring of staff, which has constantly led to the cutting of careers, especially for the missing 150 drivers in the STCP. They do not damage the fusion of Carris, Metro, Transtex and Soflusa, on the edge of the law, in the destruction of jobs and in the alienation of the means of companies. They do not damage, they will say the right, the degradation of safety standards, which have taken decades to build and defend, in the public transport service. No, sir. Members of the PSD and the CDS, you are not going to ruin any more! That's enough! [[PCP applause.]] The PCP initiative, with these projects and this schedule in the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, serves precisely to allow and contribute to put an end to this shame. No more violations of the law and the Constitution! It is enough to sell the country to the parts, to give the national interest to the economic groups! Stop dismantling the public service! No more rights attacks! No more blackmails, persecutions and insults to workers! once and for all, we will put an end to these ruinous processes, these PPPs in public transport. This is the time to give concrete consequence to the majority will of the Portuguese people. It is in this sense that the CFP presents this serious and constructive contribution to a solution to be reached in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u133	To present draft resolutions Nos 12 and 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), from the initiative of the PS, Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a historic day for the transport sector. It's a historic day for the public passenger transport service. It is a historic day for the Carris, the Lisbon Metro, the STCP and the Port Metro. Today is a historic day for the workers of these companies. It is a historic day for the struggle of the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisboa. It is a historic day for the defence of public interest in the transport sector. It is a historic day because today we are beginning to put an end to the greatest ideological attack launched in the transport sector. During the last half year, PS, PCP, The Greens and BE, autarchs and workers, fought to prevent the dismantling of the public passenger transport service, launched by the previous PSD / CDS government. in the last months of the term of office, seven privatization processes and sub-concessions to privates: TAP, CP Cargo, EMEF, Carris, Metro Lisbon, Metro do Porto and STCP. We are therefore here to fulfill an election promise to cancel, revoke and reverse private sub-concession processes at Metro do Porto, STCP, Metro Lisbon and Carris. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The former Government has never been concerned with defending the public interest. The sub-concessions of the Carris and the Lisbon Metro were launched at the heart of the conversations that were being established between the City Council of Lisbon and the administrations of these companies. Since the beginning that the City Council of Lisbon has expressed interest in taking on the management of the city's collective transports. We continue to defend that this is the best solution, it is the solution that best defends the interest of users and the optimization of the network. Only that the former Government, which, on the second, Wednesday and Friday, tested the discourse of decentralisation for the authorities, to promote inter-administrative contracts with the authorities, on Tuesday and Thursday, did not reproduce this speech and refused to make an administrative contract with the City Council of Lisbon for the management of these transport companies. As for the Porto-STCP Metro competition, it was launched against all political agents, against all the authorships, against social agents and economic agents. It was a contest that did not defend the mobility of the Metropolitan, a contest full of errors, launched in a hurry. And what was the result? The government has used EMEF to arouse the interest of at least one competition competitor. in the contract, the government introduced more revenue and less expenditure to favour this single competitor in relation to what was in the orderbook. The Government has used an extinct entity by itself, the Metropolitan Authority and Port Transport, to enable this competition. The Government has been subject to a number of inquiries through these public undertakings by the Court of Auditors in the face of the doubts and mistakes generated in the tendering procedure, in the book of charges and in the contract. And what was the result? The only competitor to this contest ended up giving up. Government response: A few days after the elections, the Government launched a direct adjustment of EUR 870 million for the sub-concession of the operations of Metro do Porto and STCP, a shame that is justified only by ideological fury and the political agenda that the PSD and the CDS have brought to the extreme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, when we cancel these sub-concessions, we managed to prevent a bad deal for the State and a terrible service to the metropolitan mobility of Porto and Lisbon ; we prevented collective redundancies that were being prepared between the Government and the sub-concessionaries; we prevented the reduction of supply and also prevented the degradation of circulating material. The government was preparing to hand over the profits and the profitable share of these companies to the private and keep in the state what was less profitable and the losses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u135	For an intervention to present the Green Initiatives, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are proud to present to the Assembly of the Republic today legislative initiatives aimed at reversing the processes of granting private transport from Lisbon and Porto, in particular the STCPs, the Port Metro, the Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan. It was a gross error committed by the former Government, in a desire to privatize everything they could and could not do in Portugal. That was the great obsession, or one of the great obsessions, of the previous government, a total discrediting of everything that had public management and a privatising fury of surrender to privates of all they could. And, essentially, in the transport sector this was extremely obvious. It was clearly to the detriment of the State, to the detriment of users and to the detriment of workers, without guarantees, even to promote the quality of such transport. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know the importance that urban transport has for promoting the quality of life of people and for the quality of life in cities; we know the importance that they have for the mobility of populations and we also know the importance of the quality and safety that they need to offer to the people so that the urban trend towards the excessive use of individual transport in order to use collective transport is reversed. The ladies and gentlemen. Members are certainly reminded of the various and numerous initiatives that the Greens have presented, in the past legislature, to encourage the massive use of individual transport in cities to make massive use of collective transport. For that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a quality offer, which is not governed by the interests of the private sector, but by the interests of the users and by great respect for the workers. I underline this part, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because I am not going to repeat it here, but we all remember what we heard from the bench of the previous government on this issue of privatization of transport and it was a very deep disrespect, expressed in this House, for all workers. It was a real shame. It is time to put an end to these shames and therefore we are proud of the projects we present here today to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u137	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the second day of parliamentary votes, this House is again making history. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] History that does not result from the calendar that today marks the first day of a new government, whose genesis is anchored in a new political majority that resulted from the free choice of Portuguese on 4 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u139	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u140	History that reflects, as happened a week ago, the new political majority that prepares to correct serious mistakes of previous governance and which had as its primary effect, in this particular case, « leave urban transport in Lisbon and Porto ». I am glad that today, present in the galleries, numerous representatives of trade union organizations and trade union committees, such as STCP, Metro do Porto, Carris, Metro de Lisboa, and of several organizations such as FECTRANS, SITRA, National Trade Union of Motorists, and others, to whom I greet and thank the presence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, this House is preparing to do justice. Justice to restore consistency in the functioning of the transport systems in Lisbon and Porto, to which the previous Government has wrongly chosen to remove project coherence and dismantle the integrated management of the various transport networks by choosing, in the case of Lisbon, « to tire » the most relevant companies for the system and deliver parts of each of them, the most profitable, to private management.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u141	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u142	Justice to reverse privatisation processes, carried out in 25. the time of life of a government, in humming processes, with boundaries of legality for confirmation and without any transparency, culminating with the signing of contracts in acts marked by opacity, which still remain, and by the news darkness. This lack of competence resulted in the annulment of the tender for the sub-concession of the STCP and the Port Metro, giving rise to an amazing and hidden process of direct adjustment of the alleged "winners" : ALSA and Transdev. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u143	Justice and dignity in order to correct and reborn from ashes public transport companies, in particular Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon, which the Government, in the persons of the former Minister of Economics and the former Secretary of State of Transport, ordered to dismantle. This burnt land policy, executed by a liquidated administration, in the name of alleged synergies which were confirmed only for the PSD and CDS boys, created wing of degree for all and all workers who did not accept compulsive disunculation, and deliberately deteriorated the entire public service, through unjustified price increases, career cuts and, logically, blind reduction of effects in both Lisbon and Porto. Justice, finally, to ensure respect for the historic rights that the municipalities of Lisbon and Porto, as well as us, maintain in the management and development of transport systems, as well as in the various processes of articulation with the territorial ordering and the satisfaction of the interests of the populations, both in the municipality and in the metropolitan areas in which the companies are integrated. The former Government has prepared the legislative ground to enable it to design the entire operation in accordance with the privatisation objective. The former political majority produced legislation in accordance with the objective of sub-concession of private transport. Today, this new majority has the opportunity to take concrete steps to 'decouple' these same transports.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u144	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u145	I'm done now, Mr. President. The previous government imposed on companies a model of authoritarian and autistic governance in labour relations and human resources management, blocking all collective bargaining, disrespecting the interests of workers and promoting a management that looked at workers always as a burden and discomfort.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u147	This new majority is within its power to halt the process of destruction of these companies, to give dignity and respect to transport workers, as well as the autonomy and legal personality of public transport companies in both Lisbon and Porto. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u148	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subjects brought to debate are multiple, apparently similar, and all concern urban transport, mergers, restructurings and sub-concessions of transport systems. I then begin, at the end, given how little time we have for such an important issue, announcing that the PSD is against and will vote against these proposals and projects. We know that this sense of vote does not scare the House, but we, PSD are like this: few pirouettes, few cambalhots, we are a reliable party and in whom the Portuguese can trust. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] Our vote in the negative is based on three orders of reasons. First, since 2010 we had to stop and reverse a cycle of degradation and implement a genuine, coherent and ambitious transport policy, which would now be disastrous to reverse, because of the imperatives of economic rationality and in compliance with a programme of financial assistance with the troika—which we have not called and with whom we have not negotiated a plan. Secondly, we also note that we have no ideological prejudices about private initiative. We do not diabolize the private and we understand that, in contrast to their interests, it is perfectly possible to reconcile the public and the private in virtuous partnerships that are in good defense of the public interest with economic sustainability. But above all, the facts, the numbers and the history give us reason and discourage changes in direction that would lead us to the old and millionaire compensatory compensations that have so much cost our deficit, finally, to the snowball of the sector's indebtedness and to the lack of promotion and investment in public transport. It is for us unforgettable that the patriotic government that yesterday ceased to function and that we prided ourselves on supporting, operated a small revolution in the area of transport, breaking with the hole of debt, half hidden, out of the budgetary perimeter for too long, and achieving, in 2014, something that was thought impossible: operational gains in the sector, more than 50 million euros. The sub-concession of the Port Metro itself, which is so criticised here, will grant gains in the concession period of more than EUR 14 million. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ready for this debate, now and always, where they want to challenge us. But more important than the PSD's sense of vote is the PS's sense of vote, because these proposals are not all the same. in the midst of more proseic and simple things, such as the reversal of subconcession, come much deeper things. It comes the recovery of old left-wing ghosts through denial of the granting of public services to private. Does the PS follow this? Does the PS see itself in these positions? How will the PS vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u150	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u151	I will finish, Mr. President. It is time to fall the mask, we will not continue to live in Portugal in accordance with the principle « there is agreement or no agreement ». This can't go on. The PS has to say whether it is seen in this 1975 stance or seen in its roots, in its history. Is this the PS of Mário Soares or is it the PS of Vasco Gonçalves? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u152	This is a speech you will make for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u153	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time that we have this discussion, but today it is very enlightening. Or let's see. The Socialist Party is euphoric with the return of the party. What is at stake in these achievements? What the previous government did was reduce the administrations of Carris, Metro, Transtejo and Soflusa to one. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, do you know what this reduction of administration means in savings? It means EUR 1, EUR 5 million in savings. That is, less administration, more public service, more sustainability. What is the advantage of having a centralized administration, as Mr. Heitor Sousa said? Global view of the system, intermodality, interoperability. It means adaptation of supply to demand, means systemic vision, means better public service. What is strange here is that the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Green Ecology Party, suddenly, have engaged in the protection of administrations. But they're not that naive, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! What you are really protecting is the 1070 strikes that have existed over the past four years, which are a hell of a life for anyone who wants to work, and it is the Socialist Party that is giving in in credibly to the CGTP and to the interest of strikes, to maintain, of course, the status quo in public transport. That's what's at stake. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u155	It's the boys you guys put in business!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u156	Otherwise, it would be worth asking the Socialist Party why in 2008 the Socialist Party made the sub-concession of the Port Metro,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u157	... imposes this standard on Portuguese laws and now comes to say that he wants to end the sub-concession of the Port Metro. But do you know what led to that sub-concession? It has resulted in everything that you can confirm: better quality of service — see passenger satisfaction rates — and quota gain, being few carriers to gain quota, and, moreover, there is no record of strikes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u158	I should say that in front of people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u159	That's it, yes, sir. Members of the Left Block and the Socialist Party, uncomfortable and painful! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u160	On the other hand, I have seen 10 initiatives on convincing and courageous statements. Today it's all decided. But are they not putting the Commission's applications for discharge into the Bureau without a vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u161	For how many days? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u162	But now we are in a government where statements and initiatives are more than many and then, when the time comes for the vote, is cowardice coming? You have the courage to vote today. We're going to vote today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u163	Mr João Paulo Correia, of the PS, asked for the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say to the PSD and the CDS that the PS position is reflected in the draft resolutions that we have tabled in this debate. Therefore, Mr President, the Socialist Party's position is written and it has very clear proposals in the draft resolutions that we are bringing the debate here today. The CDS just talked about partying. Mr President, I do not hold back from talking to you about a party that your government was preparing and only did not happen because the Court of Auditors prevented it. I'm telling you about the contract party that the CP has established with the EMEF, the command of its government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u165	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u166	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... a EUR 354 million contract with EMEF for 10 years during the privatisation process of EMEF. And that party just didn't happen because the Court of Auditors prevented her in a May ruling this year. And you know what happened to EMEF's privatisation process? It was deserted, no private was interested in this business. Why would it be, sir? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u167	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the part of the CFP, we cannot fail to note the remarks made by the honourable Members. Members on the right, the aggressiveness and the anger that is apparent in relation to the workers of these companies and how — we were really seeing! — you have fulfilled the baffling diatrics against the struggles of the workers and the way they have spoken of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u169	Exactly! [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u170	On the other hand, it is important here to note that, surely, the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen do not travel or when they do not notice, because the amount of times public transport does not work because of strikes but because of the operational, financial and technical asphyxiation to which your government has condemned companies is much more serious and from which you never speak. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You don't talk about users, you don't talk about public service, you just think about the private interest of the economic groups that you've tried to defend. [[PCP applause.]] for our part, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to make a serious and constructive effort to present solutions and we will also be here for this debate and for this work, which will have to continue to defend companies to take concrete steps to recover the chaos companies that you have tried to create. Even when they talk about savings with the merger of companies, they try to talk about these pseudo-savings because they don't want to talk about the million-dollar increases to some higher figures that they put there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u171	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u172	They try to avoid talking about the alienation of circulating material, fleets, equipment, the disconnection of security equipment that we continue to say are fundamental. We will have to work hard on human resources, on strengthening staff, on strengthening the means and on restoring the safety standards of transport companies because you have tried to destroy everything. But you can't and won't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you won't make it! [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u173	There's no more Mrs. Member States and, therefore, we can turn to the debate on item 4 of our agenda, which is the debate on draft resolution No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the disclosure and study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in compulsory education ( The Greens ). For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution recommending the disclosure and study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in compulsory education. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, much has been said about the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is the Basic Law of the Country, to which all legal architecture and the legal and political decision-making framework must submit. Adopted on 2 April 1976, closes in itself the product of a democracy conquered by the Revolution of 25 April 1974. It is a progressive constitution, although subject to some constitutional revisions which, in the perspective of the Greens, have acquainted it with some important bases for consolidation of rights and development guarantees. in its 296 articles it deals with very relevant matters, including the principles relating to our democratic state, the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens, the organization of political power or the structure of sovereignty bodies. All issues as decisive, as has been seen, for the collective and concrete life of citizens and also for the exercise of their right to participate. It happens that, 39 years after its approval, the Constitution is still clearly unknown by many Portuguese. When it comes to ignorance, we do not speak of the fact that we are not aware of the existence of the Constitution, but of the fact that many citizens have no idea of the real content of this Basic Law. Incomprehensibly, many young people end their schooling without knowledge of the general contents of the Constitution. The knowledge of the general content of the Constitution is, in the perspective of the Greens, a decisive step in bringing Portuguese citizens to consciousness...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing to sit down; if you want to talk, I ask you to leave, please. You may continue, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think maybe a lot of the ladies. Members would not even like us to discuss here the text of the Constitution, but what we want is to broaden that knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u177	There we go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u178	We believe that it is a decisive step towards bringing the Portuguese citizens to awareness of their rights and their state, thereby leading them to consolidate respect and desire for preservation and the experience of these foundations of democracy, which is also essential for an approach to the powers and public institutions. That is why the Green Party considers that the teaching system should be the source of knowledge and the awakening of taste for the pursuit of knowledge and food the desire for participation, thus generating greater and better knowledge also about the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. This approach will go from the perspective of the Greens to the opportunity to know the contents of the Constitution. It is not, of course, intended for young Portuguese to know the Constitution, or even parts of the Constitution, of colour, but to have a comprehensive idea about the rights it confers on them and about the organization of their State. So we propose that the curricular content of the 3. the cycle of basic and secondary education integrates the study of the Constitution and which is available free of charge to all students of these degrees of education a copy of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u180	Mr Pedro Alves, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution submitted by the Greens Ecological Party, which recommends the dissemination and study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in compulsory education, is, in our view, redundant in its substance. The bench I represent does not devalue the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and, much less, the subsequent revisions it has been targeted. We, unlike the Greens Ecological Party, believe that the revisions that our Constitution has known over the past 40 years have contributed decisively to the consolidation of a more just and democratic society, rather than having amputated it « important bases of consolidation of rights and guarantees of development », as mentioned in the explanatory statement of the reasons for this initiative. What VV. Ex.as proposes in this draft resolution, in particular that the study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic integrates the curricular content of the 3. the cycle of basic and secondary education, in practice, already happens. If, in fact, young people did not have any contact with the Basic Law of the Country, particularly through the curricula, steps should be taken to address this gap. But that is not what shows us the reality, particularly when we look at the programmes and goals of different disciplines, of several years and cycles of teaching. Otherwise, just a few examples. in the 2nd History and Geography program. the basic education cycle addresses the area « 25 April and the construction of democracy », more specifically « the Constitution of 1976 and the restoration of democracy », seeking through this domain to achieve goals such as « to know and understand the consequences of 25 April 1974 on the level of democratization of the regime and decolonization ; recognize the end of the dictatorship and the beginning of the construction of democracy in the Programme of the Armed Forces; refer to the 1975 elections as a fundamental framework for the construction of the democratic regime; and recognize in the 1976 Constitution the consecration of fundamental rights and freedoms ». Moving on to 3. the cycle of basic education, in the history programme, with the domain « Portugal : from authoritarianism to democracy », more specifically « The perpetuation of authoritarianism and the fight against the regime; democratic Portugal », aims to achieve goals such as « Know and understand the Portuguese democratic revolution; and characterize the organization of democratic society from the constitution of 1976 ». Finally, at the level of secondary education, in the history programme A, of 12. the year, and History B, 11. the year deals with the themes: « From the Revolution to the stabilization of democracy; the constitutional option of 1976; the constitutional revision of 1982 and the functioning of democratic institutions ». It seems therefore clear that the study of the Constitution is already carried out in a cross-sectional manner at various levels of teaching, thus falling to the ground the argument underlying this initiative. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u182	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that at 12 noon, there will be votes, and then you will be voting. Members who have not yet been able to make the electronic register should do their best to address the plenary support services. Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President, this is my first intervention in this House, I would like to welcome and, in itself, all the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to welcome and wish the best of the 21st Government of the Republic, which stems from the constitutional legitimacy and incurs the support given by the new parliamentary framework. The Green Party deserves to be welcomed by the draft resolution that brings us here today. With your favourable vote, we will open the way for young Portuguese to meet the practice of one more right: the right to comprehensive knowledge of the constitutional text. And if we agree with the Latin concept that "knowledge is power", we recognise that we are just discussing the transfer of more power, more training for the young student and Portuguese citizen. It is the school space that is indicated so that you have first contact with our Basic Law, by belonging but necessarily committed to the logic of forming conscious citizens and not just future qualified professionals, technicians, academics or scientists. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our present Constitution is not an archaic heritage, a static fact inscribed on a symbolic commemorative date, nor is it merely a good that has been left to us by the illustrious constituents of 1975, or a reflection of the exclusive will of the Portuguese awakened for freedom by the April Revolution, which, in fact, we assume and much in pride. The Constitution is therefore not a tradition that is respected, with which we are compelled to live by antiquity or courtesy. It is first the expression of the will of the sovereign people, that all do and must do and that everyone must do, because it defines a framework of rights and duties equal to all citizens. The Constitution is a living document in force. It has been revised successively until today, modernized and adapted, in the face of the changes in the country, such as our integration into European citizenship. The 1976 Constitution, the result of its revisions, is the 2015 Constitution. And the Constitution of 2015 is the constitutional text that governs our entire democratic life and sets fundamental values and principles to our political, social, economic and judicial organization. As such, it should be presented to new generations in compulsory school curricula and not only in the subjects of history, geography or law. The young student who knows the historical context of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic will undoubtedly have a better understanding of the ideological heritage of our Basic Law. But this historical knowledge is not enough for the young citizen to make the Constitution an instrument at the service of his own citizenship and his understanding of individual and collective interests, present and future. If we want to encourage full and participatory citizens to be trained in our compulsory education, we must embrace the opportunity of this proposal, embedded in the most basic logic of common sense and in promoting the values of democratic culture and civic progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u184	Thank you very much, on behalf of the Bureau, for your votes, which we have paid. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution that the Green Party brings us here today is an accurate copy of the draft resolution presented in the previous Parliament in 2013, not having our position, in substance or in form, suffered any change. in this draft resolution two recommendations are presented: first, the study and second, the disclosure of the Constitution of the Republic in the third cycle and in secondary education. As for the first one, Mr. President and Mr. Members, as has already been mentioned, the knowledge of the Constitution is already — and well — integrated into the teaching system, especially in the curriculum of several disciplines, of which I quote only a few, since the list since 3. the year at 12. the year is too long for this intervention. in the discipline of History and Geography of Portugal of 6. the year can be read the objective of « Knowing and understanding the Liberal Revolution of 1820 », with the descriptors 4 and 5, respectively : « Referring to the holding of elections for the Constitutional Courts, whose aim was the elaboration of a Constitution » and « Recognizing the Constitution as the Basic Law of a State ». Not yet 6. the year can be read the objective of « To know and understand the consequences of 25 April 1974 on the level of democratization of the regime and decolonization », as described in paragraph 3 : « to recognize in the Constitution of 1976 the consecration of fundamental rights and freedoms ». in the discipline of History of 9. the year, another example, can be read the objective of « Knowing and understanding the Portuguese Democratic Revolution », with descriptor No 5: « Characterizing the organization of democratic society from the 1976 Constitution ». Moreover, in the context of its autonomy and with regard to education for citizenship, schools are called upon to develop projects and activities that contribute to the personal and social training of students, in which the study of the Constitution has particular relevance. So this recommendation, in our view, is already fully satisfied today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u186	As for the second, Mr. President and Mr. Members, on the disclosure of the Constitution, are also safeguarded by the fact that, by means of minimums, from any computer, including the school or home library, it is possible to access the sites of the Assembly of the Republic or the National Council of Education and from then on to consult the Constitution. Moreover, this is what I did from the website of the Assembly of the Republic. Finally, with the following question, using Article 43. the Constitution in its paragraphs 1 and 2 can read: « 1 ) The freedom to learn and teach is guaranteed; 2 ) The State cannot program education and culture according to any philosophical, aesthetic, political, ideological or religious guidelines. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it will not be that the concerns of your party are already being alarmed and that, taking them further, it will collide with Article 43 ( 2 ). precisely this Basic Law? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u187	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 40 years of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic are already celebrated in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u189	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u190	She is the Basic Law of the Country, of the State, the legal guarantor of democracy conquered in the April Revolution. It is also the guarantor of social rights, such as access to a national health system, a public school, social security. Debating the Constitution today is to breathe democracy, it is a awareness of its own rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u192	And it is precisely to breathe democracy that the school, the students, the teachers need today, after they have attended a government that, over the past four years, wanted to impose a project of social retrogression in rights, in the social state, which shocked exactly with the Constitution. And that is where the discomfort with the right comes, when one talks about covering the public school with more discussion about the Constitution. It's a kind of hive that PSD and CDS-PP feel, whenever we talk in the Constitution. But I also leave you with the invitation: they have the humility to approve this draft resolution, whether it is for the honourable Members themselves. Right-wing Members have the opportunity to get to know and defend the Constitution, because they haven't been able to do so in the last four years. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is not necessary to go far enough to find one of the examples of contempt for the Basic Law of the Republic which materializes the right. It was exactly in education with the PACC ( Knowledge and Capabilities Assessment Test ), outraged evidence that the Constitutional Court itself found unconstitutional. But it is today, and from October 4th, that we have a new majority in this House : it is the arc of the Constitution. And today it is necessary to close the book of impoverishment and open the window of democracy and the discussion of the social rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And that is exactly why we support the Greens draft resolution, which brings us here more freedom, more coverage, more discussion, more knowledge and more awareness for students and children in our country. It is never late, nor is it too much more democracy in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Diogo Leon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u193	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party for the presentation of this draft resolution, mainly because, after the last four years of a government that has offended and despised the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and democracy, its appreciation is even more urgent. The CDS now even said that education for citizenship could serve—in fact, it already serves—as a space for learning, forgetting that it was precisely the PSD/CDS government that ended education for citizenship.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u195	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u196	In fact, PSD and CDS are precisely the parliamentary groups that rejected this draft resolution that had already been presented in this House in the past Parliament — and it is natural. It is natural that disclosure of rights does not please anyone who wants to destroy them. It is natural that the disclosure and study of the result of 48 years of resistance and struggle against fascism and the impetuous popular movement that resulted from April 25 are uncomfortable for those who, like the last government, have wanted to continue to make Portugal return to this past. To prevent contact with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is an objective—in fact, confessed even by Mr. Fernando Negrão, at the time of the presentation of such draft resolution in the past legislation—of those who wish to make a draft draft constitutional law of the Republic, in the most diverse planes: economic, social, political and cultural. It is natural for those who wish to deny the right to housing, to hide that the Basic Law of the Country is on the side of those who have no home. But that didn't suit the banks. It is natural for those who want to close classes in the public to open them in private with State funding to ignore that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic provides for a network of public educational establishments that respond to all needs of the country. It is natural that those who want to collect more and more props want to hide the young people that the Basic Law says education is free of charge. But this did not work out to the private groups of education. It is natural that those who deny stable work and with rights to young people want to hide that the Constitution makes this layer of the population, youth, enjoy special protection at work. But that didn't work out any of the multinationals who hire on time and pay for misery. It is natural that those who want to fully commercialize culture and transform it into entertainment, cutting off the support for creation, hide that the Constitution says that the State must ensure that everyone has the right to cultural creation and enjoyment. But that didn't suit the organizers of commercial events or those who profit from our dirty... It is natural for those who defend monopolies to hide that the Basic Law prohibits the existence of monopolies. But that didn't suit the monopolies. It is natural that those who intend to surrender national sovereignty to foreign countries and economic and financial groups want to hide that the Constitution asserts that sovereignty resides in the people. Ah, but that didn't suit the German and French banks... The formation of boys and girls aware of their rights and of the processes that led to the consecration of these rights in the constitutional text can be an important step in the deepening of the democratic project that the Constitution of April contains and affirms, despite the successive changes introduced by the PS, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u198	The formation of the individual's integral culture, as the CFP advocates it, also implies its formation in the social and political aspects, towards the deepening of democracy. It is clear to us that only those who know their rights can defend them and exercise them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u199	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly those of the PSD and the CDS-PP for the intervention they have made, I want to assure you that many students leave high school without generally knowing about it and the foundations of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic are teachers who guarantee it. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, coming down to the ground and knowing the concrete ground is fundamental. And that's why it makes all the sense the project that The Greens present today. Science, technology and arts courses in secondary education do not touch the subject of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u201	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u202	And the courses of languages and humanity and socio-economic sciences optionally touch this matter. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, students do not all have access to this teaching and, from the perspective of the Greens, it is essential that young Portuguese people, for the exercise of their rights and for the knowledge of public bodies and powers, have access to this knowledge that the Greens are proposing today. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u203	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence of the support services together so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 204 presences, to which 9 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Deputies António Ventura, Miguel Morgado and Teresa Leal Coelho, of the PSD, Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, Carlos César, Diogo León, João Paulo Correia and João Torres, of the PS, and Pedro Soares, of the BE, performing 213 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, first of all, we have to vote on vote No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sentence and repudiation by the terrorist attack in Tunis ( PSD and CDS-PP ). I wanted to start by greeting Mrs. Tunisian Ambassador and the Members. Ambassadors from various Arab countries present in the Tribune for the Diplomatic Corps. To read the vote, Mr.Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 6 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Condemnation and repudiation of the terrorist attack in Tunis ( PSD and CDS-PP ) is as follows : « A few days after the tragedy of terrorist attacks in Paris at the beginning of November at the service of the terrorist organization Daesh, Islamic jihadism once again showed the totalitarian nature of its methods. this time, the chosen target was the Tunisian presidential guard, through resorting to a suicide attack, who fatally victimized 13 elements of this security service and injured more than 20 others. Terrorism has found in Tunisia a stage for violent extremist and radical demonstrations. for the third time this year, Daesh again claimed the authorship of the attacks in Tunisian territory. The attempt to expand this terrorist organization for the southern vicinity of Europe, and more specifically for Tunisia, is revealing not only its capacity for intervention and mobilization as its intention to undermine the progress that the Tunisian people have made in an orderly search for a democratic, stable and prosperous country. Of all the countries of the Arab Spring uprisings, Tunisia is the unique case of success in the process of transition to democracy. Against the expectations of many, the Tunisian people did not give in to the armed actions of certain extremist radical groups, which systematically resort to violence and terror to influence their course. His example has aroused the solidarity of the Portuguese and the entire international community. jihadist extremism and radicalism continue to pose a pressing and disruptive threat to the fundamental values of civilization. As such, they demand firm and concerted responses from the international community as they deserve their most vehement rejection and condemnation. Portugal is a friendly country. And in this regard it has been struggling to keep Tunisia on the list of international political priorities as well as within the European Union. And so it has reiterated the need to review and strengthen, especially in the current security context, support for the so-called southern neighbourhood. in this context, the Assembly of the Republic strongly expresses its condemnation of the attacks committed by the militant jihadists, presumably linked to Daesh, which took place last November 24 in Tunis, expressing to the Tunisian authorities and the families of the victims their most sincere condolences and their solidarity with the wounded and reaffirming not only the importance of the continued coordination of the European Union's efforts in the determined fight against jihadist terrorism and in cooperation with the international partners of North Africa, in particular with Tunisia, to respond effectively to the terrorist threat'.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 6 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemnation and repudiation of the terrorist attack in Tunis ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u206	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u207	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u208	Mr President, to inform the House that we are going to make a written statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u209	Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Of condemnation and regret for the attack in Tunes ( PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, vote No 9 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Condemnation and regret over the terrorist attack in Tunis ( PCP ) is as follows: « In the face of the bombing in Tunis last November 24, of which resulted dozens of victims, recalling the recent attacks in Tunisia, the Bardo Museum in March, and next to a hotel in June; Noting that these crimes are associated with increased instability and insecurity in this region, as a result of destabilization and even destruction of sovereign states, interference and war, with their destruction and destruction; Stressing that the fight against terrorist groups that haunt the populations of North African and Middle East countries calls for the end of their support rather than actions against the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of those States; Stressing the importance of a policy of decommissioning and peace in international relations and respect for international law; The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 27 November, strongly condemns this attack, expresses its dismay and feelings of concern to the victims and their families, expresses its solidarity to the Tunisian people and considers that the response to terrorism goes through the fight against its deepest causes — political, economic and social — and the defence and affirmation of the values of freedom, democracy, sovereignty and national independence and respect for international law."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u212	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u213	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u214	Mr President, it is to announce that on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u215	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I see that you also ask for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u216	Yes, Mr President, we will also present a written statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u217	We will now vote on the draft resolution No 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — First amendment to deliberations No 11 - PL / 2015 of 12 November fixing the list and composition of standing parliamentary committees ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — National railway plan ( The Greens ), the initial text of which was replaced by the proposing party. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national rail plan ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 43 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of revenue provided for in the 2015 State budget ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We are now going to vote on a request by the PS, on a bass basis to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a vote, for a further assessment, for a period of 20 days, of Bill No 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of IRS ( PS ) overtax. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma also falls to 5. the Commission. We shall vote for another application by the PS, on a bass basis to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, for a further assessment, for a period of 20 days, of Bill No 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in the Public Administration ( PS ) and lowering the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without voting for the same period of time of Bill No 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Bill No. 34 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) down to 10. the Commission and draft law No 35 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 39 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Establishs the mechanisms for temporary remuneration reductions and the conditions for their reversal, making the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2014 of 12 September ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application of the extraordinary solidarity contribution during 2016 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 41 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application in 2016 of tax matters contained in the law which approved the State budget for 2015 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue a comprehensive and integrated administrative modernization policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Innovation in the public sector ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u218	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u219	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u220	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u221	How many will follow!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u222	It is registered, Mr. João Oliveira. Mrs. Members, we will vote on a request submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Health Commission without a vote, for a further assessment, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on the request submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Health Commission, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No. 36 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted drug procreation ( LDCs) and regulates access to replacement pregnancy by making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also voted on the application submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Health Commission, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No. 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures equal rights in access to assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( PAN). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote of the application, submitted by The Greens, requesting the discharge to the Health Commission without a 90-day vote of Bill No 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the eligibility conditions and the whole of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] These four diplomas are down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Members, the general vote of Bill No 37 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Elimination of national examinations of 1. the basic education cycle ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Paulo Portas, beating hands at the end of the bench.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. Then we will generally vote on Bill No. 44 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates final evidence of 1. the basic education cycle ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma also falls to 8.The Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on draft resolution No 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a social development programme ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote for an application submitted by the PCP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a vote, for a period of 30 days, of Bill No 25 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of direct adjustment and of the process of « sub-concession » to the private of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ) and of Bill No 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the public public public transport service of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, and of the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u223	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u224	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u225	Mr President, it is to tell the Bureau and the House that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on a request by the PS to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation and Public Works, without a 20-day vote of draft resolution No 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the annulment of the sub-concession of the transport systems of the Lisbon Railway Company, SA ( Carris, SA ) and the Lisbon Metropolitan, EP ( ML, EP ) ( PS ) and draft resolution No 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal and reversal of the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA and the Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on a request by the Greens for a discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a 20-day vote on draft resolution No 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the public management of the companies STCP and Metro do Porto ( Os Verdes) and draft resolution No 17 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — On the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the transport systems of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on another request, submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without voting, for a period of 20 days, of Bill No 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the basis for the concession of the light metro system of Porto and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA(BE), of Bill No 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service by making the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June and repealing Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, determining the nullity of the acts in the meantime practised in violation of this diploma ( BE) of Bill No 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the cancellation and reversal of the sub-concession process of STCP and amends the statutes of STCP, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July ( BE) and Bill No 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintains the legal personality and autonomous existence of the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE, of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, da Transtejo, Transportes do Tejo, SA, e da Soflusa - Sociedade Fluvial de Transports, SA ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. Finally, we shall vote on draft resolution No 9 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the disclosure and study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in compulsory education ( The Greens ), the initial text of which was replaced by the author of the initiative. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Mrs. Members, let us move on to the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No. 38 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences (PACC) ( BE) and draft law No 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sets out the requirements for access to the teaching profession and ensures the annulment of the effects of the skills and knowledge assessment test ( CFP ). As I am now going to a Leader's Conference, I wish all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, good weekend. I therefore ask Vice-President Jorge Lacão to replace me. [[At the moment, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u227	To present Bill No 38 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, finally, justice will be done to thousands of teachers and teachers in this country. The CAPC, to such evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills, which was already wounded by death, will finally die. The CAPC had no legitimacy, being also challenged and criticized by various associations and teachers' entities, by school leaders, by trade unions federations, by the Ombudsman, by the Coimbra Administrative and Prosecutor's Court itself and even by the Constitutional Court, who declared this evidence unconstitutional. But the PSD government / CDS and Nuno Crato feared maintaining the test. The CAPC is no longer a discriminatory evidence, the sole purpose of which is to insert the new restriction mechanism into access to the teaching profession. The intention of Nuno Crato and his government was to humiliate teachers and to cause more unemployment within the teaching class. That's what the right-wing government did. Teachers with many years of teaching, professional, many graduates with Doctors and Masters walked from school to school, walked with the back suitcase, walked from city to city. In fact, it was an authentic arrogance, an incompetence, an evil on the part of the PSD government / CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u229	Mr. João Vasconcelos, I apologize for interrupting you, but I ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please create the conditions in the Chamber so that you can be heard. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u230	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, it was indeed a genuine arrogance, an incompetence, an evil on the part of the PSD/CDS government the way the evidence was marked, in secret and in haste, with fear of the teachers' struggle, with directors and even officials watching the teachers themselves. PACK has always been illegal. The Basic Law of the Education System does not mention anywhere that it was necessary to carry out the evidence and Parliament itself never gave a legislative authorization. But look at the cluster of former Minister Nuno Crato and PSD and CDS: even after the unconstitutionality of the test was declared, the former minister feared to maintain the test on 18 December. Incompetence, insensitivity, arrogance, evilness and illegality, this was the brand image, was the genetic brand of the former Government of the PSD and the CDS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u231	And now where is the responsibility of former Minister Nuno Crato, of Passos Coelho, of Paulo Portas, of PS and CDS-PP? Thousands of teachers were excluded from the teaching system, lost their jobs, lost their hours of service, spent their money to sign up for the test, and many even got sick. Former Minister Nuno Crato and Passos Coelho will return everything that they took to the teachers: time spent, wages, days of service, entry into the new teaching career, etc. Is that what you're talking about? All those who have been penalized must follow the appropriate ways to be compensated for the damage. With this bill, the PACC will definitely be dead and buried. As all the struggles against the CAPC were worth and also contributed to the defeat of the previous majority, whose results culminated on October 4th last. We have a new majority. It is the principle of a new initiative, it is the principle of justice. In fact, justice was finally done for these teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u232	You have the word, to present Bill No. 46 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2006 the CFP has been warning the potential consequences of the need to introduce proof of access to teaching career in the Career Statute, which was then introduced by the Government of the Socialist Party during the mandate of Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, when he was in front of the Ministry. Since then, the CFP had warned, even for the costs that this evidence could produce in the lives of teachers, of the destabilization that could be produced in schools and that, although it has not been regulated and applied during the Government of the Socialist Party — in fact, it has not been regulated or applied in any of the Governments of the Socialist Party — it has been applied and regulated, in the worst way, by the PSD and the CDS-PP, proving by its application precisely the warnings that the CFP has been making since the introduction of the proof in the Statute of the Teaching Career. In all the calls for parliamentary appreciation of this Statute, which took place in this Assembly of the Republic, the CFP proposed the removal of this article on proof of career access because it considered it not only a way of concealing the spread of unemployment that the policies of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, over those years, were causing in public school, as it was even more an instrument, as it proved itself to be — the humiliation and upheaval of teachers, especially the hired teachers who are precisely those who suffer the costs of instability policy, the policy of hiring to the taste of directors, the policy of the so-called'self-government of schools in recruitment'. Those who suffer most of these costs are precisely those who were most affected by the proof of access and, in fact, the declaration of unconstitutionality showed a set of warnings that the CFP was coming and the fairness of the proposals that the CFP was presenting. However, the CFP does not limit itself to abrogating the evidence and the decrees which regulate it. The PCP establishes in the bill that today presents the need and the obligation to compensate all teachers who have been harmed by unconstitutional evidence. It is not permissible for a single person who has been unemployed by application of evidence that is unconstitutional and that has been declared unconstitutional to be compensated for the damage and damage caused by the PSD and CDS in their lives. There is nothing left to pay to a teacher who has been unemployed because the PSD and the CDS, apart from the fundamental law of the country, did not allow that person to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u235	Therefore, the length of service, wages and other emerging costs of the unemployment situation should be considered in terms of compensation. And also, more than revocation, it is absolutely essential that it be placed as the only requirement for access to the teaching profession that is contained in the Basic Law of the Educational System. The CFP will not be satisfied with the repeal of this access test regulation so that, after all, another one is done better technically. The CFP considers that only the consideration of the Basic Law of the Education System and therefore the higher education and professionalization are the requirements necessary for teaching. Are there problems in higher education? Let's solve them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u236	Let's do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u237	Are there quality problems in higher education for teaching? All right! So, let's solve them in schools, it's not punishing teachers. It is not condemning teachers to unemployment that problems will be solved in schools and higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u238	Exactly! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u239	We welcome, lastly — but not least in importance — the struggle of teachers, especially the teachers hired and their trade union structures which, almost over the last 10 years, have been working against this test, which has also come to be a fundamental condition for the declaration of unconstitutionality of the same, and certainly so that Parliament can be on the side of those who work and not on the side of other interests that also profit from the dismantling of public school. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u240	For an intervention, Mr. João Torres of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This House is discussing today the revocation of the evidence of teacher knowledge and skills assessment. This proof, with the constitutional biases of the regulations and regulations that supported it, was a serious instability factor for our teaching system, particularly for teachers. Today, more than ever, it is important to appreciate the role of teachers and respect their irreplaceable function of conveying knowledge to new generations of Portuguese. in the Socialist Party, in a recent past, we assume without sophistication the need to suspend this test and rethink the evaluation model as a whole, listening to all and involving all in this process of higher relevance. Only because of the long-term Government's stubbornness did we start this school year with doubts as to the existence of this evidence, creating totally unnecessary entropies for the proper functioning of educational institutions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential that the Minister of Education and the Government establish a new strategy for these areas, capable of unequivocally returning peace and trust to schools and all school community actors. And, let's be clear, a school that lives permanently in 'the state of the place' does not serve the greatest purpose of forming citizens. Mr President, after the Scientific Council of the Institute of Educational Assessment, after the Provedoria de Justice, after several courts of this country have given their opinion on this evidence, the Constitutional Court itself pronounced itself unconstitutional. The vote of the Socialist Party will also be unequivocal, forming a majority that will revoke the test to teachers in this House, which has subjected thousands of teachers in this country to an absolutely unacceptable humiliation. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the near term of the major managements to which teachers have been subject in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, Mr President, the Socialist Party, but not your policy, Mr Duarte Marques, reaffirms in this House its commitment to dialogue with educational agents,... [[PSD protests.]] ... compromise of dialogue that meets us all to transform into an unequivocal appreciation of teaching exercise, placing final points in the precarious process to which education, in general, and teachers, in particular, have been irremediably subject. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education also needs a new time in our country which is Portugal. That time came yesterday and we will assume our full responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u242	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives we are now discussing on the evidence of the assessment of knowledge and skills are no longer a step backwards in relation to the quality and requirement why our teaching system should be based. I see, with perplexity, a snouted PS. Locked between the PCP and the Left Block. Surrounded by the lack of memory of those who do not remember that it instituted the test in 2007.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u244	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u245	I remember: this evidence was created by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u246	Truth or lie?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u247	I remember words written in the office of Minister Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u248	That's called a pirouette!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u249	It's a cobbler!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u250	The Socialist Party then said that the evidence constituted a form of guarantee of equity for all those who entered the teaching career, a form of guarantee of quality of the teaching system, a form of guarantee of transparency and adequacy to the characteristics of the labour market. This was said by the Socialist Party by the hand of Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u251	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u252	Ohh...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u253	I would like to say that this evidence is not, nor has it ever meant to be, an absolute method of evaluation to measure the quality of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u254	Quality? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u255	It is not, nor has it ever meant to be, an attack on the teaching class, is a fundamental part of a set of measures to enhance and progressively improve the quality of teaching, which is the central component of the education system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u256	The people don't forget that the evidence is the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u257	And I ask the ladies. Members: will it be acceptable for teachers who have made their school journey by reprobing Portuguese or Mathematics to teach in public school? Is it legitimate for the unions with which you usually agree to say that the evidence is too easy, that it is too simple and that they then drop one third of the teachers?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u258	What? Oh, my God! You've never been to a chair in college? Did you do the access test? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u259	Is it good that teachers who lead this test too easily and who make mistakes teach our children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u260	You've never been in a chair? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it is very difficult to listen and, above all, it is very difficult to listen to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u262	It doesn't cost anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u263	Finally, on an important point which has been brought here to debate — unconstitutionality — I would like to say that this argument is not in our hands. And we are not bound by this: because it is not the substance of the evidence that is at issue but, yes, a solution that has been constitutionally enshrined by a previous government other than that of the PSD/CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u264	Mr Abel Baptista, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Staff Regulations of the Teaching Career were approved at the Council of Ministers of November 2006 and it is envisaged, and I quote: 'They are general requirements for admission to the competition to obtain approval in evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences, in the case of invitation to tender for entry. » I am quoting a diploma approved in a Government of the Socialist Party in which the current Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, was present in the Council of Ministers. The Left Block proposes a simple, surgical and clear change, so clearly simple that it presents no alternative. Delete to be removed. But in this matter, what side of the wall is the Socialist Party on? Is the Socialist Party on the side of the evidence it created in 2006, which reaffirmed in 2009 and 2010 or moved to the other side of the wall? It is Peter's denial, only on the contrary. Here the Biblical figure works the opposite for the Socialist Party. It's ironic that the PS is the creator of the creature and the creator to kill the creature. The Constitutional Court declares that the diploma that creates the evidence of assessment of knowledge and capacities ill of an unconstitutional organic, error committed by the Socialist Party, and that the decree-law was approved without legislative authorization of the Assembly of the Republic. But the Constitutional Court's judgment considered materially in accordance with the Constitution the PACC for candidates for teachers, and I quote parts: « The authorization for teaching does not mean the acquisition of a right to enter the teaching career(...). However, one thing is ‘ being able to be a teacher ’ to another relative but different is ‘ having the right to be a teacher. ’ The qualifications referred to in Article 34. the, paragraph 1 of the Basic Law of the Education System—and which, as mentioned above, correspond only to the initial training of teachers—are only a necessary condition for teaching (in any school, public or private) ; not a sufficient condition(...) ». For this reason it is also true for the Members of the Communist Party that the Constitution must be fulfilled in all its aspects and the Constitutional Court, in this respect, says that the evidence is being fulfilled. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u266	And I will continue to quote the judgment: « Thus, the qualification or training of teachers is a matter that must be within the framework of the Basic Law of the Education System, but the same, in itself, cannot ensure entry into the teaching career nor exclude the forecast of instruments to prove the fitness for career at any given time(...). It is justified that the legislator establishes requirements of merit, fitness and capacity of the interested parties, seeking to choose the best for the tasks to be performed(...) ». Who says it is not the CDS, it is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court also concludes, and I quote: "The evidence in question aims to raise the level of requirement in terms of skills and knowledge relating to those who wish to teach in the above-mentioned public system. The assessment of skills and knowledge is concerned in order to determine whether they are sufficient to ensure the quality of education at a certain level rather than training." The argument that it is sufficient for higher education to be able to give lessons and that it is a mistrust in the teacher training system is at least childish. The reality is that the greatest care should be taken in the training and selection of candidates for teachers, and this should be done at various levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u268	I will finish, Mr. President. To say it's a mistrust is childish! Should medical candidates take a test even after graduation be suspicious of universities? The same is true of lawyers? in reality, the arguments for the end of the test are corporate arguments that place the education of young people in second place. on our part, education exists to train children and young people in the best conditions and to create informed, critical and responsible citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u269	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u270	The Socialist Party instituted the test for teachers, the PSD and the CDS continued their implementation. We have here an example of continuity in educational action. How can we speak seriously about politics in the face of such a situation as the Socialist Party announced here today? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u271	For a second intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proof that this evidence needed was the last administrative act of the Government on the right, which was to suspend the evidence. And you suspended her because you know that she is, and always was, a mess in a set of craps with which the government tied up the education and tied up the teachers' work. A dangerous joke, because it excludes, because it humiliates and because it only served to mask unemployment numbers among teachers in this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u273	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u274	Finally, I meant that this evidence has always been bad. But, fortunately, times change and we stopped saying that this test is bad to say: this test was already! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-27.u275	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, having no further inscriptions, the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein. 38 and 46 / XIII ( 1 ) is closed. ( a ) and with it completed today's work. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am just waiting for the information coming from the Conference of Leaders on the agenda next week. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members of the next plenary session include the presentation and debate of the XXI Constitutional Government Programme, which is scheduled for Wednesday, 2 December, at 3 p.m., continuing the debate on Thursday, 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
