ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin our agenda, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to do the favor of giving us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No. 276 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a regional tax system ( ALRAM ) ; projects of lein.o 752 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ), 753 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil affiliation and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ), 754 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens) and 755 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted drug procreation ( LDCs ), by the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July, as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 130 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December approving the process of indirect reprivatization of the capital of TAP, Portuguese Air Transport, SA ( PS ) ; and draft resolutions No 1217 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure that consumers have adequate information on the social energy tariff and exceptional social support to the energy consumer ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1218 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the process of sub-concession of the Viana do Castelo Shipyards and their reintegration into the business sector of the State as well as the defence of jobs ( PCP ) and 1219 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Return of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo to the public sector ( The Greens). The Bureau also delivered a message from Mr. President of the Republic concerning the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 295 / XII.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u3	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The first item on the agenda consists in reading the message of the President of the Republic on the promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 295 / XII, which approves the Legal Regime of the Regional Referendum in the Autonomous Region of Azores. Mrs. Members, the message of the President of the Republic is as follows: « Having promulgated Decree No. 295 / XII of the Assembly of the Republic, which approves the Legal Regime of the Regional Referendum in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, I understood to address that Assembly in the use of the faculty provided for in Article 133 ( d ). the Constitution, the following message: 1 — The Legal Regime of the Regional Referendum in the Autonomous Region of the Azores has a specific constitutional consecration, and the constitutional regime of the national referendum also applies to it with the necessary adaptations. 2 — Not by chance, the regime now promulgated finds broad points of contact with the existing legal regime for the national referendum. 3 — One of these aspects, in accordance with constitutional determination, is the mandatory submission of the proposal for a referendum by the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court for the preventive supervision of constitutionality and legality. 4 — However, in Article 22. the regime provides that within two days of the date of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic shall communicate it to the President of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which shall transmit it to the parliamentary groups and representations, to the Regional Government and, where appropriate, to the representatives of the group of citizens subscribing to the popular initiative. 5 — The imposition by ordinary law of the President of the Republic of a period of operation, for such a short period, must be justified only for substantial reasons. It does not appear to be the case with the standard under consideration which, in addition to dealing with issues of file, does not add any useful effect to the act practiced. 6 — Indeed, without prejudice to the immediate duty to communicate the decision of the Constitutional Court imposing on its President the President of the Republic, as provided for in Article 27. that of the Regime, the same provision shall determine its dispatch for publication. 7 — Now, in accordance with Article 119. that of the Constitution, the decisions of the Constitutional Court are subject to compulsory publication in the Journal of the Republic, without which they have no legal effectiveness. 8 — In addition, in accordance with Article 28. the same Regime, the ‘President of the Republic shall decide on the convening of the referendum within 20 days of the publication of the decision of the Constitutional Court to verify the proposed constitutionality and legality’. 9 — The immediate notification of the decision of the Constitutional Court to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores does not appear to add any useful effect: not only is its effectiveness conditional upon publication as, in the case of a decision of non-constitutionality, the constitutional and legal decision area assigned to the President of the Republic should still be preserved. 10 — Under a decision of unconstitutionality or illegality in accordance with Article 23. the President of the Republic shall return the proposal for a referendum to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. However, it does not appear that this must happen within two days, nor does the law impose it — which, moreover, creates a contradiction between the obligation to communicate the decision and the duty to repay the proposal, depending on the publication of the Constitutional Court's decision in the official newspaper. 11 — In the case of a file without visible utility, a very short-term disproportionate imposition by ordinary law on the President of the Republic and can generate normative contradictions, it is believed that this solution should be thought of by the honourable Members. 12 — Finally, it is suggested that Article 31 (2) should be drafted. the part where ‘citizens of other countries’ are referred to is more clearly harmonized with the provisions of Article 15. the Constitution and Article 38. the legal regime of the National Referendum, implementing its application to citizens of Portuguese-speaking countries. Having decided to promulgate this diploma because it is an express intention of the legislator, based on a broad consensus and whose opportunity is not contested, I believe, in any event, that the points in question should be repondated by the honourable Members, thereby eliminating the doubts or misconceptions that may persist in this matter." Mrs. Members, having completed the reading of Mr President of the Republic's message, we move on to the second point of our agenda, which is that of the general assessment of Bill No 275 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Approves the new Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room. I need you to take your seats, so that there are conditions for us to start the debate. To submit the bill, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the fundamental axes of the various reforms that have been implemented in the last three and a half years by this government is based on the sustainability of the national road sector, with better service to be provided to the citizens. In order to achieve this objective, articulatedly, various reforms have been implemented in areas other than this sector, such as, in the perspective of savings, the renegotiation of public-private partnership contracts; in the public investment perspective, through the careful evaluation of investment projects, involving civil society, within the framework of the Working Group on Higher Value Added Infrastructures; in the approval of the strategic plan 2015 - 2020 and the proximity plan 2015 - 2019; in the context of the reorganization and strengthening of our institutions, through the creation of the Authority for Mobility and Transport and fusion, currently underway, between the REFER and the Estradas de Portugal; and, in the legislative plan, through the creation of a regulatory model for this sector, more efficient and balanced. It is therefore in this reformist context that the proposed law is now under discussion and that it has to establish the new legal regime applicable to the Statute which the President has described. The Statute has so far been in force for more than 60 years, being a set of outdated rules that do not mirror the intense economic, social and urban development verified in Portugal. The Government therefore understood that it was the right time to move forward to this review of the Statute, in particular taking into account the contributions of the Working Group, which it had with representatives of the IMT, the Stradas de Portugal, the National Association of Municipalities and the Government itself. I would therefore like to highlight the two fundamental principles underlying this new Statute: to safeguard the public road use of our roads and to create conditions for better private use of the public domain of roads as a real asset, provided that the safety conditions of its users are safeguarded. There are several subjects dealt with and which look at these two principles. In this way, it is intended to update, systematize and reorganize in a single diploma subject matter so far dispersed in various legislation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Finally, I would like to call for the next debate in this House to be made so as to be able to welcome this start of discussion and to collect all the contributions that, constructively, I am sure! — Parliamentary groups can offer the debate, since it is a structuring diploma in a sector that is also structuring and, we believe, will be an important tool in the near future that will help us to achieve a better and more efficient management of our entire national road network. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u5	We are waiting in the Bureau for the registrations of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] The Bureau expects the parliamentary groups, if they so understand, to include their speakers. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is still waiting. A debate is not a race, but there is a reasonable time for parliamentary groups to register. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u6	Madam President, may I use the floor for an intervention?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u7	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : One of the most important structural factors for a harmonious territorial planning policy is, of course, the way in which the national road network is organised. This diploma of the new Statute of the National Roads has been established many of the rules of organisation, management and, above all, competences of what is in the public road domain and of the goods that integrate it or not, in addition to the national infrastructure and its own areas. Who? Do what? How so? It's as simple as this. The rapid developments in the organisation of Portuguese society in general and in the sector of road accessibility in particular should be accompanied, where possible, by the adequacy of the management instruments available to the road administration. It is therefore pleased that we verify the clarification of areas of competence between Estradas de Portugal, IMT, AMT, as well as administrative entities such as municipalities. More than 60 years have passed since the publication of the first Statute of the National Roads, with seven changes in the environment, 15 diplomas dispersed from competences in this area, which calls for this updating of rules on the use, protection, security, management, exploitation and conservation of the National Roads Network. The complexity of operations on a national road and the sharing of these experiences between the various entities is of the utmost importance and the presentation of this diploma by the Government is of the greatest opportunity. I repeat: who does what and how. It's as simple as this. The PSD wishes to highlight as fundamental in this document the following: the definition of the regime of goods that are part of the public road domain and those that have been excluded so far; the conditions for the establishment of public dominance, their limits, restorations and accesses; the modification of the regime of road servers; the non-building, visibility, limits and rules. We also highlight the establishment of the user protection area, the management agreements between road administration and municipalities, among others; the schemes for the allocation and defecation of public domain goods by the mutation characteristics they possess; the planning and control of access to the network and the obligations of the owners of the neighbouring buildings with the road area. It is also worth highlighting the system of counter-ordinations applicable to those who violate the rules and to those who read the State and, more specifically, clarifying rules for the installation of areas of service and stations of fuel supply and advertising rules along national roads, controversial issues over the years and now we have the opportunity to revisit and clarify in law or port, or in detail what we will then achieve in the committee. The PSD welcomes the presentation of this diploma by the Government and will do everything in this Assembly of the Republic to improve the law, with the vision and participation of all political parties. We're here for that. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u9	Now everybody can talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u10	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u11	Mr President, Mr State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, Mr and Mr Members: This matter seemed to be consensual, so I was hoping that there would be a more alternative dynamic of the debate, but I already realized that the opposition does not value that same participation. I would like to begin by congratulating the Secretary of State on the subject and request that we be open here so that we can find something which I think is fundamental in this matter, which is a broad consensus and the participation of all. It makes sense that a country considered as one of the best in terms of road mesh has updated, simple, clear and legal certainty and that each of the interveners can know exactly what space should occupy and what their obligations and rights are. It seems to me that these two premises for defining what is the public use of road infrastructure and private use of the public domain are two areas that deserve to be, in fact, reconsidered and that there is legal clarification and simplification. I also think that better defining the role of the Institute for Mobility and Transport and the Authority for Mobility and Transport is reasonable. Having said this, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this instrument improves something in which the country has achieved obvious gains, from the point of view of fluidity and safety on the roads. More than any other issue, the safety and fluidity criteria are reasonable. What is a healthy relationship between the various speakers, particularly the municipalities that make comments — I do not have time to do so now, but Mrs Carina Oliveira has presented them - with some clarity and quite comprehensiveness - is to try to make sure that the municipalities know what is their responsibility in terms of licensing, management and financing and what is the responsibility of the State in terms of licensing, management and financing. It is also necessary to clarify the signs and advertising, which was a confusion and which no one understood, which was not good for business and for the management of the public thing, nor did it contribute to what should be a healthy relationship between the various stakeholders, particularly users. If we have the art and the ability to make a clear, simple and consensus instrument, I believe that, in this area too, of road traffic, its management, its financing and its control, we will take a step forward. There is, in fact, an opinion that I have read and which I think deserves better attention and perhaps even some clarification and some pedagogy, which is from the National Association of Municipalities. I understand that the municipalities, in what is the definition of our road map, should be heard, as happened with the National Road Plan, which had a broad consensus in this House. It is clear that then the use made of it does not seem to have been so warned, but I believe that there are conditions for us to reach consensus on this matter today, so that the opposition parties will want. on our part, we are fully available to make this a good instrument that is clear, safe and that can last for a few years. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u12	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Since 25 April, and especially since accession to the European Community, our country has been betting on the expansion of its road network. A new legislation is therefore necessary, appropriate to the reality of the National Road Network. in this sense, we consider it important to protect road infrastructure and the private use of the public domain. We also consider it important that this legislative opportunity guarantees and encourages the articulation among public actors involved in road infrastructure: the Portuguese Roads, the Institute of Mobility and Transport and the municipalities. An aspect of marked importance for PS is the correct and careful use of the figure of management agreements that are to be established between the road administration and the municipalities. In addition to these concerns, we stress part of the objections expressed by the National Association of Municipalities in its opinion on this bill. First, this legislative update, or related, or subsequent, should guard for parallel paths and restorations the same regime of variants, since part of these parallel paths and restorations that were transferred to the municipal domain entail conservation, paving and public lighting, etc. , and municipalities cannot be harmed. The second objection, which we follow, by the National Association of Municipalities, is related to the following: the legal regime of urbanization and construction that conferred on municipalities the competence of licensing of buildings and fences. However, this bill provides for the obligation to authorise the road administration for the construction or implementation of the seals, thus making it essential to clarify that the administrative acts assigned by this bill to the road administration do not prejudice or dispensate the powers of the municipal licensing chambers. Thirdly, where the State intends to transfer to the municipalities the management and preservation of road sections must do so through Law No 75 / 2013, i.e. through inter-administrative contracts, which should be accompanied by the financial and technical resources necessary for that delegation. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will participate in the speciality process in order to accommodate this set of concerns and thus improve the diploma. Mr Secretary of State, taking advantage of his presence in Parliament, I would like to say the following: this morning the Committee on Economics and Public Works issued a request from the Socialist Party to hear the Secretary of State in Parliament on the decision he made at the end of December 2012 to transfer to the State, to the Parpublica, a swap contract associated with a private loan.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u14	This is laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u15	We are talking about a decision that you, as Secretary of State, made on a loan that was made between private entities — the company Elos and a banking union — with a view to building the high-speed segment Poceirão / Caia. One of these EUR 690 million loan lines was later transferred. In fact, the swap of this loan was transferred to the Parpublica, to the State, by its decision, Mr Secretary of State, but kept the money of that loan — the EUR 87 million — in private, in the company Elos, where you served as administrator. The question put to Mr. Secretary of State is: where is virtue, where is the good business of your decision? What are you afraid of when the Secretary of State comes to Parliament to explain himself? Why is the majority of PSD/CDS afraid to let Mr State Secretary come to Parliament to explain this decision? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u16	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u17	I shall conclude, Madam President. For us and for most Portuguese, the decision that Mr. Secretary of State made is not different from the decisions that led to the removal of the former Secretary of State Braga Lino and Juvenal Peneda. Parliament needs its explanation, the Portuguese demand that it explain how it made that decision and how that decision brings benefits to the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u18	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There is an expression that has been used in various interventions, including in the Secretary of State, which has its own legal concept and meaning, but which at the same time gives you the impression that it is « the private use of the public domain ». One thing is to clarify, from the point of view of the law, what uses are given and which can be done in relation to the road public domain, in particular. Another thing is to check what has been, indeed, the policy and strategy of this government, which has been subjecting what is the public domain and, further away, the public interest in private use and the private interest of economic groups. in this regard, with regard to the National Road Network, there are fundamental concerns here. One, which has been very old, has to do with the policies of granting to the privates of the road network and the businesses that were made with the PPPs that the successive governments have been doing in this area. The other, most recent, is a new generation giant PPP that could be associated — and, in our view, it is relatively inseparable from this proposal in particular, in the sense that it can function instrumentally — to such a famous wedding, which you announce as a fusion and which we call dismantling, between the REFER and the Stradas of Portugal. And when we see that there are aspects in which, in general — and I would say kindly — we can consider that it is simply a problem of checking who can do what, where and when, the problem arises when these issues of public service and the functioning of transport systems suddenly turn into very greedy business areas and that can be passed on by the famous quick wins, i.e., quick gains, those businesses for us to dispatch and quickly take over what can be profitable, and which have recently come to the top of the table. I am thinking about things that have emerged with this bill, namely the licensing of activities, such as the supply of fuels and the power that this can bring; the very greedy business of telecommunications and other areas associated with the road technical channel—we remember the kinship that exists with REFER Telecom and the businesses that are prepared in this field;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u20	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u21	... the old and unworthy problem of the payment required by such a port on the issue of advertising and urban taxes, which is the competence of municipalities and of no one else, when what happens is there a kind of fee that is charged for an opinion to instruct the licensing of the authority. And that's no confusion at all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u22	You have to look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u23	There is no confusion, there is a lack of shame, unfortunately, and an absolutely illegitimate collection that is being imposed on small companies by this country outside. Finally, Madam President, fundamental in this area is the concern about a central issue, which is respect for the ability to rent and its competences, within the framework of its autonomy, in particular as regards licensing in the building processes, and the question of the almost administrative and automatic transfer of parts of the Highway Network, in particular of the parallel paths and restoration. In this regard, we have seen earlier proposals worse in previous legislatures. The Government's previous proposal on this was even worse than this, but it is appropriate to say that the problem is not yet solved. It's not like this yet! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u24	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Secretary of State... I know that the technical designation of his position is 'transport', but I find it more rigorous to call him Mr Secretary of State of Privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u26	That was funny! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u27	Mr. Secretary of State, the first bill we are discussing today establishes the Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network. I would like to make a previous point with regard to this methodological work of statutes to say that we believe there is a positive consolidation of legislation. In fact, everything that involves a reorganization of legislation and clarification of competence is, from a legislative point of view, a positive step. However, we have doubts and criticisms about the content of this proposal, first of all as regards the autonomy of municipalities and local power. In fact, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) has drawn up an opinion in which it is clear that it does not follow this proposal—and therefore submits other proposals—and that it has a number of doubts as to what measures are being presented to us today. thus, it was important that these measures were corrected in the specialty. It was also important to understand what was the Government's response to these doubts, which relate, on the one hand, to autonomy and, on the other hand, to the transfer of responsibilities to municipalities, i.e. whether or not this transfer is accompanied by financial resources that allow municipalities to respond to new responsibilities. A second question concerns two specific articles, Articles 16. o and 20. o. Article 16. it lists the road support equipment that integrates the National Road Network. I remember that the National Road Network relates only to national roads, supplementary routes ( CI ) and main routes ( IP ), therefore, does not concern paved roads. So much Article 16. as Article 20. the present bill refers to collection of tolls and means for collection of tolls. My question, before taking any illusion, is this: why is the collection of tolls mentioned here? Why do two articles appear that relate directly to the collection of tolls on itineraries and roads that, by their own conception, are national roads and are therefore not worn? I'm leaving a final note. We believe it would be very important to debate, not only with regard to road management, but also with regard to the reorganization of the sector, for example, the merger between the Stradas de Portugal and REFER. in this sense, we have made a request to be able to hear the administrations and committees of workers in the Committee on Economics and Public Works, which has been plummeted. In other words, the Commission rejected the possibility of an analysis by the Members of the various parliamentary groups on this merger, which is part of many other measures are reorganizing the entire transport sector. It is unfortunate that there is such a selective attitude towards what should or should not be discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u28	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the debate here on the Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network shows how the topic can be the subject of broad consensus. Moreover, the Government is also available to try to accommodate this consensus, participating, if desired, in the debate that is now followed in the specialty and seeking, with the views it has already presented and with other complementary ones, to make its contribution. Anyway, I would like to make a note on this. With regard to all the requests, to all the suggestions or conditions contained in the ANMP opinion, you can verify — I believe, indeed, that ANMP has already verified — that many of them are already accommodated in the current version of the diploma and those which are not eligible for accommodation. Therefore, the sign of openness which the parliamentary groups of the majority have given has perfect acceptance in the position of the government and also, I think, of the opposition. I know that I have passed the time you had, Madam President, but, with your tolerance, I just wanted to mention the question raised at the end of the speech by Mr Socialist Party. As I believe it has been widely discussed this morning, the issues related to this and all the swaps have already been widely discussed in a committee of inquiry which has had long hours of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u30	I was there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u31	However, I do not refuse to remind you of what is contained in a statement from the Ministry of Economics when a news report, which was already two years old, appeared again on the cover of a newspaper, which I repeat deserved a comment through a statement from the Ministry of Economics. On the other hand, there is a public deed with statements by the Minister of State and Finance, on the date of the Secretary of State of the Treasury, which stated that « The Public Service needed funding because it had a contract related to shares of EDP (... ) which required a payment of more than EUR 1000 million (... ). And he added: 'This transfer was made because, despite the existence of this contract...'— swap —... with negative value, the whole gave a cost of financing to the Public much better than any of the alternatives that the Public had at that time available. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ms. Minister of Finance continued, then State Secretary : « In any case, the contract, the swap, in particular, was analyzed by the IGCP, which validated the contract of the package, including that product, in the sense that it did not represent problems. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u32	Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u33	I conclude now, Madam President. He also said to now Minister of Finance: « I authorized the transition from funding to the Parpublica that had associated a swap contract. Yeah, it's true. In fact, this is public knowledge, and there is no reason why it should not be revealed. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, what does this mean? The Socialist Party insists on giving me power within the government which I clearly do not have.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u34	The state is losing money with its decision!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u35	I do not transfer funding to entities which are in my guardianship, decide not to finance, not to protect the IGCP, not to protect the Parpublica and the financing contract until it has been referred to the Court of Auditors, which is contrary to what the previous government did in relation to financing contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u36	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u37	There's no news, it's all over the debate. It is therefore proven that there is a lack of material for debate in the opposition. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u38	Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, we have concluded the debate on the proposal for a law No 275 / XII ( 4. ( a). We now move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the joint assessment of Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December, establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public public public passenger transport service in the city of Lisbon, without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the company Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA ( Caris, SA ) [ Parliamentary assessments No 127 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 125 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public transport service by metropolitan of passengers in the city of Lisbon and in the neighbouring municipalities of Great Lisbon, covered by the respective area corresponding to level III of the Nomenclature for Territorial and Statistical Purposes ( NUTS ), without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Metropolitan of Lisbon, EPE ( ML, EPE ) [ parliamentary assessments n. 128 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 126 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. For an intervention, Mr Paulo Campos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We shall now proceed to the parliamentary review of two diplomas relating to two more concessions, privatisations or how we can call the transfer of attributes from a service which has so far been public, made by public entities, to private entities. in this case, the public transport service is concerned, in particular in Lisbon, in particular to Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan. at the end of these years of functions of the current government, we find that there has been a bleeding in quality, but especially in the number of passengers, public transport in global terms and also in Carris and the Metropolitan. In particular, when compared with 2009, we found that there were reductions of about 30 % in the supply and of 25 % in the demand. This decrease has, in fact, been accompanied by a very significant increase in the costs of public transport and the costs of passenger transport. In other words, the expenditure of these companies increased, when analysed on the basis of passengers transported, and the revenue increased significantly. Consequently, the results remained after all this government intervention time. In the meantime, the government has come to propose to us after making a set of responses to workers, in particular with regard to their rights acquired with the reforms, but also with regard to a number of other situations that occur every day. This privatisation fury led the Socialist Party to request these parliamentary assessments and to present a set of alternative proposals, which, in essence, recast provisions which the Government included in the preliminary draft of the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. These proposals aim, for example, to eliminate references to exclusivity, to give the municipality the powers and powers as a granting entity, in particular with the specific authorization for the State to delegate to the municipality the powers of grantor, the powers of sectoral guardianship, the powers within the framework of the State's shareholder function. And this ability, not being a legal imperative for the government to do so, is, yes, a hypothesis, that in practice it is a sharing of competences and possible transfer of responsibilities to the municipality. This is the set of proposals we have put forward. in this assessment, Mr Secretary of State, I cannot but ask a question about your statement on the goodness of the swaps. We are not only talking about the financing, the transfer to the state, we are talking about that credit line that remained in private, in the company of which you were the administrator, and today who is responsible for that swap is the State. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u40	This has nothing to do with parliamentary appreciation! This is a little too much!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u41	Mr Secretary of State, answer this question: what is the reason for the State to have responsibility for a swap today, for a credit line that is not of the State and that is in the hands of a private company of which you were an administrator? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u42	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members: The Government's main or sole objective in transport policy is always the same — transforming public services into private businesses. By sacrificing the public interest or economic groups, the only commandment is to accumulate profits to be distributed by shareholders. All the experiences of privatization in public transport have resulted in enormous damage to users and the State budget. In many European countries it was the worst way the lesson was learned. Now, the government wants to impose on our country, once again, the application of the same disaster recipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u45	The Government now wants to resume these policies of public-private partnerships ( PPPs) and apply them to public transport in Lisbon and Porto, in this case to Metropolitan and Carris. The successive PSD, CDS and PS governments have for decades decided the works and ordered companies to go to the bank to pay for them. The same happened in the commercial exploitation of public transport undertakings, with chronic underfinancing, always covered by debt. They have created such a large debt in companies that today, with almost zero investment, debt is already growing only with interest payments, weariness, financial speculation. The government, with the decrees under consideration, now imposes the worsening of this whole scenario. With this new model of PPPs, public companies would be reduced to a single revenue—from the ticket—and at the same time, they would be obliged to pay the private sub-contractor a higher annual than the revenue of the collected ticket. With these PPPs, public undertakings would have no choice but to be indebted, once again, on behalf of the State, to bear their own costs in relation to debt service, to the complements of the reform — if the Government lets them have — and to all the other obligations held in the concession contract. With this PPP, only private sub-negotiators had to win. They earned millions and still had the right to explore directly the advertising, commercial spaces and other property profitability services that were given to them by the hand. See what happened to Fertagus.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u46	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u47	For public enterprises, the financial asphyxiation remains: in the Carris, the Lisbon Metropolitan, in all public transport companies, users still suffer from the gross supply reductions imposed by the government since they took possession, already thinking about privatization. Another objective of the Government is to nullify the rights of local power, including the City Hall of Lisbon, in view of its announced intention to do everything possible to prevent the sub-concession of Carris and the Metropolitan to private. in the same way, these diplomas are in contradiction with public positions of the AML ( Municipal Assembly of Lisbon ) and of all the municipalities that make up it. In fact, Carris and Metro are of particular importance to the city of Lisbon, but from then on also to the entire metropolitan region.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u49	The model that the Government wants to implement and impose is based on the subcontracting and precariousness of the labour force, with all that this implies for transport safety. Contracts give the sub-negotiator the right to review all existing regulations in the company, as has already happened in Porto, much of it directly related to workers. This is a strategic sector and we are talking about the security of people and goods with human lives at stake. What we want to reaffirm here is that we are not doomed to this policy, which requires the government to clean up businesses financially, not to benefit the private interests of the economic groups, but to defend the public interest. What is needed is for the Government to set fair conditions for supporting the operation and investment in order to provide better public service to the people and to release the companies of this garrot from the bank that suffocates them and from which the government serves the interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u50	The next intervention is the Left Block. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have yet another example of the radicalism of this government, which is absolutely indifferent to any financial, economic or social argument. We want to have a serious debate and we want to know why, how and to what extent the citizens and the country are getting better, to what extent the government is not using the State to make use of its economic dogmas to the detriment of public service and the interest of citizens. To what extent? Why? It is true that these companies are financially unbalanced — no one tries to deny it — but the financial imbalance comes exactly from the financial debt. The fault was never for the operation, the tickets were never too cheap, the operation was never too expensive, the workers never received too high wages. The problem is that for years, the Metropolitan and Carris invested without receiving a tot from the government, so they had to borrow money from the bank, and these debts were accumulated, and the money never arrived to pay them, and the interest accumulated a little more and, year after year, the debt did not stop growing. We can ask whether privatization or concession is to solve the debt problem. But it's not! The debt remains in the state and what goes to the private is the operation. The financial debt that causes the problems to these companies remains in the state and will be paid by the taxpayers. Now we also understand why in the last year, or in the last three years, prices have increased and there has been an attack on the rights of workers of these companies. It is that the aim was never to solve the financial problems, because they are solved by taxpayers' taxes. The objective is to make this operation profit so that private individuals can have an interest in this operation. The public service is now reduced to then hand over to the private, so that they can have profit, and still say "we did not have to reduce the public service, although, in the case of STCP, it is not a guarantee, because eventually we will have new reductions in public service. Do not keep on seeking. ” The result, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we pay twice: we pay the debt with our taxes and with that of all taxpayers and users pay worse services and more expensive profits to private. And the question is, why? To what extent is this better for users, for the country, for taxpayers? Why? Give us an answer that is not your pure ideological radicalism. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u52	Mr Rui Barreto, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u53	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Members : Today we discuss four requests for parliamentary review, two of the Communist Party and two of the Socialist Party, concerning two Decrees-Laws, which deal with the legal framework for the granting of public passenger transport service by two public companies, Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan. First of all, it should be noted that these two public companies, which provide a very relevant public service, in addition to others in the country, not only in Lisbon, will remain public. However, I must recall that this government, when it took office in June 2011, was faced with a black public finance framework and the unsustainability of an astronomical debt of the transport companies which was now around EUR 17 billion and which Mr. Members, in fact, if nothing was done, taking into account the history of the last 10 years, at the end of this Parliament debt could be in the EUR 23 billion. That is why already in 2011 the Government launched a set of measures to introduce good practices in management and to influence this trend. That is also why we have to look seriously at this matter. The country was obliged to implement a very long austerity plan for all Portuguese and therefore it was entirely appropriate for the Government, which called for an effort on taxpayers, to also be able, within itself, in companies that constitute the perimeter of the business sector, to have this rationality as well. We were facing a number of decapitalised companies, without funding and over-independence. We had to stop and reduce this bleeding. That is why the Government has implemented the Transport Strategic Plan in order to restructure to create sustainability. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible — even if it is unfair — that the State should do nothing and continue to transfer the volume of compensatory compensation without control. The Government is implementing a set of measures with rationality and reasonableness. What is at stake here is the fact that there is always and when, provenly, private services can provide certain types of services that are done more efficiently and more effectively and that this incorporates a gain for the State. I don't see any problem with that nor do I consider a dogma. This year, in the 2015 Budget, the Government has managed to introduce a set of tax relief measures, notably in the IRS, IRC and in the deterioration of the extraordinary solidarity contribution for pensioners, which is only possible because there is strict management. If we want to reduce taxes — we want to be sure; all Members want to do so — we have to manage the public and public enterprises better. Less budgetary effort means less taxes tomorrow. So, in summary, I would like to say that more healthy companies, more competitive companies and guarantee of public service means greater sustainability which, in turn, means greater autonomy and greater autonomy means less tax burden for all Portuguese, who well deserve it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u54	Mr António Proa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u55	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Today we discuss the Decrees-Laws on the granting of collective public transport of passengers to the surface and the metropolitan area in Lisbon. Let us be clear: what the CFP defends is not surprising, it is always the same. What is surprising is that the CFP never explains how it supports its proposals, that is, who pays.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u56	We explain, you guys never understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u57	On the other hand the Socialist Party, whose peak has been "someone has to pay" here today makes a sad figure. From that point on, because you should be ashamed to have left Carris and Metro in a situation of almost bankruptcy with the aggravating that you have actively contributed to your imbalance as happened in the case of Metro. Are the PS now suggesting new management models? Oh, my God! With what credibility? None, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, none!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u59	But the sad socialist figure, today, does not stay here. The PS, which today appears to defend the local leadership in the management of Carris and Metro, is the same one that withdrew in 2009 the representation of the City Council of Lisbon in the Metro Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u61	Today, the PS here reduces its position on the future of public transport in Lisbon to the confrontation position that the President of the Lisbon Chamber intended to have with the Government. If he wanted to negotiate genuinely with the government, he had not faced it, publicly defending positions that he already knew had been refused. This isn't about negotiating. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is worth stressing today what the current government has achieved in these companies that have found on the brink of the abyss. Today they present sustainablely positive operational results. If we remove historical indebtedness, these companies operating in Lisbon no longer depend on State funding through taxes from all Portuguese with realistic tariffs and therefore stabilized — this year, for example, there were no increases — and with the demand, although strictly, to increase again as, I am sure, we all want. But it is worth clarifying our view of the role of authorities in the management of local public transport. the municipalities have a central role in planning, development and even transport management, as they are essential tools for the implementation of mobility policies in cities. However, the operation of transport undertakings is an activity which can be carried out by opening up to the private initiative through concession. The municipality of Lisbon must accompany and intervene in the preparation and follow-up of the process of granting Carris and the Metropolitan. More: the municipality must have a central role in the management and supervision of future concessions. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u62	So why are they privatizing?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u63	in this context, Mr. Secretary of State, it would be important to clarify what role the authorities will have in this process in defining the specification of charges, in managing the concession and in future concessions so that the lack of solidity of the criticisms mentioned herein becomes clear. But let me ask you a further clarification, which results from a fair concern of the citizens and which is also the Social Democratic Party, with regard to the maintenance of public service obligations, the maintenance of quality of service and tariff control. Does this process guarantee these conditions? Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the Secretary-General of the PS, who is also President of the Chamber of Lisbon, argue that the municipality must be directly responsible for the operation of Carris and the Metropolitan. at the same time, the Lisbon Chamber failed to meet the commitments made regarding the increase in the extension of BUS tracks in the city, important for the performance of Carris and for the quality of the service provided to users. For the Socialist Party to be taken seriously must first be credible. to Dr. António Costa we suggest that you concentrate, first, on fulfilling your present obligations, which you have not been able to fulfil, such as garbage, holes or floods, before you intend to assume new responsibilities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u64	For an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we proceed to the parliamentary review of two Decrees-Laws, two legal diplomas that no longer do but take a step towards the privatization of Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan, the question is, in fact, what is most lacking in privatizing? This Government continues to reaffirm its ideological burden, it continues to show signs of its difficulty in dealing with everything that is public. If King Midas turned gold into everything he stirs, this government all that moves and is public transforms into private—CTT, STPC, Port Metro, TAP, Carris, Lisbon Metropolitan, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u67	Mr. Secretary of State continues to find it thanks to privatization... it's interesting to register. Everything serves to fatten the market to the private, everything serves for the government to get rid of its responsibilities. We know that this government has never dealt with citizens' mobility as a right and much less as an instrument of access to other fundamental rights, especially at a time when the closure of public services is their mark. With more or less smiles, the closure of public services will, in fact, remain the mark of this government! However, these closures attach even more importance to the right to mobility, but that, for the Government, does not matter at all. It is in his interest to continue to satisfy the gula and the seat of the private, by handing over the desirable sectors, such as the transport sector. We also know that this Government has never addressed the need to value public transport as a way of taking a real alternative to the use of individual transport, thus helping to combat one of the most serious problems we are facing today: climate change, but also to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But that, for the government, does not matter. It is important to guarantee the profits of private companies and to market them. The government says that both Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan are indebted. Mr. Secretary of State, what the government does not say is why. Why does the government not say the reasons, the causes?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u69	We understand the silence of the Government on the reasons that led to this situation, because, for further efforts by the Government, especially the Secretary of State, who is fertile in this matter, in these manoeuvres, cannot hide this fact: the situation of these companies is due to the accumulation of debts that the governments have made by systematically refusing compensation to which these companies were entitled. Therefore, in good rigour, Mr. Secretary of State, if you want to turn your speech a little bit closer to the real, it is not these companies that have historical debts, it is the government that has historical debts to these companies. In conclusion, I just wanted to say that privatizing public transport is to transform citizens with rights into customers who are obliged to the contingencies of the interests of private groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u70	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u71	For this reason, the Greens are presenting two legislative initiatives today in order to put an end to the effects of these diplomas which we now appreciate, on behalf of the public interest, on behalf of the environment, but also on behalf of citizens' rights, which also needs to be balanced in the management that the Government is doing. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u72	I now give the floor again to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u73	Mr President, a number of issues have been raised in this parliamentary opinion and I would like to take this opportunity to try to clarify. As you know, the Government programme provided for a thorough restructuring that we have carried out in this sector. The sector today is operationally balanced. It is and will be, because we have taken a set of measures so that the situation we have inherited cannot be reversed in the future, in order to give the taxpayers the calm that Mrs Mortágua asked. Ms Mariana Mortágua said, following my intervention: "Well, what do taxpayers gain from this opening up to the private initiative? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I will tell you, Mrs Deputies, and with this I will follow the speeches of the Members of the majority. First of all, it is seen by the rules of the Porto competition, which will also be drawn up in the Lisbon competition, that the service remains at the limit, but remains at the present level ; that quality remains ; that the investment will be taken from here by the privates who will take account of these concessions; that the tickets will adjust their price to the inflation rate, and no more; and that the assets remain in the public sphere. That is why we are talking about concessions rather than the transfer of capital/ privatisations, i.e. assets remain in the public sphere. We also said something simple, that is, we would only transfer the management of these public services to private entities if, on a comparable basis, the cost was lower. And, according to the proposals that have been put forward, in Porto — and our expectation is that the same happens in Lisbon — for example, in the case of Metro do Porto, the cost decreases by EUR 8 million per year, in 10 years it is EUR 80 million, and in the case of STCPs it decreases by EUR 6 million per year, in 10 years it is EUR 60 million, with the investment to be transferred to the private operator. Here is the answer, Mrs Deputies, how the taxpayers are protected with these decisions. We save money in service delivery, transfer investment responsibility to the private. But here is a central role of the authorities and it is the change of paradigm. As the honourable Members said. Mr Rui Barreto and Mr António Prôa, the authorities are now given a central role because they are transferred the role of managing the transport system, in the metropolitan areas and through the bodies that will happen to the metropolitan authorities, with the presence, exclusively, autonomous. In other words, the State leaves these bodies and remains exclusively autonomous bodies, which will ensure compliance with the rights and obligations which are affected by these contracts. There is no doubt that those who want immobilism normally have two or three excuses. First, that the government is already at the end of its term of office, it must do nothing. Secondly, we must not transfer, even by protecting taxpayers, public management to the private sphere. Here, in an ideological solution: what is public must be managed by the State and must not be managed properly or poorly. For us, what matters is the quality of management. And finally, the transfer of competences to the authorities, or the transfer of funds, so that the service continues to be provided with quality and regularity rates as so far. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u74	Once again, Mrs Mariana Mortágua entered the Left Block for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u75	Madam President, just to express my confusion. The CDS says it is necessary to privatize the operation because the state has no money. The PSD says the government has done a great and wonderful job and has put these companies to profit. So what are we staying on? If the government has done such a good job for these companies that they now make operational profits, why will it deliver this profit which, according to the CDS, is so necessary for the State accounts, to private? It doesn't make sense, it's a business that doesn't make sense! There is no argument, it is pure radicalism. We don't have quality public services. What is being handed over to private operators, after the three years in which Mr State Secretary has been cutting down services, attacking workers' rights, increasing prices and eliminating social passes, is not a quality public service. It's not! Any quality public service requires funding, as in any country in Europe. This pilgrimage idea that there are quality public transport, comprehensive for everyone and affordable, which does not cost taxpayers a toss is a wrong idea, is a contradiction with the need for public service and the principle of solidarity. And that's exactly why before the privatization of the operation 51 Cascais Line trains were eliminated. Why? It is then that the private is not obliged, himself, to eliminate them! And then Mr. Secretary of State said: "Well, there is maintenance of public service." Thank you very much. The public service was cut by the government itself before privatisation. Mr. Secretary of State, I believe and assume that you may have an infinite talent to set up a private transport business, but this is not public service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u76	Mr Bruno Dias also entered for an intervention by the CFP. Although I have very little time, I have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u77	Madam President, time is so short that I have only this question to ask: you, who like to talk about taxpayers so much, why don't you talk about the debt of these companies, which has gone from 17 000 to 21 000 million euros, that taxpayers will pay and that you want to do these business? Why do you not speak of the EUR 7 million in the 2015 State Budget for redundancies in the Metro? Why don't you recognize that Metro and Carris lack staff, have had a brutal cut in supply and a brutal increase in price? Why do you not admit that what you are deciding has consequences shown by Europe outside the level of security itself, which has already cost human lives in several countries and which you are applying here the same recipe? What is lacking for you to draw lessons and lessons from what is being the reality of the revenue you are applying here and what has proved what is happening throughout Europe? That's enough, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government! That's enough! It is time for this policy to leave, with you too, once and for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u78	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Campos, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I want to make a small correction to debt. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, the indebtedness of Carris and Metro, of the companies we are currently considering, increased more per year than in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, Mr. Secretary of State. It is good that we ask these questions and we will see who has contributed to the indebtedness of these companies. And, Mr. António Prôa, do not forget the indebtedness you left in the City Hall of Lisbon...! [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] With regard to the invitation that we made just now so that the tens of proposals submitted by the Socialist Party in this Parliamentary assessment are effectively discussed and worked with the other parties, we cannot fail to signal the proposal that we made, with regard to the city of Lisbon, and that concerns Carris and Metro, from the point of view of its efficiency, and to bring to this solution a set of municipal revenues — advertising, IMI and parking — which, of course, contribute decisively to the improvement of public services provided in Lisbon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u80	It's the increase in IMI!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u81	... taking into account the proximity and conditions that a municipal chamber has in connection with the planning policies of the territory. This legal solution is solid, it is made through an inter-administrative contract, which, in fact, the Government is using with other authorities in other areas. The question I am leaving, Mr Secretary of State, is whether there is a problem with transport, and therefore the inter-administrative contract here cannot be applied, or whether there is a problem with the City Council of Lisbon and with the President of the House, António Costa. Tell us what the problem is. As Mr. Secretary of State still has 26 seconds, answer the question I just left you...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u82	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u83	And I will conclude, Madam President, by asking you the same tolerance that you recently gave to Mr. Secretary of State. My question is this: why is it that Mr. Secretary of State, today in government, transferred a swap to the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u84	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u85	...and I'm not talking about a swap associated with the transfer of the credit line to the state, am I talking specifically about that line of credit that remained in the company of which you were the administrator? I'm not talking about anything else, because the rest...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u86	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. You have achieved equality of arms!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u87	And I will conclude, Madam President. The rest is very worrying, because you have decided in conflict and with an incompatibility of ethics. But this is not the issue of incompatibility here, but rather the fact that it has taken responsibility for a debt it has today, transferring that swap to the State. In other words, today the company owes the banks about 90 million euros, but who pays the cost of the swap, of the 90 million euros that are in that company, is the State, and you were the administrator of that company. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u88	The Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the issue of debt, which has been raised here, has an obvious answer. The State, having ensured the operational restructuring of companies, has also sought to initiate the financial consolidation process, transforming debt into capital, thus recapitalizing the companies, and thus assuming that the liability for assuming the debt of companies is, in fact, the state and its underfinancing. It was not this government that subfinanced them, because the debt growth that occurred in our mandate is the result of interest on the previous debt. Mr. Paulo Campos says: « Well, it has risen much more than in 2005 ». Of course, because historical debt was much higher and therefore interest on a debt of EUR 17 billion is a much greater sum than interest on a debt of EUR 5000 or EUR 6 billion. But finally, we are already used to the joke about the accounts, which is often done on these matters. But let me also take advantage of the tolerance to say the following: let us see what the discussion on the TAP that today the PS has decided to bring through parliamentary appreciation and that it has nothing to do with the subjects under discussion, because it shows well that the PS does not want to know about transport or the status of national roads, which is news two years ago. That's what the PS wants! in a first attempt, the Socialist Party says: « This swap was speculative or toxic». But no, because the IGCP said no. Then he says: "Well, this man was working for the private". But not because I was director of the Box, I was always director of the Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u90	He was a manager of Elos!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u91	...and the General Deposit Box, where I was the director, entrusted me with these matters and his board of directors made the decisions. Having failed these two strategies, then, comes a third, which is to say: "Well, but this swap and this funding have been decided upon by you", even though the Secretary of State of the Treasury, two years ago, long before this controversy, said, in the committee of inquiry: "I have decided! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So let us see what the fourth strategy is, if there is a fourth strategy on this matter! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u92	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u93	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u94	I will conclude, Madam President, by saying that I believe that the Portuguese have already understood something simple: this news two years ago now emerges again for a reason. A short time ago the report of the Court of Auditors on the TGV, which showed, to its satisfaction, its unsustainability and the responsibility of the previous governments in relation to a project that would bring more charges to the taxpayers, many million euros of charges to the taxpayers. In this regard, not a word from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u95	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u96	But perhaps shortly, when we enter the parliamentary opinion on TAP, the Socialist Party wants to say something about this report! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u97	Have decorum and apologize!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u98	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, I will finish by assessing Decrees-Laws Nos 174 / 2014 and 175 / 2014. Mr President-in-Office of the Bureau, Mr Baptista, tells me that a number of initiatives have been taken to the Bureau on this subject. You have the floor, Mr Secretary, to make the point before we move on to the next point.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u99	Mr President, the following legislative initiatives have been introduced into the Bureau: With regard to Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December, establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public public public transport of passenger area in the city of Lisbon, without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Companhia Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, S.A. ( Carris, S.A. ) [ Parliamentary assessments n. 127 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) and 125 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), the draft resolutions 1222 / XII ( 4 ) were introduced into the Bureau. a ) ( BE), 1225 / XII ( 4. a ) ( The Greens) and 1227 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), requesting the cessation of the validity of that Decree-Law, and proposed amendments to the PS ; For Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December 2014 establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public passenger transport service by metropolitan in the city of Lisbon and in the neighbouring municipalities of Great Lisbon, covered by the respective area corresponding to level III of the Nomenclature for Territorial and Statistical Purposes ( NUTS ), without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Metropolitan in Lisbon, EPE ( ML, EPE ) [ parliamentary assessments n. 128 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 126 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), the draft resolutions 1223 / XII ( 4 ) were introduced into the Bureau. a ) ( BE), 1226 / XII ( 4. a ) ( The Greens) and 1228 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), requesting the cessation of the validity of that Decree-Law and proposed amendments to the PS. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u100	We will consider Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December, which approves the process of indirect reprivatization of the capital of TAP, Portuguese Air Transport, SA [ Parliamentary assessments No 129 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 130 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ]. To present the parliamentary opinion of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u101	Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Government members : As long as they try to impose your inevitability, they will not fail to face the resistance and repudiation of more and more large sectors of Portuguese society against the privatization of TAP. There is no PEC, there are no renewed Troikas or Patrons justifying this economic crime, this betrayal of sovereignty, which would be the privatization of our flag airline. The government's propaganda, nor does the government believe it. The rulers reject each other, the European Commission rejects them later, and in the end, they are all denied by concrete life. We will then see what the government will say and what part of its speech will be denied tomorrow! The government says everything is guaranteed. But what even the burden book recognises is that the risks are very real and very large: to shoot the subcontracting at 25 % (i.e., one in every four flights is done in outsourcing) ; risk of redundancy that deserves a two-year pseudo-savguard; risks of the exit of the hub that justify a 10-year pseudo-savguard. That conversation doesn't take, sirs. Members of the government! It does not take the argument of « flexible management », from those who block the admission of staff and it takes six months to authorize it. It does not take the money from the 'public money' when TAP does not receive a dime from the state and the low cost companies continue to be supported. It does not take the « growth or death » when three of TAP's 11 new routes have already been suspended and when last summer it confirmed our warnings about the unsustainable growth of the operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u103	You speak as if TAP was threatened to close and should be saved. It's fake! TAP is a solid economic reality in exports, employment, economic dynamisation of upstream activities and downstream of air transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u104	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u105	The only big threat TAP faces is your policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u107	We have heard your catastrophic forecasts in 1998 and 2012 and the TAP has not been privatized and has even grown. Imagine what it will be like when we have a government committed to defending it, instead of alienating it at all costs, by conviction, fanaticism or order! However, we deeply regret that the PS will come to this debate with a document to also propose the privatization of TAP by other ways. The option is not to sell TAP faster or slower, either in a cabinet or in the Stock Exchange, in regatta, such as CTT or ANA, or to benefits such as EDP or PT. Don't send TAP to get wool to go out of town! What is needed is to defend the TAP, keeping it in the public sphere. Only then can you safeguard your role as a strategic enterprise for the economy and for national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u109	The CFP has already presented concrete proposals and solutions for TAP constraints. We highlight here draft resolution No 1150 / XII ( 4. ( a ), for the improvement of the operation and operation of the TAP, which we have presented in this House just over two months ago ; we also present at this time a draft resolution so that this Decree is no longer in force and this privatisation is cancelled. This debate and this agenda that the CFP is promoting are the parties and the Members. Members facing their responsibilities. It is possible and indispensable, here and now, to stop this real crime against the national interest. TAP is all of us, and it has to continue to be. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u110	To present the parliamentary assessment of the PS, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : I begin by congratulating Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro and sentence is that Minister Pires de Lima has not been discussing TAP. After the monumental contradiction in which he has been involved, the Minister has said something about the TAP, but has fled "to seven feet" from the contradiction. With regard to fleeing, Mr Secretary of State, we are very willing to discuss the swap, to debate the high speed. In fact, here I have a quote from you, signed by you, in a working group of PPPs, which says that the impact of high speed at the age of 15 was null and could even be positive in the long term. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, do not hide behind the majority and come to debate this issue in the Committee on Economics and Public Works. In the area of TAP — and now entering into the subject of parliamentary review — Mr Secretary of State, the Government has refused to explore all possibilities for institutional dialogue in order to find a more comprehensive and consensual solution to the TAP; it has refused to negotiate with opposition parties and society on possible alternatives and presented; it has not explored all available mechanisms and solutions with the European Union. Similarly, the Government is neglecting, with its privatization options of 100 % at two times and the procedural way in which it is doing so, the fact that TAP is recognized as a strategic enterprise for the country and its contribution is as much as greater in alignment with Portuguese geopolitical and geoeconomic interests. The Government also ignores the added value of the TAP in terms of notoriety, of proximity and trust with Portuguese, of high security policy, of the Portuguese culture, of a social and territorial cohesion factor, and of a qualified management team and human resources valued and disputed. The government forgets that the TAP has grown and improved its performance over the past five years. He grew up in number of passengers, flying hours, destinations, revenues grew and the company released capital in many ways. Net debt decreased by 33 %; TAP’s air service has always benefited; in the last 10 years the company has invested EUR 709 million and in the last 20 years no capital increase has been required. Therefore, the Government has forgotten this data which does not justify the proposed privatisation. Mr Secretary of State, we have already told you — and you have already acknowledged it in part — that the government has guided this process with a huge lack of transparency, not only because it does not appoint the special monitoring committee in a timely manner, and here I am challenging: why not appoint the previous committee? — but also because it prefers private businesses and direct adjustments, and has sought to condition a future government with sales options and purchasing options of 34 % and even goes to the extreme of wanting to set a price for future sale, unlike the one that happened, for example, in TTCs. The government does not present financial assessments either, does not present studies and, from a legal point of view, the specification of charges is very, but even very, very little solid. Therefore, the government has forgotten the company's good results, failed in dialogue, failed in the study of the alternatives of capitalization, failed in transparency, failed in wanting to condition the future government and failed in the legal soundness of the entire process and, therefore, we want to cease the validity of this Decree-Law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u112	For an intervention, by the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debates seem to be an eternal one and the questions are repeated. Why? TAP is the largest national exporter, employs 11,600 workers, has a crucial role in investing, in technological development, in connecting emigrants to this outside world. In fact, there have been more than a decade of attempts to privatize TAP and always unsuccessful. And yet, because at least one of the potential buyers 10 years ago, however, went to bankruptcy. If we had gone into conversation and privatized TAP today it would not exist — this happened at the time with a PS government, even.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u115	For more than 10 years, TAP has surpassed several announced deaths: debt is too big, there is no financing conditions, there is not enough capital. Still, strangely enough, the TAP has grown, the TAP has developed and now everything that has been achieved, despite the announced deaths, in the development of the TAP and that has transformed it into one of the most important national companies is at stake. At the most comprehensive level — I know that this plan is quite indifferent to the government — it is at stake our ability, as a country, to leave resources and tools to the next generations so that they can lead the economy as well as understand. But for that, they need resources. It is at stake our ability, as a sovereign people, to democratically control the economy and that capacity is lost from the moment a strategy company like this is privatized, we do not know very well who, nor under what conditions. But not only: it is at stake to guarantee the maintenance of jobs in the medium term. I was concerned when the Secretary of State announced this measure, a gross violation of the right to strike and the rights of workers, meanwhile denied by the Prime Minister. In order to ensure that there is no doubt about this type of potentially unconstitutional measures, we would like to have access to the book of charges and the guarantee that there are no similar guarantees, simulated, on the same path as Mr. Secretary of State presented on the day that the book of charges became public. It is in question the guarantee that the activity will remain in Portugal today, tomorrow, from 10 years from here to 20 years, forever. It is concerned to ensure that activities are developed here and exported and not developed outside, through outsourcing, and imported. Because this concerns not only the TAP and its workers, but also the national economy and the country's trade balance. It is at stake to ensure the continuity of links services to the various points of the world where we have migrants. It is not a guarantee today or tomorrow, it is a guarantee within 10 years, from 20 years, and we do not have it. It is at stake to ensure that the TAP, after this process, or even now, is not sold to an abutre fund and then cannibalized, decapitalized and sold to whom it appears, as happened to PT. What guarantee does this not happen? It is not today, neither tomorrow, nor from now to 10 years, that it is forever, as the Portuguese generations continue to want to see in the TAP an essential instrument for their economy and democracy. Madam President, I conclude by saying to Mr Secretary of State that much more expensive to the country is the privatisation of TAP and the potential for future losses of democratic control over TAP than any public investment necessary in our Portuguese-based national flag company. The European Union is not an excuse and has already been denied several times. They may continue to keep an eye on this issue, but one thing we know: they will find a growing opposition to a whole of citizens and a civil society which does not see itself in this privatization and liberal radicalism of this government — indeed, this government which sees no other solution than to privatize all the companies essential for democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u116	For an intervention by the PSD, Mr Nuno Filipe Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : TAP is a flag company, a reference from Portugal, a reference in the aviation sector, for its quality, excellence and security. It is a flag company in Portugal and it is a pride for all Portuguese. However, it is also true that it is a company that has negative own capital and that needs investment, attention and a strategic development plan. So far, we think, we all agree. We want a stronger, more competitive TAP that invests and creates value. This is the best defense of the workers, this is the best defense of their operation. This is how the public service is defined and safeguarded. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what divides us is the way this can be done. The opposition understands that the public TAP guarantees this objective, but we are sure that no and the paradigmical examples of Sabena, Varig and, recently, of the Cyprus airlines demonstrate this, because the fact that they are public was no guarantee of anything and unfortunately these companies did not resist to prove that this was not the solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u119	You don't know how to rule differently, do you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u120	The opposition stubbornly decides to defend that the fact that we have a public TAP is a safeguard and recapitalisation was possible, but they forget about vital information: restructuring, in the face of public recapitalisation, would require lay-offs, sale of assets, reformulation and reduction of routes. We think that none of us want that, that workers don't want that, and what we want is a stronger TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u121	You should catch a TAP plane from out here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u122	If the gentlemen. Members understand that recapitalisation is possible, speak of what has happened in the Alliance and the Scandinavian Airlines. And once they say that TAP — and we agree — is a flag company, explain whether Lufthansa is not a German flag company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u123	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u124	...if Air France is not a flag company of France, if British Airways is not a flag company of the United Kingdom. There is one question that I think is relevant: none of them have public capital. [[PCP protests.]] What is vital is that TAP safeguard its operation, because that is what it defends its workers and their value.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u125	We could have a Volkswagen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u126	It was also important that there was a serious discussion here and the PCP, when it says that there is a solution in capitalization, it could also explain how it can be done and what parallel example it can find that it defends the company, the jobs and the investment, something which, in these molds and with these objectives, was never possible. Your utopia blinds the reality and is unfortunately denied by the facts. The Socialist Party is still more strange, schizophrenic and condemnable, because it defends today what it has never done in government. Worse! On page 14 of the Memorandum of Understanding of May 2011 the following can be read: "The Government undertakes to go further, pursuing a alienation of the whole..."—see : of the whole! — «... of the shares of EDP, REN(... ), as well as of TAP, by the end of 2011 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u127	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u128	Clearly, it would be important for the opposition to be serious in the debate, because I think that we all have the same objective: a stronger, more operational TAP, with more investment, which defends the workers, who defends the national asset and the flag company that it is. But, for this to happen, it does not necessarily have to be the state to be present; it has to guarantee the requirement, that the government, and well, has ensured with this schedule of charges and that it defends the future of TAP, workers, operation, investment and growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u129	What falsehood!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u130	That's what's vital. But it was something the Socialist Party has never realized and the facts help to demonstrate that what they left behind was an urgent need to intervene on the TAP to save it, because that is what we want, for the future of the company. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u131	For an intervention by the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by drawing attention to some aspects that we consider to be of the greatest importance, especially when one of the government's arguments to privatize TAP is the balance of public accounts. The TAP, in addition to receiving nothing from the State budget, still contributes annually to the State's revenues. As we all know, the paid debt of TAP is due solely to the disastrous acquisition operation of Vem Brasil, which, in fact, was something with which the government peacefully complied. Nothing did and didn't even renegotiate it. In addition, TAP is the largest national exporter and it is also an instrument of our sovereignty, in a country with 11 Atlantic islands and important immigrant communities on all continents, scattered a little across the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u134	The PSD/CDS Government says that the privatisation of TAP is inevitable today. Mr Secretary of State, we have already seen the « film» of inevitability and I have to tell you that the « film» we have seen does not lend anything to the government's claims. In 1997, during the discussions in this Assembly on the privatization of TAP, the sale to Swissair was also presented as inevitable. Its inevitability was such that a government member even claimed that there would be no money for the next month's wages if privatization did not go forward and that the sale to Switzerland was the only way to save TAP and keep it operating. Almost 20 years have passed, Swissair no longer exists and Sabena, sold to Swissair, no longer exists! Thousands of workers from both companies were fired and the Swiss airports only recently started recovering from the losses they recorded. However, in that period, PAT grew, wages were paid and the Portuguese economy finally benefited by 3% of GDP. Now, in view of this picture, this example seems to us that it should be sufficient to realize the extent of the error that the Government is preparing to commit to the privatisation of TAP. If the Government is unable to perceive this error, of two, one : or there are interests in this privatization that the Portuguese cannot see and that the Government does not want to demonstrate to the Portuguese, or, then, this disability stems only from the neoliberal blindness of the PSD Government / CDS that inhibits it from understanding the size of the error that the privatisation of TAP represents for Portugal, and for the Portuguese. In fact, it is also because of this that the government is absolutely isolated in defending this privatization. Mr Secretary of State said, a few years ago, that the government cannot recapitalise the TAP, since the European Commission does not leave because it then demanded dismissal. Mr Secretary of State, I do not know whether he is still maintaining this liturgy, but the fact is that the European Commission has already said that, after all, things are not as Mr Secretary of State says. The European Commission, by the way, has never said or equalized the possibility of penalizing the government by recapitalizing the TAP. Mr. Secretary of State, on the bill of charges: that is not a book of charges, it is a book of deceptions! from the beginning to the end, it is a book of deceptions, it is a notebook of sand for the eyes of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u136	Mr Secretary of State, look at the specification for Article 5. that of Annex I, entitled Selection Criteria, and I read as follows : « The company must have the capacity to ensure compliance with the public service obligations of the TAP, including air connections between the main national airports and the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores ». Mr Secretary of State, we are talking about selection criteria, so we are talking about pre-contractual matters. I do not know whether the Secretary of State can distinguish what is pre-contractual matter from what is contractual matter and what legal effects one or the other may have. I would like to know what assurances is that Mr. Secretary of State has to tell us that the company that will be with TAP is subject to public service obligations. You know why, Mr. Secretary of State? Because we're talking about pre-contractual matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u137	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u138	I will finish, Madam President. More: do you want to force the company to stay with TAP to win public tenders for the air connections of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores? Oh, my God! Yeah, because there's gonna have to be a public contest! What the Government says in the selection criteria is that the company to stay with the TAP has to ensure links to the Autonomous Regions. Mr. Secretary of State, this is a joke and, from a legal point of view, it is an ambush!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u139	Who was the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u140	Instead of being a book of charges, it is a book of deceptions and it is a bucket of sand for the eyes of the Portuguese! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u141	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The advantage, perhaps, of speaking at this time is that, I believe, we can all respond with reasonable consensus to the question: "What do we want TAP? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I think all the benches will answer: "We want more TAP and better TAP". Question: "Do we have the TAP we want today? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I don't think so! Today, we have a TAP with a debt of EUR 1000 million, negative own capital at around EUR 400 million, a very competitive climate — the Portuguese Communist Party has just referred to the summer problems and the lines that had to be closed — the need for capital, the need to invest in new appliances and continue to be competitive in a very competitive world. So we can say today that there is something missing to have the TAP we want. Does the State today have instruments and gives the European Union the ability to intervene in the current model? Both the public accounts of the State and the examples already given here - and we can study them better - we find that the intervention and explanation of the European Union itself is that there are neither Community instruments nor the financial capacity of the State to give the TAP what we find necessary to achieve this aim. See what happened to the Cyprus airlines, which had State aid, used an instrument of the European Union and the European Union itself forced a retreat and perhaps at the end of the company. [[PCP protests.]] To the second question "How do we defend the alternative path? », I give cheap because what separates us from the benches of the Left Block and the Communist Party is a lot. We see the example of what the best European and world companies do, many of them with 100% private capital and other listed ones in Bolsa and they all continue to be flag companies, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u143	And they feed on TAP!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u144	They will ask me: "Why is this percentage of privatization? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I also accept the divergence, but let me tell you that it seems to me that this percentage allows us to escape that charge that often the left makes us: privatizing profits, nationalizing losses. Well, it is good not to forget that we have a problem called "VEM maintenance Brazil". With this percentage, you can not only recapitalize, you can not only get a more complete package, but you can still get a demanding burden book. And what does the order book say? What all the benches have alerted. In other words, we must maintain the hub, keep the company as a flag company and headquartered in Portugal, we must maintain the connection to Portugal and the countries that speak the same language, to the Lusophone world, we must maintain the connection to the islands — public service. In this respect there is a broad consensus in this House. If the Agenda for the Decade is read, the Socialist Party, in the second pillar, says the following : « Guarantee the maintenance of the main hub of TAP in Lisbon, the strategic routes linking Africa and Latin America and others in line with Portuguese geopolitical and geoeconomic interests and trade mobility ». This is in the book of charges and therefore I will not need to go back to the year 2000 to say that there is a broad consensus in the parties in the area of governance. Therefore, I would say that what we want is to have a TAP, plus TAP, better TAP, that flies higher, that uses more people, that guarantees a stronger and more effective contribution to the national economy. We believe, if transparency is guaranteed, if we have a serious discussion on the bill of charges, if we use the legislative instruments within our reach to protect the State and if we have a consensus that empowers the State to enforce what the bill of charges is, then we will have here a salvation of the TAP, because otherwise it is not possible, we will keep the TAP as a reference company, as it was, but we will certainly have more TAP, better TAP and better country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u145	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The interventions that preceded this have raised a number of important issues, but before we come into this particular matter, I would like to talk about the absence of the Minister for Economic Affairs today. Mr. Minister of Economics is the head of the Ministry of Economics and we function as a team and, when there are several tasks to be assured by the government, the government is represented in several. Mr. Minister of Economy is on his way to Davos to represent the country and to show that the mistakes of management of private companies have nothing to do with the recovery of the country and to explain why what happened in 2011 with the political action of this government will not continue to happen in the following years, so we will ensure the continuation of the policies of sustainability and economic recovery that have brought us here. That is what the Minister for Economic Affairs is doing, on behalf of the country, on behalf of economic recovery and on behalf of the recovery of the credibility of national investment. On the subject of the privatisation of TAP, I would like to note the following: first, it was said that the books of charges were not known. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua said she wanted access to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u147	Access to what is behind them, not to what is written!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u148	They are already published in the Journal of the Republic and will therefore certainly verify all the conditions there: those of a financial nature, namely capitalisation; those of a strategic nature, in particular the development of the company; and those of a working nature, in particular the referrals to the agreement reached between the Government and nine trade unions, which guarantees social peace in the company, its growth and development, present and future. We are also very clear about the rules associated with the privatisation process, not only the criteria for selection which are imperative and which, therefore, once breached from the point of view of the schedule of charges, the Government will not cease to take out the proper legacies there, in particular by not concluding the privatisation process, as happened, but also by the right of reversal, if these obligations are violated after the privatisation, rights of repurchase, if there is a violation of the strategic obligations later, and also — I would like to focus on this point — other aspects of a structural nature, namely the forecast of the existence of a follow-up committee. I have already publicly recognized that the Socialist Party has a point in this regard in its favour because, in the last privatisation process, we appointed the Monitoring Committee later. But I'd like to share with the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the monitoring committee to be appointed in the coming days already has the composition. She will be led by Prof. João Cantiga Esteves and will also have as members Prof. Morais Cabral and Prof. Duarte Pitta Ferraz, i.e. the same committee to follow up the process of privatization of TTCs that has since begun verified the regularity of the process and the fulfilment of all obligations. We do so before the process starts, recognizing that in the previous process we should have done it sooner. We thus show that our concern is also to meet, as far as possible and what is constructive, the concerns that the opposition is putting in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u149	Mrs. Members, since the PS still has 3 seconds, have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u150	Madam President, I take advantage of the tolerance that you have given to all, so I will be very synthetic and objective. Mr Secretary of State, although he will appoint the Special Monitoring Committee. It is unfortunate that it is not the previous one and that it is the one, a little more favourable, that it has been in the TTC. As for the criteria, we will carefully examine the work of the committee. Mr Nuno Matias, this has been so bad, so bad, but even so bad, to the government and to the majority in the process of privatization of the TAP last week that it only remains to make this figure of coming to read a translation of Marco António Costa and, above, truncated. It's so truncated that I won't waste any more time on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u151	You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u152	Mr Secretary of State and Mr Nuno Matias, only you are talking about restructuring and went to cover another legal assailment of Minister Pires de Lima. So we are not talking about restructuring and we have presented other alternatives. Mr. Hélder Amaral, we want to keep the profits, we don't want to privatize the profits. Mr. Secretary of State, I took good note of the challenge you made me on Monday about reading the order book well. And, as far as the burden books are concerned, we are faced with apparent and non-real guarantees. The conditions for direct reference sales resolution and the purchase and sale options concluded, in the event of serious breach of the obligations, bearing in mind the criteria for sale, are to be defined later in the context of the contractual instruments. So when the Minister speaks of the reversal of the business, it is only as a possibility to define in the future contract, it may not be worth anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u153	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u154	The Minister once again demonstrates his legal incompetence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u155	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u156	in the same way, and I conclude, Madam President, when we are talking about securing the hub and all the other aspects, it is also not densified in the book of charges what that means and, therefore, it may not be worth anything in terms of guarantees either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u157	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u158	Finally, Madam President, with a challenge to Mr State Secretary: let them stop being arrogant, weigh on these options and please step back on behalf of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u159	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is always a tolerance in terms of time, because the honourable Members. Members have difficulty ending abruptly what they are saying, but then fairness in excess of time generates an endless time of debate. As you know, the Bureau always gives one-minute tolerance, but, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not go far beyond this, because otherwise the prolongation of the debate is somewhat unbearable, in the sense that there are other issues to be discussed and time is quite short. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u160	Madam President, I will do as you say. Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Members speak in TAP's own capital, when so far they have been « pushing with the belly » the real scandal of the financial hole of the ex-Vem Brazil with more than 500 million euros buried there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u162	They talk about defending employment, thus recognizing that it is called into question, but they are already sending TAP workers hired in the long term, even with a lack of staff. They speak of investing in the fleet, but cancelled the contract with EMBRAER to PGA because of privatization. No new planes have come, no work has come to maintain TAP because of privatization. They speak in guarantees for two years or three or ten years, as if the world were coming to an end. If the privatisation of TAP advanced in 2000 / 2001, as the PS wanted, with a contract of these had already passed the deadline, they could end the TAP at will. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, leave the TAP alone, leave the country alone. If you don't know how to move, TAP needs the country, this government is not! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u163	The Secretary of State has again entered to intervene. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u164	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to note the following: first of all, what happens in the future of companies depends on their management, their development and their workers. Mr Bruno Dias, there are 95% of Portuguese people who know that their jobs are only guaranteed if their businesses and the country continue to grow and there is economic recovery. Growth is not decreed, nor is labour protection decreed not to be at a given time. But, Mr President, in the same way that I told the unions who negotiated with us, I would also like to say here that the work protection that is planned is limited in time and no one is wrong because the TAP has to grow to maintain employment, economic development and its impact on the economy. The privatisation of TAP doesn't take taxes anywhere else...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u165	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u166	... and it is all the workers, their assets, their management capacity, the country's economic development, the interconnection between the airport and the airline and the tourism of Portugal — the extraordinary work my colleague Adolfo Mesquita Nunes has done in the area of tourism — are these vectors that will make TAP a criterion of success in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u167	With PT it was all a wonder too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u168	You know, Mr Deputy, in the case of ANA, 100% private, all trade unions, from the CGTP to the independents, have agreed on the new business agreement guaranteeing wage increases and employment peace in the coming years. It is possible to do the same at TAP. So everyone wants and pursues the company's sustained growth objective. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on point 4. I would like to extend my congratulations to the honourable Members. State Secretaries. Before we enter point 5, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will announce some initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u170	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, relating to the subject we have just discussed, have brought draft resolutions Nos 1221 / XII to the Bureau ( 4 ). ( a ), 1224 / XII ( 4. ( a ), 1229 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 1230 / XII ( 4. ( a ) submitted respectively by the PS, BE, PCP and Greens, with a view to all termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December 2014 approving the indirect re-vitation process of the capital of TAP, Portuguese Air Transport, S.A.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u171	Mrs. Members, we have entered into point 5 of our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 655 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Change the Civil Registry Code, taking into account assisted medicinal product procreation, adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex ( BE), 656 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminating the legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ) ( BE), 753 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil affiliation and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ) and 754 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ). Mrs. Members, the authors of the initiatives have one more minute to present their bills. To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Cecília Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We insist on the urgent need to remove from the law the blockades that prevent the adoption of children by couples of the same sex today, recognizing the adoption in marriage, in the de facto union, in civil affiliation and at the same time dedicating the registration of these children in the same way as the others. We do so to end the double limitation of children's rights, to whom they limit the right to be adopted by whom they wish and have the conditions to create them, of couples of the same sex, to whom they have attributed rights by half; I also do so to end the resident legal aberration, since 2010, which separates us from so many and so many countries, starting with Spain and France, here so close.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u173	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u174	And we want to do this debate, welcoming the other legislative initiatives, the PS and the Greens, in coherence, because this debate on the left can only be a serious and responsible debate. It is possible, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are able to vote each and every one of us to put an end to this absurd hypocrisy. And I want to remember, can a homosexual adopt today, being single? Of course you can! Is your sexual orientation an impediment? Of course not! What if he or she gets married or actually live in union, can this couple adopt? “ Of course you can’t! """"""" says the overwhelming majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u175	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u176	You really think so, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what can continue to impose prejudice and discrimination on these families and on these children? They have recently been outraged for the best reasons and have been concerned with fundamental rights that have been attacked. Indignate today, at least a little, give us a little bit of your indignation, let your conscience speak louder than prejudice, because there is no dignity without equal rights and what is being discussed today and decides whether all children and families should have the same rights or not. For our part, we have no doubt. It is in your hands to undo prejudices, to enshrine rights, to end suffering, to recognize that there can no longer be families of 1 in Portugal. a and families of 2. a, that homoparent families have the same rights and that children in Portugal have the same rights. The fundamental thing is that they can be welcomed by those who love them, by those who respect them, by those who may have the conditions to educate them. You are at the hands of every Member and every Member. This is the discussion we are having today. [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u177	To present the PS bill, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Citizens and Citizens present in the galleries waiting for recognition, there are those who ask, denying the concept of parliamentary democracy: why insist on this issue? We answer: it is normal to insist on equality, it is not normal to insist on inequality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our agenda for the decade marks this project. Some say that the issue, already settled without revolutions, in 18 countries, in the best interests of the child, and, some days ago, in Austria, after the decision of its constitutional court, is a fracturing issue. The aim of the fracturing adjective is to put the idea that minority rights are detrimental to the rights of the majority. It is an aberrant and totalitarian thought, which has justified, throughout history, giving other names to marriages between slaves or inter-racials or women's rights. It is the thought of those who say that they respect homoparentity, but with another name, forgetting, in this legal drift, the horrors that, in the name of it, were made in the 20th century. But to those who insist on the word 'breakdown' I recommend that you keep it for poverty. Poverty breaks down, equality integrates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In Portugal, almost proudly alone in the Council of Europe, homosexual families are not recognized because it is not possible to adopt the spouse's son. They are an area of no right, full of children with only one mention in the register and without legal certainty, to remember records of the time of fascism. A couple of the same sex cannot apply to go through the adoption process and be evaluated, allowing more children to be deinstitutionalized and given to a project of positive kinship based on love and lasting security, because, as Minister Mota Soares said, institutionalized reception should be the last resort. This is the goal of adoption, not to reproduce an alleged ideal situation father/ mother or it would not be possible to adopt singular. This argument is the myth of those who insist on the hypothetical pseudobiological character of adoption. Every child has the right to be adopted! Apologies are over! The capacity of parenthood has no connection to sexual orientation. To refuse co-adoption or the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex, because of the possible effects of social discrimination on children, already scientifically denied as relevant, means to tell men and women that they lack their right to be a family. This was the argument used against ethnicity and illustrates the repugnant character of this same argument. On the other hand, homoparent families exist, as Prof. Jorge Gato writes today, they are not merely a theoretical possibility, with which one can agree or not. Having this proved and lived, what would have led Portugal to want to stay on the wrong side of the world, discriminate children according to a homophobic look at their parents? It is up to our opponents, in the year in which the Executive and the Assembly dedicate themselves to birth policies, the burden of answering this question. Let us be the other and allow the Republic to feel the integrative beauty of the rainbow. Let us join the shining walk around us and the counter-majority of fundamental rights. That is why responsibility is ours, that is why the place is this and gives by the name of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u179	To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens represent today their bill that extends families with capacity for adoption, allowing homosexual couples also to adopt. This bill was motivated by two factors, the first of which relates to institutionalized children. It is enormous the number of institutionalized children in Portugal and it is well known that there are concrete disadvantages in the institutionalization of children, especially in their emotional and social development. It is no novelty for any Member of Parliament or for any Member of Parliament. Therefore, the duty society has to do everything in order for these children to integrate a family, to integrate into a home is a duty that requires a responsibility of all of us, here too, in the Assembly of the Republic. The second factor is the discrimination that exists today based on the couples and the type of family we are considering. This means that homosexual couples are discriminated against by the possibility of adopting children. It doesn't make any sense! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly repeated in these debates that not all heterosexual couples have the conditions to adopt children. And also not all homosexual couples have conditions for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u181	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u182	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are many heterosexual couples who have conditions for the effect and there are many homosexual couples who have the conditions to adopt children, to care for children, to raise children and to promote them the emotional and social gift these children need. It's so simple, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just what our bill proposes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no innovation in what we are proposing here. Power-CL would even say: "It's an experimentalism that they want to do in Portugal." Not at all! So many, but so many, are the countries, and growing, that allow this adoption, that eliminate this absolutely absurd discrimination. This is also imperative to implement in Portugal, for children and for us to be against discrimination—it must be said with all the letters! [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u183	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this debate, today we resume the discussion of adoption by couples of the same sex. Because it is not the first time we have discussed this matter, it is useful to frame the issue in the reflection previously made, confronting it with the current reality. This issue has been, directly and indirectly, over the years of discussion and analysis in society and in Parliament, particularly during discussions on amendments to the marriage or co-ordination regime, whose regrettable outcome, imposed by the PSD, has put an end to the discussion without allowing the completion of the legislative process. In previous discussions, we stated that it was useful to separate and resolve the issue of marriage first by deepening the reflection on adoption and evaluating it later. We have also affirmed that we respect the understandable expectations and feelings of those who wish to see consecrated the possibility of adoption which today is sealed, that we do not ignore the concrete situations, of families formed, of affection links and effective relations of kinship and affiliation, and that we seek to reflect on these important issues with depth. The debate continued to deepen in Portuguese society and there are developments. Today's assessment of the legal change that has led to the possibility of marriage between people of the same sex is also an evolution, in the sense of greater social acceptance of the reality of these couples and families. The possibility of marriage, on the other hand, generated new problems and difficulties in the organization of life of these families, to which it is also necessary to respond. It is in this social framework that we should consider the issue of adoption. Today we continue to face the reality of children growing up institutionalized, waiting to be adopted. And couples of the same sex who want to adopt, but are prevented by the law of doing it together, seeing themselves obliged to do so individually, delaying or hiding the reality of the organization of their lives in common. If there were previously concerns about the possibility of stigmatization or discrimination of these families, today we see signs of progressive acceptance and social integration of these couples in Portuguese society. By not forgetting or devaluing the need to solve the serious problems that persist today in adoption, we want to signal the evolution that is taking place in this area and we will therefore vote in favour of the proposed projects. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u185	Also for an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the fourth time in this Parliament, we have discussed this topic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u187	Let's hope he gets here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u188	And for the fourth time, I would like to stress that for the CDS the right of any human being to be not discriminated against on grounds of descent, sex, race, language, territory of origin, religion, political or ideological convictions, education, economic situation, social condition or sexual orientation (Article 13 ). , paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ), is evidence for any humanist vision of society. Having said this, something different — and that should not be confused — is whether the right to adoption is a right that aims to protect the best interests of the child or whether it should represent an agenda — legitimate, but we disagree — that transfers the center of adoption of the child to the adopters, because they are of the same sex. For the CDS, it is indisputable that the center of adoption is the child. It is to the child that we have to guarantee the right to be adopted. It is true, and we do not deny, that there are desirable improvements in the laws and practices of adoption that respond to the number of children who, without this speedy response, can be institutionalized. We all recognize that the adoption process is excessively bureaucratic, with very long waiting times and pre- and post-adoption needs difficult to answer—to mention only a few of the problems. With this recognition, focused on defending the best interests of the child, it is known that the Government has taken concrete steps to review the law. This is certainly an important reform which, in our view, should not be affected by point-to-point changes, focusing on the interests or rights of adopters and others, in their size, on the impact that may have on the functioning of the institute as they are simply at the service of a party agenda. Therefore, from our point of view, it is not acceptable to confuse the right of a child to benefit from adoption with something quite different that would be a specific right of couples of the same sex to adopt. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] And this is for the simple and finished reason that at the heart of this proposal is not the right of children to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u189	Oh, he is. He is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u190	Let us say again that there is no evidence to ensure, safely, that when voting a law with this configuration, the legislator is effectively contributing to a harmonious development of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u191	That's prejudice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u192	There is enormous controversy over this matter and the proponents simply seem to ignore it, thinking that a law is enough to make a certainty appear. It proves this is because within half a dozen years, the PS has radically changed its opinion twice, first when it proposed marriage between people of the same sex, in which it expressly included in the statement of reasons for its diploma that — and I quote: "In view of the objectives of the adoption regime and the surrounding social and scientific framework, (...) it is justified to establish that adoption is not available on the part of people who are married to a same sex spouse". Question : Why was this exclusion made and why did the PS change its opinion in such a short time?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u193	It's been five years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us not say that this is a question of constitutionality, because the Constitutional Court has already pronounced itself unequivocally on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u195	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u196	More, in seven months the PS changed its position again. Only seven months ago, the PS proposed co-adoption rather than adoption by couples of the same sex. And what, then, was the reason they invoked? They said that what was at issue was not to extend to new cases, but only to resolve concrete situations already existing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u197	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u198	Now, of course, it is no longer a matter of giving legal cover to de facto situations, but indeed a new right to adoption. They are thus in view of the Socialist Party's real intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u199	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u200	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on such complex and sensitive topics, changing views so often and so short of time is not only a good legislative technique, as it seems to exchange structuring themes by supposedly breaking agendas of mere occasion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will conclude by saying that the CDS-PP thus leaves quite clear that it will vote against the projects under discussion, however, also making it very clear that it is available for something very different, i.e. in certain already existing situations that justify concern, guarantee or strengthen the protection of the best interests of the child, as part of the expansion of the exercise of parental responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u201	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We discussed once again...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u203	It was good to be the last one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u204	... the way the law and the State should ensure the conditions of human, social, civic and family development of children. This is what is underlying the proposals that have been put forward: ensuring the interests of children, in particular whether the adoption institute should be accessible to couples of the same sex. It is the fourth time in this Parliament that we have this debate. On 24 February 2012 a similar proposal was discussed and rejected. On 17 May 2013 a similar proposal was discussed and rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u205	It's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u206	On 17 January 2014, a proposal was discussed and approved for the conduct of a referendum that incorporated this matter and would be subject to veto following a Constitutional Court ruling. On 14 March 2014 a proposal on co-adoption was rejected in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u207	He seems to be talking about the State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u208	It is therefore the fourth and fourth legislative session in which the topic of the possibility or legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex is addressed in this Legislation. It should also be noted that the law determined this impossibility in 2010. It was in 2010 that this impossibility was enshrined, by the express will of the Members and of Parliament, in the law. It did so, moreover, at a time when it was introduced into the legal system the possibility of marriage of persons of the same sex. at that time, there were Members and parties who voted in favour and voted against the possibility of marriage between people of the same sex.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u209	We voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u210	The proposal was voted on and approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u211	With great pride!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u212	Those who, as my case is, voted against this amendment did not, in the next legislature, run to change the law that had been passed. at that time, in 2010, there were politicians and political parties who voted in favour and against the impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. Those who lost that vote, those who voted against this impossibility have repeatedly run every year of this Parliament, to submit a proposal for an amendment to that law. Ask yourself: Is it impossible, is it illegitimate to propose this amendment? Don't! It's not impossible and it's not illegitimate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u213	What is illegitimate is inequality, prejudice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u214	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's appropriate. The legislator should give society an idea of stability in legal principles. [[PS laughter.]] Do you think that a year, sometimes a few months, is enough time to question Parliament's political will about its decisions? I repeat: do you think that a year, sometimes a few months, is enough to question and change the political will legitimately expressed by all Members of Parliament and all Members of Parliament? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, regardless of the convictions of each of us, understand it appropriate that these matters, which are complex, which divide us, which cause doubts, are dependent, in order to be enshrined in the law, the composition of Parliament — sometimes not in this legislature or in that one, sometimes not in this legislative session or in that one, is on this day, or on that — that a matter of this complexity may be the subject of such treatment by the legislator? In the PSD, we have many doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u215	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u216	I conclude, Madam President, by saying the following: in any case, the PSD is proud to be the party of this Parliament where freedom of voting is most clearly expressed in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u217	And the rest is bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u218	Each Member of this bench will take its own position, conjugating and evaluating the content and size of the proposal, as well as the background and opportunity for us to be discussing now. The vote we will have tomorrow will express the difference of opinion within the PSD bench. I've said it once before and I'm telling you now that we don't think ourselves better or worse about it, but we're very proud to be like that. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Anjinho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u219	You have the floor again, for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u220	Madam President, after hearing Mrs Teresa Anjinho's speech, she listened to the correct quote from Article 13. the, paragraph 2 of the Constitution and having also heard the « passed by» that he gave on this issue, means that the change of the PS is normal. Using a phrase from your party's own leader, there are people who come to politics to grow and there are others who come to enlarge. We're growing up here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would also like to say to you, Mrs Teresa Anjinho, regarding the insistence in this debate, that it is normal for the new leadership — I know that you have not seen a new leadership on the CDS-PP for a long time — to include in the Agenda for the Decade the adoption by couples of the same sex. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We therefore consider it normal for the PS to say 'present', since the new leadership has democratically taken up this process to which you call the agenda at the Congress. But, finally, the words are with those who speak them. Mrs Teresa Anjinho says that it is not worth insisting on the point that nothing has changed in the parliamentary framework. By chance, I noticed that the PCP turned out to be in favour, so something changed, but maybe the others didn't notice. Then he says that this is a very controversial issue, that there is no consensus. For a person who studies Social Sciences to say that there is no consensus... I tell him that the subject is so controversial, so controversial, that we go to 18 countries, 38 states and 8 more jurisdictions and constitutional courts, complex and full of disagreements, do not stop saying that it is the interest of the children that is concerned when the adoption by couples of the same sex is allowed. See, Mrs Teresa Anjinho, how this is a crazy disagreement and how it is a partisan agenda in which there are 18 countries, 38 states, 8 jurisdictions. In the Council of Europe, I see that it adopts the paradigm of Romania, for example – brave for you! — and that's the PS, there's the PCP, there's the Left Block, there's The Greens, there's all these countries, there's the Austrian constitutional court, still so little time ago... Please, Mrs Deputy, it must have been wrong, but do not miss the truth. The President of the Republic, when he supervised the law of marriage, expressly ruled out the application for supervision the rule that removed the prohibition of adoption. Therefore, the Constitutional Court has not ruled on this matter. Finally, I must tell you that your position is not surprising to me because, despite being a fervent adoptive of anti-bullying campaigns and Article 13. the, paragraph 2 of the Constitution, was not surprised when Luís Villas-Boas, who integrates the Accompanying Commission of the Law of the Adoption of the Ministry of your Party, said that being lesbian is not to be a woman in the natural fullness of its term or when he said that in this case we were talking about a false affection. The CDS was informed of this letter, replied in writing and considered it normal and free expression. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u221	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u222	Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are also registered. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u223	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Teresa Anjinho : It is not surprising to hear the CDS invoke the Constitution, in particular its article prohibiting discrimination on the basis of so many grounds, namely sexual orientation. And, yes, Mrs Teresa Anjinho, to make this discussion serious is to recognize that it is also done in the name of the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u225	The honourable Member, who is accompanying this question and who has accompanied this discussion in 1. the Commission is well aware that there is an increasing scientific consensus on the fact that sexual orientation is not a determining factor in the quality of child education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u226	That was never at stake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u227	Therefore, honestly, at least intellectually should recognize this argument. As you know, Mrs Deputy, because she accompanies these issues, that this would be a determining issue for the exorbitant number of institutionalized children who are often victims of strongly tightened criteria with regard to heterosexual couples. thus, being-CL would give them the opportunity to have a family that desires them, that wants them, that can give them affection and that has conditions to create them. That's what we're talking about with all seriousness, we're not hanging around, we don't turn around on a fundamental issue. Mr. Luís Montenegro, you spoke here for the first time, for the second time, for the third time, for the fourth time... I even thought that Mr. Deputies would be talking about the Heads of State Budget in the Constitutional Court! ... But no, you wanted to speak in fact of the legislative initiatives put forward to unlock the law on the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. And it is true, Mr, that we will present as many initiatives as necessary to end this absurd discrimination, to end this aberration within the legal framework of the European Union itself, as you well know. Mr President, you have told us in legitimacy and you have wondered what is illegitimate. So I would like to ask you if you do not seriously consider it illegitimate to maintain prejudice, if this is not really what is illegitimate and which must be discussed. The honourable Member has made an appeal here to discuss stability. Mr. Deputies, for you to maintain inequality is talking about stability? Is this your concept of stability? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Is this the concept of stability for the PSD? Is it keeping these inequalities absolutely unbearable, Mr. Member? Is it to maintain this double limitation of rights for children and couples of the same sex? The honourable Member also spoke to us in pride and said: « We are proud». Sir, are you sure you keep that pride to the end?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u228	I have no doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u229	Are you sure that the PSD is able to maintain that pride until the end when it will legitimize, with your vote against, the inequality of these couples and these children? When will he deal with this condition and with this limitation of rights? How can you speak to us in pride, sir? [[Congratulations from BE, The Greens and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u230	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Teresa Anjinho : I think the honourable Member is that she focused adoption on the adopters, I apologize, or, then, I misunderstood. It is the fact that the honourable Member governs her thinking about the institute according to the adopters and their sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u232	You got it wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u233	I don't think I got it wrong. In fact, the honourable Member did not arrive here and said to the House: « I believe that heterosexual couples should be able to adopt and, despite having read Article 13. , homosexual couples should not be able to adopt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u234	I think you heard it wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u235	But the fact that you have not said it, in my view, is already a sign: you are ashamed to assume the discrimination that still goes on in your head, and this is an important sign. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, BE and PS Members.]] Madam Member, we need to take the next step, which is to retract this discrimination, to put aside this shame which drags this discrimination and moves on to the next step. And what does it mean to move on to the next step? Let's focus on the children! And here we will all agree. Let us think that institutionalized children deserve a family where they can be created and that any family that gives children the conditions that they need, regardless of their sexual orientation, must be able to adopt. Now, that is the step we need to take, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u236	They want to start the discussion on the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u237	Mr Luís Montenegro, it is true, it was four times that you and unfortunately most of the PSD Members maintained prejudice and discrimination. But the time has to come when this majority will take a turn! Mr President, I am fully convinced that every discussion that takes place in or outside the Assembly of the Republic is another step towards clarification, so that people reflect on the arguments, so that people reflect on the aberration of discrimination and realize that equality must continue. Do not be afraid of the debates, Mr President, regardless of the outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u238	I'm going to all the debates!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u239	No, don't be afraid or be confused with the multiple debates that are being fought against discrimination here, because they are always one more step forward, as you must recognise. Mrs Teresa Anjinho, right now, I want to tell you that the problem is that the controversy you talked about is going and the CDS stays, and that's bad. It reflects on this, Mrs Deputies, and not in this but in another debate perhaps it may already have a different position. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the conclusion of this debate, we turn to item 6 of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 322 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Guilherme Basto and others, against the closure of the Viana Shipyards, in conjunction with draft resolutions 1218 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the process of sub-concession of the Viana do Castelo Shipyards and their reintegration into the business sector of the State as well as the defence of jobs ( PCP ) and 1219 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Return of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo to the public sector ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP starts by greeting the petitioners, the workers, the former workers and the population of Viana do Castelo, who throughout all these years have fought and resisted so that the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo remained in the public sphere. Since the beginning of this legislature this PSD/CDS-PP government has clearly shown what were the intentions it had for the Viana del Castelo Shipkeepers : to dismantle, destroy and privatize. By failing to privatize, the government set in motion a scenario to lead to the dismantling and destruction of the Viana do Castelo Naval Shipkeepers. It is important to say here that there are three fundamental milestones which have the nature of this government and this majority PSD / CDS-PP and which have led to the end of the sub-concession process: the failure to comply with the contract of asphalt vessels with Venezuela ; the non-contracting and non-compliance with the construction of ocean patrol vessels (NPO) ; and, finally, the alleged state aid which has never been proved by the European Commission to date. So, Mr. President and Mr. Members, what the CFP proposes today, like what it has always proposed, is that the government reverse this process and enable this company, which is fundamental to the country and to the region of Viana do Castelo. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u242	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u243	Mr. President and Mr. Members: First, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Greens, thousands of petitioners who, with all opportunity and justice, rise against the closure of the Viana do Castelo Naval Shipkeepers. Then I wanted to ask how a company with the size, prestige and importance of the Estaleiros de Viana had for the region of Upper Mininho and for the economy of the country reaches the point where it arrived. In our view, the causes are two and are in view of everyone: on the one hand, the lack of investment on the part of the various governments, including the current one ; and on the other hand, the fact that the various administrations that passed through the Estaleiros did not show great willingness to seek solutions. That is to say, it has failed to provide the government with a political will to ensure the economic viability of the Estaleiros; it has failed to provide the Government with political will so that the Estaleiros could carry out their order portfolio, which exceeded EUR 500 million; it has failed to provide for the financial conditions for the Estaleiros to move forward with the construction of already contracted ships; it has failed to provide the Government with a political will for the Estaleiros to be able to save a EUR 128 million deal on the contract for the construction of two asphalt vessels commissioned by a state company in Venezuela, which was already formalised and of which the Estaleiros also received an advance; and it has also failed the political will of the Government when in 2012 the Minister of National Defence cancelled the order of NPOs, which would allow the Estaleiros to receive EUR 57 million in 2013 and EUR 38 million in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u244	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u245	On the other hand, the Government says that the privatisation of the shipyards will contribute to the development of the shipbuilding and repair sector and to effective and balanced competition of the sector. But this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the usual talk, because the government well knows that the privatization of industrial enterprises has, in most cases, led to their dismantling, with all the consequences that it has represented for our economy, for the country and also for unemployment. Thus, the Greens, following the objectives of the petitioners, present a legislative initiative that meets the purposes expressed in the petition we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u246	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the subscribers of this petition, who, concerned with the maintenance of jobs and the naval activity in Viana do Castelo, sent us, a year ago, this petition for appreciation. I would also like to congratulate Mr Nuno Sá Costa on his good work in monitoring the petition. This petition was signed and entered into Parliament before the signing of the concession contract, after a transparent and free public tender which defended the interests of the State and the region, and before the start of the new business last May, i.e. eight months ago. Let us see, then, what has happened in this very short space of time. In just eight months, 135 workers have already been admitted to direct jobs, outside the indirect,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u248	What about the 400?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u249	... of which 102 come from the old naval company. There is also a business commitment to achieve, in a very short time, more than 400 jobs in Viana, which will be one of the trademarks of the assigned business. In just eight months, 22 ships have already been repaired at the Naval Station,... [[22!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u250	... as many as had been repaired in the previous three years. In just eight months, it was guaranteed the construction of two new ships for the Douro Azul group, relaunching and thus rebirth the shipbuilding in Viana do Castelo. Therefore, what in terms of workers and business, the Social Democratic Party and the Government have always said so far, have done very well. After eight months, it is legitimate, but extemporaneous, the discussion of this petition, since it is prior to the rebirth of the shipbuilding that happened in May last. What is no longer legitimate, Mrs. Member, but only ideological, is the presentation this week by the Portuguese Communist Party and by the Greens of the draft resolutions that we now appreciate. After only eight months of the new private activity and after almost a decade when the State and taxpayers took over EUR 100 million of losses, it is not possible to bring today to plenary a draft resolution of the type « request for the nationalisation of the company ». [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] And what are the reasons? Does the Communist Party want the former workers, many of whom are already working, to return their compensation? Does the Communist Party want the naval business to be harmed again and that it is the State to stand in a single competitive market logic?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u251	You've finished the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u252	Is the Communist Party against the Government's will to rebuild two ocean patrol vessels for Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u253	What a lack of seriousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u254	Is it against the possibility that they are built in Viana do Castelo? Yes, it was good for the Communist Party, but also for the Socialist Party and its president of the Municipal Chamber in Viana do Castelo and for all those who were harrowing the worst to take their mistake today, because at the time they decreed the death of the activity and this, today, is relaunched.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u255	You've finished the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u256	I will finish, Mr. President. Leave the Starkeeper alone. Let this new company consolidate and grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u257	Don't get in the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u258	Let this activity generate value and employment. That's why she exists and that's why we're going to work too. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u259	Mr Jorge Fão, of the Socialist Party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have just heard Mr. Eduardo Teixeira and I remember - that during the election campaign for the 2011 legislative elections the candidates of the PSD and the CDS and, above all, the candidates for deputies by the electoral circle of Viana do Castelo visited the Naval Estaleiros, met with the Committee of Workers, met with the Administration and took oaths of faith that they would effectively recover that organization and keep in activity the Naval Estaleiros of Viana do Castelo. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence. All speakers have the right to be heard with consideration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u262	Mr President, I understand that they may be a little agitated, but there is no problem. But, past the elections, this commitment was immediately forgotten and this will and this profession of faith of PSD candidates was clearly thwarted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u263	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u264	The Minister of Defence appointed for this purpose, Aguiar Branco, a man from the North, quickly turned his back on that problem, which even was from his region, a problem from the North, and at least became an elitist man in relation to this matter and clearly of great liberal extremism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u265	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u266	Therefore, the only thing that immediately decided, without knowing the essence of the problem, was to make a profession of faith closing the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo, until June 2011. That is why — it should be remembered here — he did not make any effort to recover that company, to study the possibility of its viability and its maintenance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u267	What about the little diner? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u268	He despised the 70 years of history of that organization, despised knowledge, competence, know-how of shipbuilding, did not want to know strictly nothing of the social and economic impacts of that region with the closure, used EUR 30 million to send 600 workers home, sponsored to spend about EUR 250-300 million to close the shipyards and, finally, sponsored, recently, that shameful business of selling a ship that cost EUR 40 million for EUR 8 million. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I understand your agitation, but in May 2014 the Minister of Defence decided to close the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. The Socialist Party, in the defence of the interests of the region of Upper Mininho and the Country, criticized and fought that decision for three years with all the political means that were within its reach.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u269	Mr. Deputies, you've finished your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u270	I will finish, Mr. President. For this reason and for a matter of consistency, we are, as it is natural, in accordance with the main object of this petition, which is against the closure of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo, but something different are these draft resolutions scheduled for drag, extemporaneous, unrealistic initiatives and which, in the current context, are hardly possible to be put into practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u271	The mask has fallen to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u272	Here is our position in favour of this petition, but these initiatives are unrealistic and extemporaneous right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u273	This argument is worth as much as the asphalter that was to be concluded!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u274	Mr Abel Baptista, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by quoting a few words in the petition. As to: « The announcement made by the Minister of Defence Aguiar Branco of the closure of the ENVCs represents a fully prepared crime». Now, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I assume that this petition is referred to in a crime in a political sense and not in a legal sense, because it does not exist legally. But in a political sense, I ask: was it not a crime that the liability of EUR 250 million of the Estaleiros had to be paid by all the national taxpayers? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Was it not a crime for shipbuilding in Viana do Castelo 13 ships to accumulate a damage of EUR 100 million between 2006 and 2011?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u276	That's a crime!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u277	Isn't this a crime? Was it not a crime for those Estaleiros not to have economic viability taking into account the business model that was established—was it recognised by all that it could not be a company linked to public procurement? Isn't this a crime? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the solution presented was not that of dismissal of workers from the Viana do Castelo Shipyards, but that of finding a sub-concession process that would allow the greatest possible number of jobs. After this time, I'm sure this petition wouldn't exist today. In May last year, West Sea took care of that space to continue shipbuilding. The Socialist Party said: « They will finish the shipbuilding in Viana do Castelo! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No, it is there and today it is known—and it is not a secret of state, nor is it privileged information—that have been signed, days ago, contracts for the construction of ships. I can tell whom: for the Blue Gold — EUR 12 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u278	They've been sabotaging the shipyards!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u279	In six months, 22 ships were repaired in Viana do Castelo — EUR 4 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u280	Mr. Deputy, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u281	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Members, of the 609 workers of the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros, 597 signed the company agreement and of the 597, today, 92 are working in the new company. of the 135 workers who are in the new company, almost all are from Viana do Castelo, only 16 are not from the region. But it also doesn't come bad any that come from outside. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have been fired, of the 609 workers, 226 have direct access to the reform and West Sea has committed itself, in the medium term, to employ 400 workers. At this rate, it will succeed very quickly. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u282	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The history of the Naval Estaleiros of Viana do Castelo is not yet all told. It's been eight months and even for what you guys are doing. Members of the PSD and the CDS said regarding the volume of repairs, there is a finding that we have to do: the previous management was incompetent and, worse than that, had the convience of the Minister of Defense...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u284	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u285	...to sabotage and crush a national company. That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u286	I didn't have to, because I've been spatified for a long time! Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u287	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth saying here that when it is public it is bad and when it is private it is good, deresponsible what was the attitude of the mismanagement and the convivence of the Minister of Defence with that mismanagement. You have proposed — this is a 'film' we have seen in many companies — and then come here to say that when it is private it is good. There is no State incompetence in holding a company, there is incompetence of governments that purposely want to share these same companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u288	It was 20 years of damage!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u289	Obviously, the petition was made in a context other than what exists today. However, its object makes sense and the petitioners defend, like us, that this company should never have left the sphere of the State. So we had a government that wanted to nurture this company and the region, so we had a government that could manage a company that should be of the State, by its characteristics and even by the national strategic interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u290	Although I do not have much time, I have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz. You can make the best of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It was clear at the end of the debate that for the majority — for the PSD and for the CDS-PP — it does not matter the future of that region. It is enough for them to make a few small promises, only one hundred and few workers, because what is there are advertisements, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! What West Sea does is ads and nothing concrete! But it is important to make it clear here that the situation at which the Viana de Castelo Shipyards arrived results from the ideological options of this government, of this majority,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u292	...because what this government did for two and a half years was to force the paralysis of that company.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u293	The damage is 20 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u294	They speak today of an order for the new company of an NPO, but, before, what they did was to prevent the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo from making that order.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u295	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u296	This is the ideological option of the Government and this majority, an option against the public, against the business sector of the State. But it also dropped the mask to the PS. The PS criticizes the parties of the majority, but when you have a proposal to reverse the process, nothing does. Here we see that the PS is in fact not an alternative to right-wing policy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-21.u297	Mrs. Members, the assessment of petition No 322 / XII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 1218 and 1219 / XII ( 4. ( a ), I inform you that the next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow 22, from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. on the following agenda: political statements; joint assessment, in general, of the proposals of lein. 269 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Military Infrastructure Programming Act and 270 / XII ( 4. (a) — Approves the Military Programming Act; and, like the Members. Members know, at the end of the debate, that we will have a regular vote, since there will be no plenary meeting on Friday. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 5 minutes.]]
