ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we get on the agenda, I will ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is to announce that the Socialist Party withdrew draft resolutions Nos 1288 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government of the Republic review the cost terms of the loan associated with PAEF-RAM in order to balance the interest charged to RAM with the interest obtained by the Portuguese public dividend on the market ( PS ) and 729 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently initiate the negotiation process of the revision of PAEF-RAM with the Regional Government of Madeira ( PS ) and draft law No 59 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Article 72 is amended. the -A of Law No 49 / 2011 of 17 September and approves an extraordinary rate on incomes subject to IRS, taken in 2011, amending the IRS Code approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, because this initiative is damaged. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the first item on the agenda which, as you all know, consists in the re-evaluation of Decree No 320 / XII — Second amendment to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September, which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation for private copy, together with petition No 427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Rui Miguel Silva Seabra and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to prevent the adoption of Bill No 246 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ), which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation relating to private copy. The Bureau records the inscriptions of Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt, PSD, and Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of PS. For an intervention, Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we appreciate a sensitive issue that has generated a lot of debate in this Parliament. We had two working groups especially dedicated to these matters to hearing and discussing proposals that were presented to this House : in 2012 presented by the Socialist Party and withdrawn by the Socialist Party itself, and in 2014 a proposal of three diplomas submitted by the Government. The subject we are discussing today is complementary to two diplomas which have been promulgated by the President of the Republic. We always assumed that the package of measures did not allow discussion without being together, because it raised the debate and for the first time we had a significant set of matters that were inextricable from each other.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u6	Now, recently, Mr President has returned to this House one of the decrees of this package. We will lay the groundwork that it has provided and that we consider legitimate. We have been careful to review the most recent deliberations of the European Court of Justice, which are within the meaning of the legislation we are reviewing today, where it is clearly assumed that it is due to compensation to rightholders and that it is legitimate that this compensation should be based on these new supports. It is therefore important not to delay updating this law in terms of support, but it is also no less important that Portugal can be more active and vigilant in matters related to the digital economy. The majority, in the field of specialty, introduced amendments to the various diplomas which we have examined together and which, I reaffirm, are complementary, exactly with the concern expressed by Mr President. in this diploma, for which in particular Mr President has asked us to reconsider, we have introduced an amendment which requires the table, and the relevant law, to be reviewed every two years. We believe, as is expressed in Mr President's concern, that these areas must be constantly monitored in view of the dynamics that the sector creates and that they are manifestly incompatible with 11-year delays.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u8	The development of Community legislation expressly determines that, since the existence of an exception to the right of reproduction is legal, the so-called 'private copy' may only occur if there is fair compensation for rightholders. Recently, the judgment of the Court of Justice of 5 March clearly reaffirmed it. It understands European jurisprudence, such as the legislation we review, that the legal good that protects itself is not the support of its disclosure, but rather its content, clearly assuming once again that there is injury to the creators and establishing that, regardless of the future design, the fruit of the dynamics generated, each State is competent to decide on the means of support in which the rate should affect. The work carried out in the field of specialty was further developed. We have heard all those concerned and representatives of the petitioners, having received various contributions. We had the opportunity to debate with all of us, to clarify and to raise questions. When we look at the various perspectives, the various sensibilities, given the interconnections of diplomas, we are of the opinion that the reasons invoked are important, but do not question the integrity of this diploma or its current viability, but are, however, important alerts to Parliament's most active involvement in this era of exponential digital evolution. In a final phase, I use it to greet the authors here. I believe that no representative of the petitioners is present, but also, as is the first intervention, I am now taking advantage of them to greet them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u9	I'm asking the ladies. Members to respect regiment times. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have the opportunity to re-appreciate the diploma relating to private copy and my first note, since it is a joint debate either of the re-evaluation of the decision of the President of the Republic or of the petition is also to underline what we have said about the petition itself. Indeed, it is necessary to restate the way in which petitions are processed, taking into account that the useful effect of this petition will exist only because the President of the Republic has requested the re-evaluation of the diploma. If this had not happened, a request for the non-approval of the diploma would not have been appreciated by the House in good time. Therefore, despite the need to have a criterion of organization and ordering the sequence of petitions, for situations in which manifestly there is a relevant timetable for discussion in the plenary of the petitions, it should be restated. Indeed, you are. The petitioners raised a number of objections concerning the approval of the diploma, in particular the existence of the rate itself, in which the petitioners understood that it is a mechanism which is in use for Europe outside and which would make no sense to introduce the countercycle or, at least, to extend countercycle. They also reflect possible negative consequences of approval, in particular a tendency for citizens to stop buying the equipment in question, from being able to have a high dissatisfaction with the increase of another fee to be charged, as well as the existence of potential inconsistencies between the burden of users and their own respect for compliance with copyright legislation. In other words, they understood the petitioners that there could be a perverse effect of the legislation's own approval, such as by internalizing the idea that it would address problems related to piracy. In addition to these aspects, the petitioners also referred to problems relating to the own constitutionality of the fee, a matter in which, in the analysis of the petition, there was also an opportunity to examine, bearing in mind that this question, at least, would not appear to be put, until the Constitutional Court has already appreciated, in the past, the existence of the contribution to this effect. It is true that it was not for the digital universe, but the legal structure is precisely the same and therefore there would be no problem of constitutionality. Having come to this point, with several elements that can and should be considered in the context of the discussion, we also have on the table the veto of the President of the Republic. Indeed, there is only one point that should be emphasized: the narrative and the history of this bill is not entirely without participation and debate; on the contrary, that is the point in which, I think, the President of the Republic has not seen with due attention what was Parliamentary work. As Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt pointed out, there were two working groups, two legislative initiatives, a broad capacity for participation and intervention of the various interests in the presence. Despite this small misunderstanding with the petition, it is true that there were several times when the documents sent by the petitioners themselves were taken into account in the assessment of the diploma. If there has been something that has mobilized up to the social networks, which has mobilized the public debate, it has certainly been this diploma and I think that the addiction it will suffer, primarily, will not be the lack of debate and enlargement. however, there are issues that can and should be considered by Parliament, once the diploma has returned to this House. The Socialist Party was not satisfied with the final version, we did not follow the favourable vote, we abstained in the overall final vote. Therefore, once again opening up this path by means of the devolution, without promulgation, of the diploma, it is necessary to verify what can be worked out in the diploma of the private copy so that the main objectives, which are to find a way to compensate those who are the producers of the cultural goods and who, by changing the technological landscape, have had an added difficulty in maintaining efficiently producing cultural goods, are cautious. We cannot defuse this need, we must find a solution that is satisfactory and that does not, in any way, burden the rest. As we said, we did not follow the initiative at the time, but we always participate constructively and always had the opportunity to make proposals for amendments. The Socialist Party will maintain its full openness and readiness to find a solution that is appropriate and that will enable it to respond to an area on which this discussion has been a long way off. There is therefore a pressing need for a definitive solution and the Socialist Party is, of course, available to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u11	I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members who are too much of an intervention time. I asked them to respect regiment time. For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As an introduction, let me begin by greeting the petitioners whose petition and concerns in it are also today the subject of discussion, who, following the veto of the President of the Republic, have gained a renewed update. At the same time, I would also like to reaffirm in this House our full respect for the decision taken, an institutional respect, as is the obligation of all parliamentary groups, but also, and we do not hesitate to say it, a respect for the doubts which support it. It is not new that some of these doubts have accompanied the parliamentary bench of the CDS throughout the legislative process. I would point out two: European asymmetries in terms of legislation on the subject, since there is no common regulation, and the difficulty in reconciling the need to legislate with the unstoppable evolution of technology. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if these doubts do not have easy answers, it is up to us to find the possible ones. As for the first, the absence of common regulation is undoubtedly a challenge for Europe, but that cannot be why the national parliaments stop legislating on this matter; on the contrary, there is no common regulation, it is precisely for the states and national parliaments to legislate and safeguard the rights in question. As for the second question, on the possibility of legislation being overcome by technological developments, we must assume that we are faced with inevitability. It is the natural condition of the legislation that covers technology. Today, tomorrow or later, in the country or in Europe, technological innovation will always pose new and unpredictable challenges. It is up to legislators to be able to respond at every moment and in every context, even if they admit their eventual drawback in the near future. That is, our answer to these doubts is part of an objective analysis of reality. in the law of the private copy we recognize that, predictably, depending on European regulation to take place, when it occurs — this debate is not today — or technological evolution, it may be the subject of changes, but this does not prevent its current need. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the preamble of this law is recognised, it is long and complex and goes far beyond the issue of tariffs. Recognized by the need for a new, long legislative framework, taking into account the whole process underlying it from various working groups, and complex because it is not an isolated initiative, but an integrated diploma in the context of three diplomas which, in the national and European areas, raise numerous questions of response, not always certain. In view of the need to update and also to honour the commitment, the Government therefore opted in the most common way in the context of the transposition of the Directive, by doing so, in a much smoother manner in relation to past initiatives, such as the Socialist Party, which posed far greater problems of proportionality. And I conclude by saying that the final drafting of the law of the private copy resulted in a laborious commitment effort, as can be seen from the various involved in the specialized work. We are well aware of the complexity of the issues and of the doubts which we have also been accompanying, but it cannot be because we are dealing with a controversial and complex matter which must no longer deserve an adequate investment on our part. We are confident that the commitment effort has allowed adequate solutions and solutions to these doubts to be found and that the contributions of the CDS in the field of expertise have greatly enabled to improve this law. That is why, regardless of the evolution and debate that will certainly continue to take place today, when the values and rights in question are weighted and because we cannot and should not delay this process, we believe that the law is fulfilling its purposes. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u13	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the more than 8,000 petitioners who have submitted a petition to the Assembly of the Republic so that the House will not approve, as has been submitted, the bill called 'private copy'. In addition, we note this irony : the CFP, at the time of the entry of this petition, proposed in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, that the debate on the proposed law did not take place in an untiring manner of this petition and of the concerns of the petitioners, most of whom did not so want, imposed a hasty discussion and without taking into account the reflection of the petitioners and here the message of the President of the Republic ends up causing the debate, after all, to take place on the same day. Mrs. Members, the CFP maintains on this occasion exactly the same as it has been saying about the private copy of the proposal submitted by the Government, as it has already said about the proposal which had been made before by the Socialist Party and which, curiously, at that time, has deserved so many reservations by the PSD and the CDS. The solutions presented by the private copy may have already been useful, may have been appropriate at a certain time in history; today, they are absolutely exceeded. For this reason, they generate injustices in their application. Firstly, because the statement about the justification of the fees created by private copy, in practice, means that citizens will be forced to pay a fee for something they cannot do. Citizens will be forced to pay a fee so they can make a copy that the law prohibits. It is true that this is not the copy that the law provides, but it is by this copy that you are. PSD and CDS members try to justify this rate. at the same time, it is unfair, because it separates populations from access to culture, increasing prices and creating even more difficulties in access to culture and, in a certain way, generalizes uses of devices and instruments that may be several of those for which private copy makes believe. There is an alternative solution, which the CFP has already proposed several times in this House of the Republic. Sharing is not a crime and the CFP understands and proposes that, if sharing is disciplined and regulated and if authors and holders of copyright and related rights are paid by sharing by those who, in fact, profit from sharing, which are essentially Internet service providers, then it is possible to have a situation in which citizens, without having increased costs, can share works of art, even if protected by law, and authors can be paid for sharing and using such works. The option is simple: or we insist on this law against culture, against citizens, the pretext of defending copyright, when, in fact, we are only getting stuck in a situation that is obsolete, or we reward the authors for sharing, which is inevitable, which is already done and is not a crime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u15	I now give the floor, for an intervention, to the Left Block. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to begin by saying hello to the petitioners and by regretting the delay with which this petition is appreciated. The Left Block also understands that the petition should have been discussed at the time when the law was discussed. The mechanisms to support cultural creation involve public policies, involve public budgets, imply everything that this government has just not done, the same government that ended, in fact, with the Ministry of Culture. And we see ourselves in a situation in which, in the chain of creation of value, associated with artistic creation, authors and interpreters are often the least received, and that makes no sense. It does not make sense that companies in the cultural industry, large net operators gain more than authors and interpreters with the cultural products they create, without contributing and without paying those same authors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u17	The mechanism created by this law is, however, ineffective, wrong and unjust. It places creators against consumers and citizens, taxing each user, making it difficult to access culture, and maintaining illegal sharing as a crime, in a restrictive logic of culture sharing, while not putting the profits of companies to support creation, which would be the only way to ensure that more content can be accessible to everyone. In fact, the Government has made it difficult to collect copyright and related rights in another law. This law does not take into account that storage capacity is not necessarily shared by other cultural products, it may be of its own content; it does not take into account the wide universe of authors, the public domain, the Creative Commons ; it does not take into account that some countries have repealed these rates, finding more fair ways to finance the culture and more effective ways to charge copyright and related rights; and it relies on the true password to tax with one law what it has forbidden with another. We therefore believe that this opportunity should be taken by the Assembly of the Republic to review this law and to find mechanisms for supporting culture that are also ways to ensure its access to the greater number of people and to ensure the culture of sharing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u18	We have no more entries on the table and there are no time available either. Mrs. Members, we conclude here the re-evaluation of Decree No 320 / XII, together with petition No 427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) both relating to private copying. We turn to agenda item 2, which consists of an assessment of the report of the Committee of Parliamentary Inquiry into the Management of BES and the Holy Spirit Group on the Process leading to the Implementation of the Resolution Action and its Consequences, in particular on the Developments and Options relating to GHG, BES and the New Bank. I shall first give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Parliamentary Inquiry, Mr Fernando Negrão, which will be followed by the speeches of the rapporteur and of each parliamentary group. It offers every 5 minutes. The President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, Mr Fernando Negrão, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have fulfilled the mandate given to us by this House, I have fulfilled it in full and allow me some boldness to say that I do so well. It was crucial for the work of the Commission that all those involved in it were involved, but allow me, Madam President, to highlight, firstly, the Councillors, officials of the Assembly of the Republic, and the exemplary work carried out by all the Members. Members who constituted this Commission. For all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, what a compliment and a greeting to the people of the honourable Members. Members Carlos Abreu Amorim, Pedro Nuno Santos, Cecilia Meireles, Miguel Tiago, Mariana Mortágua and Pedro Saraiva. [[General applause.]] How lucky I was to have worked with VV. For example, not only those I quoted but all those who were part of this Commission. The work carried out by this Commission was clear in the statement of separation of powers. Parliament does not pursue, because the only democratically accepted persecution is criminal persecution, which is not the responsibility of Parliament, but of the Public Prosecutor and, nevertheless, in a set of very precise rules that constitute the Code of Criminal Procedure. Parliament does not judge, because this competence rests solely with the courts, which enjoy independence from all other powers. Without that independence, there would be no judicial power. We have affirmed and reaffirmed this reality, because it is up to Parliament to give Portuguese serious and clear information about one of the most significant events in the country's financial history. And it did so in record time, and we must highlight here the rigorous work of dozens of journalists who followed the Commission's work on a permanent basis. Parliament is also responsible for the legislative initiative to create mechanisms to strengthen supervision, regulation and financial and banking supervision. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proof that we did well was that many Portuguese have followed the successive auditions that have been held over the past six months, and that some of them have interacted with us through letters, e-mails, where they made suggestions, criticized, but also praised. From a certain point of view, reading these messages became part of my daily work. My and our sincere thanks for all these invaluable contributions. It proves that we have done well, too, that we can say that the law governing the functioning of parliamentary committees of inquiry is a good law and we have today, and at our request, an opinion of the Consultative Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic clarifying the scope of some of its most sensitive rules. Improvements are always welcome, but the determinant is the clear and common will to see the truth of the facts clarified, since without that will there is no law that resists. And I think that was well demonstrated. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you, Madam President, for your continued support for the work of this Commission. And I end up saying only: it was worth it! [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Fernando Negrão, for the work you have done in the Commission. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Pedro Saraiva, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am again speaking in this plenary, with the feeling that I have essentially and solely fulfilled my obligation to do what this House of Democracy has asked me to do: prepare a report, as rapporteur. First responsible, therefore, for the 14,500 lines of a document that, as someone wrote, "presents facts, clears up responsibilities and points out paths". It seeks to be the faithful documentary memory of the work carried out over six months by this Parliamentary Inquiry Committee. It covers the different relevant layers of the problem, with an analysis that sought to be fair and duly balanced, affecting the Espírito Santo Group, but which also includes auditors, supervisors, government and society in general, as well as presenting concrete suggestions to improve the quality and confidence of the financial system, divided by four axes of intervention. In view of the time available, and being its public content, I spare myself here to express them in greater detail. They are, above all, the result of a collective effort. I therefore associate myself with the wise words of thanks from our President, limiting me, in this context, to stress, on the one hand, the competent, sensible, effective and intelligent form as he himself conducted all the work and the solid team that I have formed with him at different times and on the other hand the spirit of assistance, assumed from the first hour between all the Members, with particular emphasis on the frank interactions he had with the various Coordinators. Only through these and other contributions has it been possible to reach a report which seeks not to undermine the work of the Commission. when running the keyboard, there were multiple segments of potential readers I thought about, but one in particular was always present, corresponding to all those who were injured by the collapse of the Espírito Santo Group, including its thousands of workers. People without any responsibility in the event, but who have seen or are still faced with particularly sensitive situations from a personal and professional point of view. Through an intense and genuine dialogue, it was thus possible to build the final version of the report, a congregator of broad consensus, reflected in its overall final vote, with 13 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 2 votes against, but also in the specialty, where : 245 of the 416 pages, including all the facts reached, were adopted unanimously; and the 70 recommendations, which set out defining paths for the transformation and improvement of the financial system, did not have any vote against, the same with 565 of the 592 conclusions presented. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: Each parliamentary committee of inquiry is her and her circumstances. It is thus by definition unique and unrepeatable. Any comparison therefore has to be made with caution and its lessons learned extrapolated with caution. Having made these reservations, there is a set of lessons to be learned from this experience, here referring only to three additional ones: one, certain contradictions speak for themselves; two, certain silences are worth a thousand words; three, democratic patience compensates. This Committee of Inquiry leaves some fond memories. It helped to show how it is possible in this Parliament to make policy based on depth, demand and seriousness: a constructive, consistent, convergent policy made of understanding and evidence; a policy in which one can diverge without attacking, report without sending, converge without pretending;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u23	... a policy without prejudice, where sometimes what has not yet been done is done. Finally, Madam President, saying that in my reading this was the framework in which the rapporteur made me, and much has been done: - it has been true; - it has been reported; - it has been pedagogy; - it has become Parliament; - it has become democracy. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedro Saraiva. I am grateful for the work you have done and, at the same time, I thank all the Members who spoke in the Committee on Parliamentary Inquiry for the work you have done. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The work carried out by the Committee on Parliamentary Inquiry into the Management of BES and GHG and the facts found in this context demonstrate the fairness of the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party for its constitution. Today, the Assembly of the Republic has more detailed and accurate information on the internal functioning of the large economic groups and the Portuguese have been able to observe how private interests are managed and the negative consequences of the monopoly capital domain for the economy, the financial system and the national interest. The works exposed the methods of using credit for their own benefit, practiced by successive administrations of Banco Espírito Santo. It was clear that there was in BES an unwise and harmful management of the interests of the depositors and the State. It was clear that Ricardo Salgado and all the members of the GES High Council as well as the various managers of the Group have responsibilities in this management. But the Committee of Inquiry cannot stay here. We need to go further. The studies have shown that external auditors have been operating for a long time as a bleaching factor for marginal practices or bank mismanagement. They hide the absence of risk assessment and assess false reports by hiding in ignorance, now that the truth is known. The papers found that the inaction of regulators and supervisors exceeded the mere incompetence of this or that Governor of the Banco de Portugal or of that or that President of CMM. It has been proven that the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM did not intervene, they did not use the legal mechanisms, because they were captured by the financial system itself. Not only did the Banco de Portugal act for tibiasa but, essentially, for matricial incapacity, intrinsic to its impossible mission. The limitations of supervision have been exposed and it is possible to say that the Banco de Portugal has not done everything the law allowed it to do, but it is also clear that there are no conditions for the Banco de Portugal to be able to use the mechanisms which the law assigns it. Thus the role of Banco de Portugal was not to guarantee confidence in BES, but to forge confidence in BES, telling the Portuguese that the Bank was solid and robust even when it was known not to be true. Regulators and supervisors are, after all, the lie neoliberalism invented to make us believe in the private bank. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in 1990 and 1991, the Government of Cavaco Silva handed over the tranquility and the BES to the Spirito Santo family, with the support of the then President of the Mário Soares Republic, the process of reconstitution of the power of a monopoly group that the April Revolution had liquidated began. The Commission has shown that the privatization of PT, tranquility and BES, the promiscuity between economic groups and the merger between industrial capital and banking capital are deep causes of what has happened in BES and GES, but it has also shown that this was only possible because the Group maintained close relations with political power, from the fascist dictatorship to its collapse. from relations with the fascist government to the payment of the Durão Barroso scholarships, through the relationship with numerous PS and PSD ministers and the integration of many leaders of these parties into the Group business, such links were always present. The political responsibilities begin with the deepening of the right-wing policy and extend through successive governments that shared with the BES and the numerous framework GES, which fed the Business Group, PPP (public-private partnerships), advice, consulting and privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u26	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u27	No report can conceal these political responsibilities. The report, approved by PS, PSD and CDS and with BE's abstention, does the same: it suggests that the collapse of the Group and Bank results in a crisis of character and moral failure of unscrupulous administrators. I mean, sacrifice a banker to save the image of the private bank. The report, despite the rapporteur's work and his efforts to reach consensus, does not fail to clear up successive governments' responsibilities and leaves out the responsibilities of those applying the financial liberalisation process established in the wake of the Lisbon Strategy, which allows for the generalization of practices that originate and feed the so-called shadow bank where all procedures can go beyond supervision, with the appropriate chance of independent external audits. We can say that the public ownership of the bank alone does not solve the serious problems that still occur in the Portuguese financial system. But it is absolutely essential to recognize and conclude that only with the public ownership and control of the bank can we begin to solve these problems by placing the bank at the service of the people, of production, of the economy and of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u29	The CFP has done everything to clear up the facts, to expose to everyone the leviancy with which the private bank manages Portuguese money for the benefit of the great shareholders and with the support and complacency of governments and supervisors. The CFP proposed the establishment of a technical unit to ascertain the destination of the financial flows that read the Bank and the State, and this proposal was rejected by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u31	The CFP voted against the report, not for what it describes, but for what it shuts down or ignores, even though it has included many proposals for amendments to the CFP. We welcome the work done by Mr Rapporteur, despite the political disagreements. We believe that the report has been enriched by its ability to welcome the criticism and proposals of others. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] The best contribution this Commission could make to democracy would be to show that it is not a hostage to the system. However, PS, PSD and CDS are in fact the political face of the system, and other conclusions would not be expected. As happened with BPN, BPP, Banif and BCP, PS, PSD and CDS promised whenever it would never happen again. The proof that this Commission has not yet created the conditions for this to be true is that, as we speak here, José Maria Ricciardi, one of the major responsible for the problems of BES, remains considered suitable for banking management.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u33	The work of the CFP will continue after the closure of this Commission, with proposals calling for the public control of the bank as a solution and not false solutions that the capitalist system is generating to maintain. The Committee of Inquiry reinforced the conclusions which the CFP has drawn throughout the work: that the stability of the financial system is too important to depend on the good or bad character of the bankers. The Committee of Inquiry, proposed by the CFP, reinforced the need to defend and implement the public control of the bank. It was worth the proposal and the work done. But you can't stay here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u34	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos spoke for a speech by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to make a very special compliment to the Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Fernando Negrão, which was crucial for the Commission to be successful from the beginning to the end. [[PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PCP applause.]] And to Mr rapporteur, Pedro Saraiva, who has achieved what was not possible for many years now, which was the vote in favour of at least the PSD, CDS and PS, in the conclusions of a report. That was the great responsibility of the rapporteur. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Our sense of vote is known and the reasons why I wanted to reaffirm them here. The Socialist Party voted in favour, only—and it is no less—because the report was serious, was well done and was faithful to the truth. In addition, the fact that it integrates much, but almost entirely, of the suggestions that the Socialist Party has made. And perhaps more importantly, by the following: in the framework of cooperation between all parliamentary groups, in which we were able to work throughout the Commission, it was important to strengthen the final report, it was important that the favourable vote should not be reduced to the parties of the majority. That is why, because we want to give this strength, the Socialist Party also joined in the vote in favour of the report. I do not want to say that this decreases the success of the Commission or of the conclusions a different vote from the bloc or the CFP. They well clarified the fundamental reasons why they did not vote in favour, which enriches democracy, enriches the work of the Committee of Inquiry, does not harm. This Committee of Inquiry was very important. Today, we understand better how a bank is administered, how it was administered, in particular, but it also gives us tools to better assess how other banks are administered in Portugal — and now not only in Portugal. It allowed us to understand how customers were deceived at BES, how regulators were deceived, how they managed to camouflage the circuit and the destination of money. They are very important tools today that Parliament and the country have to assess similar problems. But we would also not do our work well if we did not take this opportunity to assess, analyze, examine the action of public institutions because at the end of the day it is in them that we place our trust. Whoever can save us from the bad character of a bank leader or from the lack of ethics of an administrator is the public institutions. The question to Members is not where they were in 2013, when problems began to be evident. The question that Members have to ask is whether, within their competences, they have done their job well. The question that has to be asked to regulators is whether, within their competences, they have done their job well. The Bank of Portugal drew up a strategy that failed, the Banco de Portugal had access to relevant information that did not communicate to the market, the Banco de Portugal decided to negotiate its strategy with Ricardo Salgado and thus gave a negative signal to the other banks, the other bank administrators, saying that it could not comply with the Banco de Portugal, that this would not mean any suspension. Therefore, we would have done wrong if we had not analyzed and scrutinized the action of regulators. These are the ones that can save us when we can no longer trust, when we no longer have confidence in administrators, with whom governs and leads some banking institutions in Portugal. That is why the honourable Members have done their part of their work, and have done so well. But it was also not right at the moment — indeed, the report is clear on this — we will leave out other institutions. We speak of governments, of none in particular or with a certain partisan color, but the truth is that governments have legal responsibilities and powers. It is important to make it clear for the future that any government in Portugal, whether it is a partisan color, must assume and fulfil the powers conferred upon it by law and at no time, as regards financial stability, can hide behind the regulators or their independence. There are powers given by law to governments and they must take a more active attitude in ensuring the stability of the financial system. It is your responsibility and we will hit-CL - so that governments take on and fulfill the responsibilities assigned by law. Now it is our turn, it is Parliament's turn to look at you, to look at the legislation that is produced and to see if there are any amendments that are justified. It is that if it is true that there were things that have been done, that the law allowed and that, perhaps, it should not allow, there is much that has been done that the law did not allow it to be done and that we hope that justice will act more quickly than that which has been revealed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u37	There are things public institutions could have done and failed to do, despite the law allowing them to do. It is now Parliament's turn. On this subject and on the stability of the financial system, Parliament has gained an area that should not be disbursed and, in relation to the amendments we have made, we must rethink Parliament's role in ensuring financial stability. Today, in Portugal, any leader of a bank knows that he has a Parliament prepared, qualified to follow the financial system and Parliament must assume it. The hope of the PS, the desire of the PS, that all players in the financial system know that there is today an attentive Parliament in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u38	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by congratulating all the Members and all the Members. Members of this Commission, as well as Mr President and Mr rapporteur, for the work done. Having said this, I wanted to ask you to accompany me in a small exercise. Imagine that today is not May 8, 2015, but May 8, 2022. Here, as today, we would be discussing the report of the collapse of any large national bank in the same week that the Prime Minister had just presented Ricardo Salgado or Zeinal Bava as an example to follow for his demand, method and globalization. Today, it will look like an unobstructed example, I know, but seven years ago, soon after the collapse of BPN, they also told us that it would be impossible for a Prime Minister to praise Loureiro Days in the same terms. The words of Steps Rabbit are proof that time will all go away if no action is taken and the worst that could happen, Mr. Members, after this Commission, it was all the same. In our view, this Committee of Inquiry had three purposes: to make the promotion and collapse of the largest national group transparent to citizens; to assess the functioning of the institutions that have allowed the same fall by action or omission; and to ensure that the knowledge we have today is used to change the rules and the functioning of the financial system accordingly. Let's start with the first point. Today it is almost impossible to find a person who has never heard of GES or commercial paper. It has never been exposed in such a cruel way how it works and moves the economic and financial elite in this country. The Holy Spirit empire, praised years by its business vision, was, after all, a « giant with feet of clay». The family organization hid the mediocrity of management, as well as the complexity of its mascara structure failed businesses and delayed the imminent bankruptcy. The complexity and opacity of financial structures has become an end in itself. Cross-funding schemes, fiscal engineering, obscure money, uncontrolled credit policies, flight to supervisors... This business model—which is, in fact, the financial mode of our days—has not prospered alone; it has been nourished by promiscuity with the political and business sector. The BES is not the GES, they told us. But BES was a shareholder of PT, which lent 900 million to GES. BES was not the GES, but BES sold to its customers 1800 million GES debt. The BES was not the GES, but it was the BES that the Angolan GES arm owed money. BES was the GES because the law never prevented a confusion that the Banco de Portugal did not know or wanted to undo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u41	The Banco de Portugal, in November 2013, takes note of irregularities in the accounts of the Espírito Santo Group. That was the moment Carlos Costa should have moved Ricardo Salgado from BES. But he didn't. Instead, he spent many months in a false « iron arm ». With this kindness, the supervisor created the conditions for subsequent violations of the Group's armor. BES never stopped being GES. Meanwhile, it took time to communicate what he knew to CMVM. The passivity of Banco de Portugal allowed him to circulate, for months, the commercial role of a group that the regulator knew was almost bankrupt. At the time of the bank resolution the Banco de Portugal failed again by telling customers that the provision associated with these securities had moved from BES to the New Bank. As if it were not enough, the country witnessed the unbelievable moment when a television commentator, specialist, in fact, on leaks of information from the Council of Ministers, first of all announced the banking resolution, solemnly confirmed 24 hours later by Governor Carlos Costa. In all this process, the Government has chosen Banco de Portugal as a shield and as a weapon the repeated guarantee that we would not be called to pay for the mistakes of a private group this time. It is difficult to believe that the government has never become aware of or participated in the intervention of BES. But if what he says is factual, then the alienation and disinterest towards the fate of the largest Portuguese group is truly irresponsible. Either way, we'll pay. Whether by the share of the General Deposit Box in the Resolution Fund, by the deferred tax assets complexes, by the risk of litigation or by the private bank's hypothesis not to assume the potential injury to the sale of the New Bank. We'll pay, like, in fact, we'll always pay. in the last seven years, we are going on six financial scandals, always solved with direct or indirect intervention of public money. The reality has shown us, in the harshest way, that the bank is too important to be left in the hands of the bankers. Mrs. Members, who have arrived here, there are two ways of looking at what has happened in the bank: we find, as several parties here present, that it is all a matter of ethics and good practice, that none of this would have happened if Ricardo Salgado was not Ricardo Salgado, if Oliveira Costa was not Oliveira Costa, if João Rendeiro was not João Rendeiro. I am sorry, but we do not align ourselves with the chorus of denial, which refuses to see the problem as it exists and which has become evident throughout this Committee of Inquiry: a leveraged banking system, indebted and which only survives with sporadic state resuscitations, an opaque banking system, impossible to scrutinize, impossible to control. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to appeal to ethics or to give more powers to supervisors. For these reasons, it is necessary to limit the action of the bank, tighten the mesh of regulation—and in this sense the Block has already put forward proposals—but also, in addition, it is necessary to redirect this action to the strategic functions that the bank must have and ensure its effective public and democratic control. In short, make it an instrument for the benefit of the economy and society. But so that this objective can be met, so that the bank can in fact carry out its purpose, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say that not any Salgado has fallen into disgrace, it is even necessary to lose the fear of all the 'owners of this all'! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u42	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are many reasons for voting in favour of the CDS in this report. The first is that this is, in fact, a report on facts rather than on convictions, opinions or possibilities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u44	The fact is that when we look at facts, we look at alternatives and the report is very clear and express to look at this decision as an alternative to other concrete ones. Of course, many criticisms have been heard in the resolution decision, but I have not heard anyone say that there was any possible decision to safeguard the taxpayer any more. this time—it is good to say — unlike what happened in BPN, the account was not for the taxpayer...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u46	... and the report leaves it quite expressed in the analysis of alternatives. In fact, it is not by chance that, even among those who criticized the decision, very few were able to say that they preferred a concrete alternative and, at the end of the Commission, we have already discussed more subalternative than nationalisation or public or private capitalisation. The report also states that, of the facts which it was possible to ascertain, there are two important questions for which we cannot fully know the answer. The first concerns the question which has been asked since the first day of the Commission, which is to know where BES money was for BESA. Today, we know a lot more about it, but the truth is, we still don't know for sure. The second question has to do with the role of the troika and we could not understand whether, in the analysis of the sustainability of the financial system, which was one of the pillars of the Portuguese program, the troika managed to understand what was going on in BES and why.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u48	Secondly, this is a report which does not exempt itself from assigning responsibilities and giving degrees and degrees to that responsibility. It makes clear that the first ones responsible for what happened in the Holy Spirit Group are precisely their administration and will certainly remain for the memory of Parliament the absolutely embarrassing episodes that we live from administrators who not only claimed to know all the management decisions of their group as they stated even, in one case, to know the social object of the company they administered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u49	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u51	With regard to the auditors, the vision is very critical and, of course, it will also be for history the cartoon episode of the president of an auditor to say that he did not know what was going on in another auditor from another country that he himself was also president.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u53	from this point of view, the report is not exempt until it makes very concrete recommendations regarding this activity. Thirdly, supervisory responsibilities have not yet come to the side of the report, quite the contrary. on the issue of linkage between supervisors — the Banco de Portugal is very much spoken, but the CDS also does not forget the other two supervisors, the CMVM and the Institute of Insurance of Portugal — it is clear that the articulation, which is a legal obligation, for which there is a legally constituted body, purely and simply did not happen. What is happening in November and December 2013 is that we have a supervisor, the CMVM, to do a face-to-face monitoring action in relation to the commercial role of ESI that was being sold and that concludes, moreover, that nothing irregular happened, when today we know that something was happening very irregular, and at the same time we have another supervisor, the Banco de Portugal, namely that the accounts of this company do not correspond to the truth and plan to ban that same commercial paper. We will never know, if these supervisors had spoken, as the law commands, whether what happened later with the marketing of commercial paper could or could not have been avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u55	But the simple hypothesis of doubt exists is sufficient to conclude that the joint did not work. In other matters too, the report points out important cases and factors, such as the time lost in replacing the administration of Banco Espírito Santo. I understand the doubt between discussing a case in the public square and questioning the Bank's credibility and, in this sense, adopting a strategy of moral persuasion or, on the contrary, making a decision for which the law gives power to the Banco de Portugal. however, it should be said that we had the two errors and the two disadvantages together. We had the lost time of the strategy of moral persuasion and we also had weeks of discussion in the public square, which did much to discredit the Bank and trust in the Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u57	Thirdly, this is a report that draws true conclusions and makes concrete recommendations. It does not fall into simple solutions for concrete problems, it does not fall into the temptation to want everything to ban, solving one problem and creating another very much worse, but, yes, it makes concrete recommendations on two fundamental issues. First, it establishes stricter measures for branches and subsidiaries. In fact, as has happened in BPN and now happened with BES Angola, it is clear that the existence of branches has to change into much more stringent rules than those it has, especially with regard to transfers there. Secondly, for the auditors, the choice of auditors by an independent entity — the report proposes the Banco de Portugal — is a measure that the CDS has already proposed in the report of the committee of inquiry to BPN and, therefore, it is happy that we see it again. Finally, I would like to thank all the honourable Members. Members, particularly the President of the Commission and the rapporteur, for the enormous effort and the manner in which it has been carried out. I believe that the form often does not correspond to the substance, but this time the form corresponded and helped to make the substance run in the best way, as I think everyone will recognize. The consensus effort made by the rapporteur, together with all the parliamentary groups, is always admirable. We understand that different votes correspond to a different ideological vision, which defends the absence of private bank and the absolute statization of the entire bank. It is, of course, a vision that the CDS, PSD and PS cannot follow. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u58	The CDS already speaks for PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u59	It's a consensus effort!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u60	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There have been few times in this Parliament, especially in these difficult years that we have gone through, a parliamentary work that would collect unanimity in its diagnosis. This Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry was successful. It was intense but fruitful work. It was six months in which everyone—but everyone! — Members and all parliamentary groups did their best. They had a common heading: to ascertain the relevant facts and to break with the populist langue that says that the committees of inquiry have no use, not neglecting any opportunity, at least, to deprive parliamentary work and the very heart of democracy. The main conclusion that this was not the case in the report, which was admirable and approved in the Committee of Inquiry; the main conclusion that I wanted to draw, for this to happen, is that, in fact, people are important. Many Members of this Committee of Inquiry were in a position to be chairman of this committee, but I think we all have a firm conviction today that if the President were another than Mr Fernando Negrão, probably things would not have run the way they did. [[General applause.]] We can say the same thing, Madam President, with regard to rapporteur Pedro Saraiva, who has made a report, underlining, admirable and that he has established a step-by-step from which — I have said it and I repeat — the committees of inquiry and their reports will never be the same. [[PSD, CDS-PP, PS Pedro Nuno Santos and BE Mariana Mortágua.]] Allow me also, Madam President, at this time, to welcome all the PSD Members, in particular their advisers and their staff who have collaborated to help the work of the PSD Parliamentary Group to succeed in this Committee of Inquiry. Once again, I congratulate all Members on the person of their coordinators. Therefore, allow me a political and personal note at the same time to welcome the elevation and sense of state which Mr Pedro Nuno Santos has expressed in this Commission. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and BE Mariana Mortagua deputy applause.]] People are important, Madam President, because the role of the Governor of Banco de Portugal is difficult and often misunderstood. Some consider that the Governor of Banco de Portugal acted late and others consider that he did not act as he should have done, but one thing is certain and the facts speak for himself: the solution found by Governor Carlos Costa had the ability to protect the financial system and the national interest, at a time when few felt that this would be possible, which must also be emphasized at this time. People are important because there was a time when we could all realise, in this Committee of Inquiry, that if there were another Prime Minister, another Minister of Finance and another Government, who would hesitate, who would weaken and give in to the demands of the one to whom they called "the owner of all this", very likely the bill that the Portuguese taxpayers would have to pay would be much higher. It must be said that people are important because without this Prime Minister, without this Minister of Finance and without this government, solid in his convictions and that he had the courage to say that not when everyone else would have said that he would, we would probably be in a much worse situation than the one we are in right now. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The other great conclusion which can be drawn, at this post-reporting moment, is that the Portuguese can be certain and certain that this Parliament, this political system, these Members, and particularly the parliamentary groups that form the coalition that governs and that will continue to govern Portugal — I am sure! — if they want and know how to find the paths to responsibility, they will be able to meet their challenges, even those most difficult. We have achieved this in this Committee of Inquiry, and we will, of course, achieve it in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u62	Mr Miguel Tiago intends to make an appeal to the Bureau. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u63	Mr President, the CFP did not, however, refer to the crucial role of Mr President of the Commission in his speech. We did not want this to be understood as any kind of devaluation, on the contrary: the very conclusions which the CFP has been able to draw in this Commission are very due to the work of Mr President, whom we welcome. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u64	I would also like to express my thanks at the end of this debate to the President of the Commission, to the rapporteur and to all the Members who have participated in the Commission. Now, let us move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No. 807 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Extends to entities pursuing cultural activities the possibility of allocating a share of income tax for natural persons ( PS ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is some noise in the Chamber, so we will wait for only a few moments to move on to the discussion of the already stated point. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. [[Pause.]] To open the debate and present the PS bill, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that the Socialist Party brings to debate and the vote is very simple. It is very simple and yet has great meaning. This is to extend Law No 16 / 2001, which establishes the possibility of a quota of 0, 5 % of the IRS of each citizen. Each citizen can devote this share to a religious institution, to an institution of charity, of humanitarian or assistance and our objective is also to extend to cultural institutions, of course, of a clear public service and of a non-profit character—associative, cooperative and, of course, private— expanding, in a very significant way, the range and possibility of financing from a vast cultural sector spread across the country, which, otherwise, is far from other sources of funding. In addition to strengthening funding, we are also interested in strengthening citizenship action, which is something very interesting and innovative. in this sense, the Socialist Party is very committed to cementing the links that bind the taxpayer to the public thing and the possibility of the contributing citizen to determine and choose which is the destiny of his IRS, which is something quite important and which comes to strengthen and promote a pro-activity, let us say, of the taxpayer regarding the fate of his taxes. In fact, this is proactive citizenship, a strengthening of the taxpayer's and the citizen's involvement in the public thing and an emotional and effective link between the taxpayer's fate of their taxes. from our point of view, they are very important reasons for this legal amendment to be able to vote in favour of this plenary because, in addition to all other things, on the amendment side of a position regarding the taxpayer and the public thing, it has, of course, something that is very expensive to us, which is the strengthening of the financing of our country's associative tissue. Let us not forget that this can allow the small philharmonic band of a particular municipality, the local theatre, the private and local museum, the dance group, the folk group, finally, a huge plethora of cultural associations, by means of this designation of IRS, to be financed by direct determination of the taxpayer of each region. It seems to me that it is, in fact, very simple and that it will make the difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u66	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD/CDS Government has followed a policy of culture secondaryization, since it has replaced the Ministry of Culture with a State Secretary and has gradually reduced the funds allocated to the State budget. This is a policy that has had dramatic consequences for culture and its professionals. The disresponsibility of the State in support of culture, the lack of planning of cultural policy in Portugal and the progressive de-investment is consistent with the understanding that right-wing policy has of culture as mere commodity, the access of society and the privilege of elites, in addition to being an instrument of ideological domain. We know that for the PSD and CDS the solution to the problem of chronic underfinancing of culture is not by the State to assume its responsibilities enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic but, rather, by the cultural patronage or by the municipalization of culture. And for PS, how do we solve the problem of chronic underfinancing of culture? In the face of the bill today under discussion, we have to ask the PS if it is considered that this problem is solved with the possibility of taxpayers to assign to cultural entities and institutions a small part of their IRS. It says the PS, in the preamble to its draft law, that the possibility of listing the IRS would constitute an important budgetary reinforcement for entities and institutions in the culture sector. This is not simply true! According to the data provided by the Tax Authority, from 2011 to 2014 the IPSS, on average, per year less than EUR 9 million. Admitting that the entities in the culture sector would be given a similar amount—and this is a very bold hypothesis—that would represent less than one twentieth of what is transferred annually from the State budget to culture, which in turn is a small part of what would be necessary to affect culture. In other words, the proposal of the PS, to be implemented, would translate-CL-increasingly increase the funds allocated to cultural policies. It is a proposal that, although not a step back, does not represent any rupture with the current policy of de-investment in culture. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The cultural policy proposed by the CFP to the Portuguese is the effective exercise of cultural rights, the creation of conditions for the integral development of the human person and the cultural values of society. And this requires that the State fully assume the responsibilities assigned to it in the Constitution of the Republic. It requires the significant reinforcement of the funds allocated to the culture in the State budget, increasing them progressively, as the CFP has defended and the movements in defence of the claimed culture, until they reach the value of 1 % of GDP. This is what we defend, increase the State budget for culture to 1 % of GDP and demand that the State assume its responsibility in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u68	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, taxpayers can give 5% of their taxes to religious institutions, to IPSS, to charitable organizations. If the mechanism exists, why could they not do so for cultural institutions? We see no reason to prevent it. Having said this, we should also look at reality and take a few lessons: the studies done in the United States, for example, show that the allocation of funds by private citizens works for large organizations and projects, but as a general rule, it does not work to encourage new projects. The non-governmental organization Labor Force points out that funding for individual tax donations is almost always a timely, limited initiative that does not allow to structure multi-year projects. If there is a case in which the mecenate finances a network of public services in culture is when private money is given to a state entity that manages its redistribution by public tender, as happens in Brazil. In addition, the provision mechanism that is proposed and which aims to « individually responsible each citizen for his or her options impacting on cultural policies », not deserving opposition, does not solve the problem of the sector. at present culture is 0, 1 % of GDP from the investment point of view, and in terms of the State budget 0, 2 %, when the reference value would obviously be at least 1 %. Therefore, it would be even worrying that this solution would be understood as a solution to finance cultural initiatives and institutions, because this individual accountability does not allow the structuring of a public policy, does not make it possible to compensate for drastic reductions in the budget and investment of the state and the authorities and does not allow a network of cultural institutions and agents capable of making a public service cultural policy. The Socialist Party is proposing this measure in Parliament today on culture and also proposing in its electoral programme that former students can lend 5% to higher education institutions where they have studied. At the door of the legislative elections, the question remains what this means from the point of view of the Socialist Party's commitment in terms of the words of the State budget for these sectors. This knowing that culture, such as education, are structuring sectors of the public service, whose funding cannot depend on individual responsibility or on some kind, but depends on collective responsibility and political commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Conceição Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are before a bill submitted by the Socialist Party that aims to extend the allocation by taxpayers of 0, 5 % of their IRS to entities that pursue cultural purposes. at first reading, and after hearing until the speech of Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas, this principle even seems interesting and there was no reason for objections, but, as referred to in the explanatory statement, the draft law in question has on the basis of, as mentioned above, Law No 16/2001 of 22 June, which approved the Law of Religious Freedom and which enshrines this appropriation to institutions of charitable, assistance or humanitarian or social solidarity, this provision, as already mentioned here, which has reached sympathetic funds, which in 2014 reached about 12, 7 million euros, distributed by more than 2000 private institutions of social solidarity. It is good that we also welcome the solidarity of Portuguese families, who, even at a difficult time in their lives, have contributed to their participation in institutions of social solidarity. Returning to the subject under discussion, Law No. 16 / 2001, which serves as the basis for the Socialist Party's proposal, specifically states that they are public utility collectives, recognized by the Minister of Pasta. Of course, we are also talking about entities that develop their activity for the benefit of the community and for no profit, this activity is well defined and well determined. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party, in this bill, does not accurately define the concept nor what are the entities benefiting from the IRS designation. It says : « Collective, public or private persons, who develop activities of a nature and cultural interest». Which entities are they referring to exactly? In fact, the honourable Member mentioned several entities here. Are other entities pursuing a majority of other purposes that are not exclusively cultural as well? This question remains for us. It seems very vague to us that this scope and, in addition, it would suffice to certify the collective rather than to comply with the rules required by Law No 16 / 2001. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD, contrary to what has been repeated here until exhaustion—but that is not why it becomes a truth—has had a great concern in increasing the sources of funding for culture. I remember the Act of Cinema, I remember the law of the private copy, which is today, here, in discussion, and I hope that Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas will pass the law that is going to vote today, because it will compensate the authors and creators of the values that have been lost for years because of the absence of legislation. So I hope it's a note. I am also surprised that, as a simple act, it has not been taken during its time, because the law is 2001 and it is therefore an amendment that could have happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u72	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u73	I'm done now, Mr. President. I also refer to the amendments that we had the opportunity to introduce into the State Budget Act with regard to the cultural mecenate within the framework of the IRS and IRC, disbursing, empowering entities and creating better conditions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD at the moment cannot support this bill, because it seems to us to be unclear and not feasible, because we do not know exactly which entities really benefit from this provision. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u74	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the proposal we are considering today is apparently a sensible proposal, I would say it makes sense, but I do not follow the ideas of the Socialist Party on what citizenship is. I believe that the act of citizenship is to have more income available, to pay less taxes and to do with income whatever you want; to give money to the State to be the redistributor state, losing on the tax machine, and to call it citizenship, I do not think. I understand that this divides us, it is life and it is of the fundamental things that will always divide the CDS from the more socialist parties. On this particular issue, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas referred to a simple question, and I would say, perhaps, too simple. This is because the issue of the provision of IRS is a technical and legally very complex issue. in the current table, entities benefiting from this provision are necessarily public utility collective entities recognised for this purpose in accordance with existing legislation and, for example, always and consistent with this, free from IRC. In addition, the Statute of Collective Persons for Public Use makes it compulsory that the provision of IRS does not cover the distribution of revenues that are from the State for purposes other than those that the State pursues. This is a fundamental principle of tax law and Community legislation. Therefore, they must be of general interest to the national community, the region or the district, they must cooperate with the central administration or local administration, in accordance with the law, and therefore deserve the status and declaration of public utility. So, Mr. Members, entities that today benefit from the provision of IRS are entities that can never have a profit. Although you have mentioned this in your speech, you have not put it in the bill and you have to put it, because it is a matter reserved and exclusive of the Assembly of the Republic to define the powers of the appropriation and it cannot be the Government later, by means of a portatoria or, even by way of a decree, to densify the concepts of this law. As you know, even as a constitutional imperative, Parliament is doing this. Therefore, it refers to entities exclusively engaged in non-profit activities and that they cannot have economic activities in competition with other entities which cannot benefit from this same status of the provision. The honourable Member did not put this in the proposal; if she had found a way of putting it, I think we could approach it, but I tell her that I cannot find a way to do it without emptying the content law and without zeroing the number of entities that would benefit from it. For example, it is also necessary to ensure that these entities, by their statutes, never pursue the benefits of private interests of their associates or their founders, as is the case, legitimately, in many of these entities. Therefore, without densifying what the bill does not say anywhere, that is, what are public or private legal persons who develop activities of nature and cultural interest, without explaining that these entities have to have public interest, therefore they have to be public utility collectives, it remains to be concluded that we could be here violating the Community rules of State aid, insofar as these entities are placed in a specific sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u76	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u77	... while not forgetting the requirements that the government and the law already make to the IPSS that benefit from the provision of IRS. I understand the interest that this could have, I think it would be interesting if we could find a way, but a law so would place these new entities in clear inequality, given the requirements that are made to entities that currently benefit from the provision of IRS, and those that are intended to include, therefore, incuring, this law, also there, in a breach of unconstitutionality. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u78	For a second intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, passing on some of the issues that have been raised, concerning the concerns raised by the CFP and the Left Block too, which are very legitimate, I must say that this amendment does not in fact resolve the fundamental issue. In addition, throughout this legislature, we have repeatedly alerted and focused on the problem of cultural underfinancing. Thus, this bill does not solve the problem but helps and all the aid is important. In addition, as I said, the small aid is a aid which, in addition to its financial side, has the side of the determination, the direct orientation of the taxpayer to the thing he wants to support, which is something very important, because it directly relates the taxpayer to the purpose of its financing, being even more a means of financing that, if we see what is said by the social support institutions that have been the subject of this type of financing, has been a very important source for annual funding. As regards numbers, 12, 7 million was the value of 2014, but sources of the Tax Authority point out that if all Portuguese taxpayers were to allocate 0, 5 % of their taxes to this measure, the amount of 42 million could be found. Therefore, there is still a fairly broad margin here to motivate citizens in their intention to determine the fate of their IRS. There is, in fact, no reason for us not to see in this possibility of amendment a reason for strengthening the financing of cultural institutions and strengthening the citizenship of taxpayers. With regard to the right-wing position, I just want to say that, finally, I like to hear the sympathetic reading that has been made here, that is to say, the recognition of the benefit of this legal amendment is unequivocal for both sides, so they just don't approve it because they do not want to, because, in fact, the impediments they bring here are perfectly resolved in the field of specialty. If it is by the definition of the expression « non-profit», the specialty serves the same...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u80	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but you'll have to give me just a few more seconds to finish. So, as I was saying, there's no reason for them not to approve, until the specialty serves for it. One thing is certain: the Socialist Party, on January 1, 2016, will have this law in force, in some way or another, because we will implement it. So the question is whether you want to associate with it or not. And right now...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u82	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u83	... it is important for voters to know which side you are on, on the side of culture or against culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u84	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so the general debate of Bill No. 807 / XII ( 4 ) ends. ( a). Let us now move on to the general debate of Bill No. 889 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 38 / 2012 of 28 August, as amended by Law No 33 / 2014 of 16 June, which approves the Anti-Doping Law in Sport, by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u85	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u86	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u87	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u88	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u89	Mr President, my appeal is to urge you and the plenary to postpone the discussion of this diploma. I'll try to be synthetic on the grounds of such a request. This bill, signed by the majority, was announced in the Plenary on Wednesday, i.e. less than 48 hours ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u90	No, it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u91	Don't say nonsense, Mr. Deputies. The bill was announced by Mr. Secretary of the Bureau on Wednesday at 3 p.m., i.e. less than 48 hours ago. So don't say nonsense. It was not published in the Diário, which entered the Bureau, so the records of the House on 30 April did not go to the committee, nor even to the knowledge, and this is a very important diploma, whose substance is delicate and whose subject requires the work, care and attention of the Members of Parliament and of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u92	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u93	So, Mr President, it seems to me little warning that this diploma, which is about doping, and does not try to doping parliament but, yes, doping in sport, is not postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u94	Mr President, I understand your reasons, but we are faced with the following situation: there is a consensus, in particular at the Conference of Leaders, that, as long as the diploma expires until Friday of the previous week, it is possible to schedule it for the plenary sessions of the following week. That's what happened to this diploma. On the other hand, as you know, the amendment of the agendas made by the Conference of Leaders, therefore the amendment of the agenda requires unanimity from the various parliamentary groups, which I do not see at least designed in terms of being able to correspond to their claim. So there is the record of Mr Laurentino Dias' inquiry, but we will continue with the debate, in general, of that bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u95	Mr President, if I may, I would like to repeat.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u96	What do you mean, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u97	If I may, I would like to repeat Mr President's argument.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u98	Excuse me, Mr, but this figure does not exist in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u99	So, I wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u100	The honourable Member has already made his request, the Bureau has already taken your position...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u101	I know, Mr President, but then I wanted to make a request. Do you give me the floor for a new plea, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u102	That is a further question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u103	No, Mr. President, it's just the second.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u104	You have the floor, Mr Commissioner, and I ask you to be as synthetic as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u105	I shall be very synthetic, Mr President. Mr President, this diploma, which will, by the way, be discussed, must be discussed with another one, which is a proposal for a Government's law on this matter, which was adopted at the Council of Ministers last month and has not yet reached this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u106	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u107	I shall give Mr President a statement from the Council of Ministers on 9 April, which states that the Government has adopted a proposal for a law on anti-doping, exactly what is stated in this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u108	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u109	I am sorry, Mr President, but I think that this Council of Ministers and this communiqué do not lie, therefore, there is another proposal and it happens that this bill is probably much more important than the draft of the PSD and CDS-PP parliamentary groups. Why? Because the government has already said...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u110	Mr President, we already understand the additional reason why you added to your argument. We are informed, the House is informed, so I thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u111	Mr. President, I beg your pardon, the government has already said in plenary and committee that...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u112	Mr President, we shall extend this incident without need.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u113	Mr President, I will hand you the statement from the Council of Ministers to the President to do the favor of asking the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality what this diploma is done, i.e. whether what is in this statement is true or false. I believe that this is my obligation, as a Member, before starting this debate. It's just that we have information... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u114	That must be true, Mr. Deputies. If it is in the statement of the Council of Ministers it must be true, but, as it is not in the House, it was not present at the Conference of Leaders, the agenda was not made by connection, because one cannot connect something which, from a parliamentary point of view, does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u115	Mr. President, we have the information given to us at the government's bench by the government itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u116	Mr President, I am sorry that we can no longer extend this issue. I have already given you two opportunities, so we will start the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u117	All right, Mr. President, we've come to understand how this works,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u118	Sir, I didn't want to be unpleasant...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u119	... as regards doping for parliamentary diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u120	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u121	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u122	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u123	I would not like to prolong this incident, because we are harming the normal course of work, but please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u124	That is not my intention either, Mr President, but since Mr Laurentino Dias insisted twice on the call to the Bureau, I would say until he practically spent his speaking time in the debate that we should have to follow with our own grid — probably because he will have little to say about the initiative in question —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u125	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u126	... I want to make it manifestly clear, until we are authors and proposers of the bill, and given the clarification of the Bureau, that the initiative that will be discussed today meets all legal and regulatory requirements to be discussed here. And I add more: it was announced at the Conference of Leaders nearly a month ago that this initiative would come to the debate today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u127	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u128	Therefore, if Mr. Laurentino Dias was distracted or was not warned, responsibility could never be shaken at the bench of the majority. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u129	To present Bill No. 889 / XII ( 4. ( a), Mr Paulo Cavalleiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now, yes, we will discuss the initiative that the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups bring here the debate. This is a bill which amends the second Act No 38 / 2012 of 28 August as amended by Law No 33 / 2014 of 16 June. It is undoubtedly a fundamental step towards achieving compliance with the legal regime of the fight against doping in our country with the principles set out in the new World Anti-Doping Code. This is a matter in which, regardless of the debate we are currently debating, we all have an obligation to be united and, therefore, we have to make the greatest contribution to the fight for sports truth. I think the need for a permanent fight against doping is consensual. This is a fundamental fight, which we must take as common, consciously and constructively, a fight that aims to ensure sport practice as an effective tool in human education and training, a fight that ensures the protection of sportsmen's health, the defense of ethics and sports truth, a path for which we all have an obligation to contribute. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a long history in this area of the fight against doping and since long ago our country has become aware of the enormous importance of this matter. As early as 1977, the Portuguese authorities, concerned about this problem, took an initiative. Then, in 2009, Law No 27 / 2009 of 19 June, gave rise to the ADoP ( Portuguese Anti-Doping Authority ), a national anti-doping organization. In 2012 a law was published that adopted in Portuguese legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code. Today, it is imperative to update some measures, given the importance of harmonising national legislation in several countries with the World Anti-Doping Code, in a struggle that has to be global, as we know, to combat one of the greatest scourges of sport. Only if there is this concerted effort of the countries in this way to combat doping—in particular by harmonising legislation—will we succeed. It is necessary to ensure the conformity of national legislation with the entry into force at the beginning of 2015 of a new version of the World Anti-Doping Code and the binding international standards associated with it. This bill results from extensive work, of great complexity, but it is important in the fight against doping and presents innovative and harmonized solutions with the said Code. We cannot deal with counterfeiting of results, because it is our duty to ensure all the rights, freedoms and guarantees of sports practitioners. And, if so, it is important to update the definitions, but also to include new concepts, which, with this bill, become present. I refer, for example, to the concept « biological passport of the sports practitioner », as a means of collecting data likely to demonstrate the use of a prohibited substance or a prohibited method. in this new regime it is also expected that the Anti-Doping Authority can access, collect, conserve and proceed with the transfer, transmission or communication of data through the international software toolADAMS ( Anti-Doping Administration & Management System ). Significant changes in proof of doping and sanctioning are also introduced. I believe that this bill introduces positive solutions and, in the field of expertise, we are all called upon to make our contribution. There are parliamentary groups that have already developed this work and have shown their attention to this subject. in this sense, we are all calmer, knowing that we are doing everything so that sport truth can continue to conquer those who cheat. I am sure that, in our specialty, we will all be able to contribute so that this project can be improved and, in this way, we can all be aware that we are doing our best to fight doping in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u131	To present the bill, Mr. Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Anti-Doping Act is of the greatest relevance to national sport, in fact, is a work initiated by the previous governments, including by Mr Laurentino Dias, at the date, Secretary of State. Given this relevance, Mr Laurentino Dias here made his previous intervention, in the form of an interpellation to the Bureau, saying precisely that, i.e., it is of the greatest relevance and importance. I think it is extraordinary for you to say this and at the same time ask for the sine die postponement of the debate of this diploma. I can only take this, Mr Laurentino Dias, as a small animated rabula to give a little color to the debate in the plenary, I cannot take it as a serious intervention. It is known that at the beginning of this year, the new World Anti-Doping Code came into force and, as such, Portugal needed to adapt its legal regime to combat doping with the new standards laid down in that Code. This is what the majority parties now present, and which results from a partnership work with the government, aims to do, i.e. to adopt the principles and structural provisions of the World Anti-Doping Code 2015 and, as such, to keep Portugal at the forefront of the fight against doping. What are these changes? On the one hand, the new regime updates the definitions so as to adapt them to the new World Anti-Doping Code constants. Thus, for the first time, definitions such as « administration », « considerable aid », « directed control », « guilt », « out of competition », « biological passport of the sportsman », « national sportsman » and « contaminated product » are given for the first time. And also, in accordance with the World Anti-Doping Code, the new regime introduces the concept of « biological passport of the sports practitioner », of the greatest relevance, as a means of data collection, capable of demonstrating the use of a prohibited substance or a prohibited method. The Anti-Doping Authority of Portugal ( ADoP ) is able to access, collect, conserve and proceed to the transfer, transmission or communication of data through the international computer toolADAMS ( Anti-Doping Administration and Management System), always in full respect of the constitutional limits enshrined. As regards proof of doping and sanctioning, amendments are also made. It is expected that the time limit for the prescription of the counter-order and disciplinary procedure will pass from 8 to 10 years; two new types of violation of anti-doping rules are created, which will appear in the catalogue of illegal discipline and also in the illicit of mere social order. Thus, and in the context of the unlawful discipline, it is also provided that, in the event of the first infringement, the penalty for suspension of sports physical activity applicable to the sports practitioner is 2 years, in the case of negligence, and 4 years, in the case of mourning. The second infringement procedure is also amended and the table annexed to Law No 38 / 2012 of 28 August is deleted. I will finish this by saying that it is extremely important for Portugal to update its anti-doping rules, keep at the level and in line with the best that is planned worldwide and thus give continuity and conclusion to that fight that Mr Laurentino Dias himself, when he was a member of the government, as Secretary of State, began. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u133	For an intervention, Mr Laurentino Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In November 2013 the World Doping Conference, held in Johannesburg, South Africa, adopted amendments to the World Anti-Doping Code. in it was Portugal, which, together with the other countries, granted these amendments. Portugal, there, made the commitment to update its legislation in 2014 because the Code entered into force on 1 January 2015. But Portugal was distracted and only in mid-2015 was he rushed to update this Code. Better late than never! [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u135	But over the course of this time, we have been urging the government to do what it should do. If Mr President allows me - and let me, of course - I will now say what I meant recently, that is the following: the last time we urged the Government to talk about this, the Government, when asking where the new Code was being updated, replied to us — it is in the minutes — that the Government did the housework. In November, we sent to the World Anti-Doping Agency our proposed legislation. We are in the process of refining and even here we have a delegation from the World Agency. Within days, you will be ready for our proposal to send it to Parliament". That is why, by these and others, we were very surprised when we realized, even though we insisted on the question of the services on where the bill was, that what appeared was not a bill—and it is the government that has to respond to this in the first hand—but a bill from both the parliamentary groups of the majority. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very strange and we hope that the President will ask the Government to send his bill, because the Government is the first responsible for these matters, as it has been said here, so that this bill will also be discussed and integrated into the speciality discussion. in the speciality discussion we will have some things to appreciate, certainly in the environment of convergence, because this subject deserves convergence. This subject deserves care, weighting, tranquility and convergence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u136	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u137	For example, the operation of CNAD ( National Anti-Doping Council ), the sanctioning regime, the delegation of powers in federations, the sanctioning regime with regard to mourning, guilt, negligence, the repeal of rehabilitation control, are matters only which will, in particular, deserve the care of all of us. But this means that this care affects everyone and, in order for this care to result in a good law from here, we all need to tell the truth about this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u138	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u139	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that one of these days I would like to know why the proposed law on this matter has become draft law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u140	I would, frankly, and I will not rest until I know it. I confess that I shall examine, to a certain extent, this diploma to see why this has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u141	The important thing is to have a good law, Mr. Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u142	I shall finish, Mr President, but let me say that a good law, as a good result, is not done with doping, and this bill is loaded with doping. If I were in control, I'd charge positive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u143	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Previously, during the discussion on the same subject, the CFP presented some reservations regarding the proposal that adapted our legislation to the rules set out in the World Anti-Doping Code. Today, these reservations are greater, due to the proposed amendments under discussion, in particular with regard to the biological passport and the system of location of the sports practitioner, whose assumptions may sacrifice the privacy, rights, freedoms and guarantees of sportsmen. in the sense of this same observation, we cannot fail to express reservations about the amendments proposed in Articles 38. e 42. the, as well as the addition of Article 42. o -A. The limits imposed on access to personal data of sportsmen seem manifestly insufficient, considering the international scale of availability of these data, and the obligation to subject themselves to their use to the principles of necessity, proportionality and adequacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u146	It seems to us that this set of amendments is part of a principle of initial suspicion over sportsmen, and they are also adding to the proposals for strengthening punitive measures which we doubt are the best solution. In fact, some of them seem to be overstated, particularly when Article 70 is amended. the, which stated « who has been the subject of the application of a suspension penalty during the duration of the suspension, cannot participate, in what quality it is, in a competition or sporting event» and now adds: « or in any activity carried out on the aegis of a signatory of the World Anti-Doping Code, of any of its associates or by clubs or sports associations, both nationally and internationally. Do not keep on seeking. ” Finally, this may mean banning the participation of this sportsman, even if outside of any competition, in an initiative organised, for example, by a local sports association or by a neighborhood club. The worsening of punitive measures, regardless of prevention or due follow-up, will no longer be the stigmatization of the sportsman. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Doping in sport deserves our concern and rejection, and the implementation of measures to combat it is necessary. At the same time, we must not fail to say that this reality is not disconnected from the constantly encouraged need to achieve certain milestones and results in high competition, not rarely imposed by economic interests and dynamics and that sometimes move colossal financial sums, which goes in total contradiction with those who must be the true values and objectives of sports practice. And it is this constantly encouraged need that can also promote the use of a whole set of illegal substances, which, in addition to committing sporting results, are often detrimental to the health of these athletes. Intervention in this area has to go beyond laws, it is necessary to define an educational and prevention policy, which stimulates a healthy practice of physical and sports activity, valuing the role of sport, viewing it as a right and an important factor in promoting social, cultural, well-being and health inclusion. And this is an essential basis for promoting high-competitive policies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u147	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to update the anti-doping law according to international jurisdiction and even some data that sports practice has brought about as emerging in legislation. This is a need felt by the legislator, felt by the sports phenomenon; another thing is the result that we are here today to analyze, under the responsibility of the majority benches. We have nothing to oppose the extension of anti-doping rules, we have nothing to oppose in relation to the extension of the limitation period, for the counter-ordinary effect, we have nothing to oppose a set of technical solutions that have been found. So where do our reservations reside? Our reservations reside in data protection in relation to the practitioner's biological passport and how it is assured, because the project is completely omitted in this area. I even believe that the delicate point of this bill, from a constitutional point of view, is to know how to ensure the data protection of the biological passport of the practitioner. But we have other difficulties and they are based on the legal technique. For example, Article 2. the concepts of « administration », « illegal substances» or « prohibited methods », are said to be able to meet the good faith of medical staff, which is already quite vague and indeterminate, has no other more detailed correspondence on the assessment of that good faith. But even worse, if the good faith of medical personnel is not accepted, it may be « another acceptable justification», which is a vague and indeterminate, discretionary thing, then in the application of the law by the Anti-Doping Authority. If we are to see the definitions of guilt, lack of guilt or negligence, lack of guilt or significant negligence, we will continue to find vague and indeterminate concepts, which give the Anti-Doping Authority a completely discretionary field in the application of the law. Well, that can't happen. Therefore, my appeal is that not only is there a constitutional shieldage that respects the protection of data for the biological passport of practitioners, but that there is also another essay, in the specialty, that finds unequivocal, clear and concrete forms of what is directed from the legislative point of view. Mrs. Members: with regard to the administration of prohibited substances and methods, we have a period of 12 lines, even above, full of comas and substitutes, which gives rise to various readings and even contradictory to the will of the legislator. That can't happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we've come to an end...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u150	Mr President, allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u151	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u152	For an intervention, still within the framework of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u153	I'll give you the floor, asking all the gentlemen. Members who sign up for requests for speech in a timely manner. You have the floor, Mr. Paulo Cavaleiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finish this discussion, I wanted to say that, for us, the important thing is to deal with the matter and I have some difficulty understanding some people who say that we are late, but then they want to postpone the process... [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] So, for all of us to sleep at rest, the sooner we walk, the better it will be. Mr. Laurentino Dias, we well remember what happened in 2011, i.e. the delay this process had and we were at risk of losing the laboratory. We know all this, we know how this matter was dealt with, in the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u155	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u156	... and we also know how difficult it is to coordinate all these processes with an international agency. But we are once again and always available; our stance is to solve the problems and make a good project.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u157	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u158	I shall conclude by saying that we are available and thanking the positive contribution that has already been made in this debate by a number of parliamentary groups to find the best solution in this matter and to make the best possible fight against doping.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u159	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate and at the end of this debate, I would like to congratulate almost unanimously...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u161	Don't look at me! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u162	... or with the unanimity itself, which was and was transversal to all parliamentary groups on two essential issues: the need to combat doping and the need, incorporated in this bill, to update the rules of this fight and to conform domestic law to the rules of the World Anti-Doping Agency. I therefore cannot fail to congratulate myself, regardless of whether or not Mr Laurentino Dias has spoken. I would also recall a process that we had in 2011 and in which we were about to lose our international credit in the fight against doping, because because of a delay of the previous government and its Secretary of State, we were almost overdue. I want to say, in conclusion, that there will now be an exhaustive debate, in the specialty, in which all the contributions will be welcomed. It will be a debate in which we will be able, we who will still be part of the working group and that we are all people linked to sport and with a special sensitivity to this area, with good sense, sitting around the table, discussing, debating, eliminating the doubts that Mr. Luís Fazenda raised, clarifying the issues that Mr. Laurentino Dias raised and trying to make it more secure...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u163	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President. I believe that the conditions are met to achieve what is the primary objective that we all pursue, which is the fight against doping in sport, so that we can come to a final document which is a document of consensus and of the approval of all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u165	With no further entries for interventions, and no time available, we are finishing the discussion of the last item on today's agenda. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u166	I ask the services to make the number of presences appear in the electronic table. The electronic table records 204 presences, to which 7 are added, of the Members. Deputies José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, Jorge Lacão and Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the PS, Carla Rodrigues, Francisca Almeida, Paulo Cavaleiro and myself, of the PSD, and Artur Rêgo, of the CDS-PP, performing 212 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, we begin with vote No 278 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of journalist Oscar Mascarenhas ( PS, BE, PCP and Os Verdes ), who will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last May 6, at the age of 65, Óscar José Mascarenhas. Born December 9, 1949, in Goa, Oscar Mascarenhas came to Portugal in 1957, where he continued his studies, first at the Externate Frei Luís de Sousa, in Almada, and then at the Liceu Gil Vicente, in Lisbon. It is in the Gil Vicente that knows Carlos Cáceres Monteiro, Luís Almeida Martins and João Vaz, with whom he would have to work from 1975 onwards, in the journal The Capital, hesitant, in interview, between whether he has been choosing journalism or having been journalism to choose it. Until he interrupted the law course, to enlist as a volunteer in the Portuguese Air Force, he attended the Lisbon Law School, when he applied for the Student Association. Militant of the Socialist Left Movement, Oscar Mascarenhas maintained intense collaboration in his newspaper, The People's Power, integrating, from 1976 onwards, the wording of Page One. In 1982, he exchanged Capital for the Journal of News, where he did a large part of his career, working until 2002 as a reporter and lead editor, which allowed him to follow historical moments such as the Olympic Games of Los Angeles ( 1984 ), the first free elections in the German Democratic Republic ( 1990 ), the Gulf War ( 1990 - 91 ) or the beginning and end of the trial of Xanana Gusmão, in Timor-Leste ( 1993 ). in the same journal, it assumes, between 2012 and 2014, the functions of Supplier of the Reader. In 2003, he became a member of the Lusa, Portugal News Agency, S.A. — as an adviser to the Administration, having, among other functions, the relationship with the news agencies and international bodies with which Lusa was cooperating. In September 2005, it moved to the drafting of that agency, as an editor, integrating in 2007 the morning shift, a function it performed until it moved to the pre-reform situation, in 2009. For many years he still worked with the Journal of the Fundão. Returning to higher education, he takes the postgraduate course in Journalism, promoted by the ISCTE and the Higher School of Social Communication (from which he was Professor of Ethics and Journalism Dentology), following the Master's Degree in Communications Sciences. He was distinguished from the Reports ( 1985 ) and Travel ( 1986 ) Awards, by the Portuguese Press Club. "From the first day until his death", he was head of the Journalists' Union for several decades, having presided over the Deantological Council for eight years and, until his disappearance, holding the office of voice of the same body. It also incorporated the Committee on the Professional Wallet of Journalists. Oscar Mascarenhas considered voting exercise and party militancy absolutely compatible with the exercise of the profession, stating that « a journalist is not a castrated citizen », although completely refusing the accumulation of certain professional activities capable of compromising « his independence and the image of that same independence ». in the last days of his intense life, he dedicates himself, with Adelino Gomes, Alexandre Manuel and Luís Paixão Martins, to the election of immortals ( of Camilo Castelo Branco and Eça de Queiros, passing through Manuel António Pina and Carlos Pinto Coelho ) to integrate the future pantheon of journalists, created within the Museum of News, to be inaugurated in Sintra, in 2016. Remembering Oscar Mascarenhas is to remember a free man who, with high awareness of ethical imperatives, fought against the success of superficiality and mediocrity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Oscar Mascarenhas and sends condolences to his family».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u168	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 278 / XII ( 4. ( a), which has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of us to keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us proceed with vote No 277 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the 70. the anniversary of the victory over Nazism in World War II ( PCP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « May 9, 1945 marks the defeat of Nazism and the end of World War II in Europe. Shortly thereafter, with the defeat of Japan, it ended the most bloody and destructive war that humanity has ever lived. symbolizing the defeat of Nazi-fascism, May 9 went to History as the Day of Victory. Behind were the barbarism of the oppression and the plans of world domination of the Nazis-fascism, more than 60 million dead, the massacre of entire populations, the horror of the camps of concentration and slave labor, a huge devastation caused by war. The victory over Nazi-fascism was achieved by the resistance of communists and other democrats and anti-fascists, by the combination of the Allies' efforts — the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of America and Britain — and the Soviet Union, which suffered more than 20 million deaths, given the greatest and most decisive contribution to this victory. The Portuguese people celebrated on the streets the defeat of Nazism, in contrast to the complicity of the dictatorship of Salazar towards fascism and Nazism which, by Hitler's death, decreed national mourning. With the end of World War II, significant progress has been made in the world towards social and national emancipation, social progress and liberation of peoples who have been subjected to colonial domination. Seventy years after the end of World War II, the world situation is characterized by great instability and insecurity, as a result of increasing interference and war situations, in danger of a conflict of great proportions with tragic consequences for all humanity. Today, they assume the greatest relevance, respect and compliance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, such as national independence, the right of peoples to self-determination and development, equality between States and non-interference in their internal affairs, the peaceful solution of international conflicts, the dismantling of international relations, the general, simultaneous and controlled disarmament, the establishment of a collective security system, with a view to creating an international order capable of ensuring peace and justice in relations between peoples and their cooperation for the emancipation and progress of humanity. Today, the fight for peace, against fascism and war assumes all the present and premence, putting the need for the conjugation of the desires of the forces of peace, democracy and social progress, so that the horrors of the Second World War never happen again. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 8 May, shall: 1 — Signing and congratulating 70. the anniversary of the victory over Nazi-fascism; 2 — To pay tribute to those who have resisted and fought, by giving their own life, for the release of humanity from the Nazi-fascist barbarity; 3 — To warn of the importance of not forgetting the causes, perpetrators and horrors of the Second World War and of combating all attempts at the whitening of Nazi-fascism and forgery of history; 4 — To recall and reaffirm the importance of respect for and compliance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic so that the horrors of the Second World War never happen again».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u170	Congratulation by 70. the anniversary of the victory over Nazism in World War II ( PCP ), which Mr. Secretary has just read. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] There are several requests for speech, I believe, to announce the submission of explanations of vote. Mr António Rodrigues, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u171	Mr President, to announce that the PSD will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u172	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u173	Madam President, in the same way, to announce that we will present a statement of vote on behalf of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Vitalino Canas of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u175	Madam President, I welcome you on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and I also announce that, since we agree with the deliberations but not with some of the grounds, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u176	All announcements for the submission of explanations of vote shall be recorded. Mrs. Members, let us proceed with the general vote on draft law No 888 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November establishing the administrative reorganization of Lisbon ( PSD and PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and BE, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 890 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — It deepens the rights of workers in the municipality of Lisbon who have been transferred to the parish under Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November by making their first amendment ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 650 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revocation of moderate rates and definition of criteria for the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 891 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Sets the exemption from non-emergency charges for patients ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November) ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The general vote on Bill No 892/ XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — eliminates the payment of moderate rates in access to health care of the National Health Service ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November) ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 893 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the model of regular and coercive collection of moderate rates by amending Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CCP, BE and Os Verdes were rejected and the PS voted against the PS.]] We continue to draft resolution No 1445 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Cancellation of the external invitation to tender in breach of Directive 1999 / 70 / EC of the European Commission and the launch of a new binding invitation to tender ( BE ). The CFP requested the separate vote on points 1 and 2. Like all of you. Members are informed and agree, we shall vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the CFP.]] We now vote point 2 of draft resolution No 1445 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mr. Michael Seufert asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u177	Madam President, to announce a statement of vote on this draft resolution on behalf of the CDS bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceeded to the general vote on Bill No. 894 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Proposals for a scheme for the linkage of teachers in the career ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The vote is followed by Decree No 320 / XII — Second amendment to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation relating to private copy, for confirmation thereof. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this vote must be electronic and, at the same time, with a vote for the lifts and the seats. [[After the vote, he obtained the necessary two-thirds majority, with 120 votes in favour (PSD and CDS-PP), 43 against (PCP, BE, The Greens, 16 PS Members and 3 CDS-PP Members) and 49 abstentions (PS).]] Decree No 320 / XII is therefore confirmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u179	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u180	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u181	Mr President, it is to announce, on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr José Manuel Canavarro, Pedro Saraiva and Mauricio Marques, who will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u182	Mrs. Francisca Almeida, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u183	Madam President, it is to announce that, on my own behalf, I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u184	There are more requests for speech, I think for the same purpose. Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u185	Mr President, it is to announce that on my own behalf and some other Members of the PSD will deliver a vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u186	Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u187	Madam President, to inform you that, together with the representatives of Abel Baptista and João Rebelo, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u188	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u189	Madam President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that I will also present a personal statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u190	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now proceed to the general vote on draft law No 807 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extends to entities pursuing cultural activities the possibility of allocating a share of income tax for natural persons ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 889 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 38 / 2012 of 28 August, as amended by Law No 33 / 2014 of 16 June, which approves the Anti-Doping Law in Sport, by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1395 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of lay-off action in the function houses of the Republican National Guard at the Fifth Gate, aid parish in Lisbon ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for a law No 288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall also vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft law No 797 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 25 / 2008 of 5 June ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We are now voting on the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Supervisory Board — 2014. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also have to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication, which Mr Duarte Pacheco is going to announce.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the District of Lisbon — Local Court — Criminal Section — J10, case No 6235 / 12.6TDLSB, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Paulo Mota Pinto ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-08.u192	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will consist of political statements and discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1439 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and eliminate practices of police violence and racism ( BE) 1217 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide consumers with adequate information on the social energy tariff and exceptional social support to the energy consumer ( PS ) and 1462 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure full access to electricity and gas by families with economic difficulties ( BE ). The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 40 minutes.]]
