ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Agents, you can open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 793 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 59 / 90 of 21 November, administrative autonomy of the independent bodies operating with the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ), which is currently under consideration. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start our work with the thematic debate under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, on the problem of forest fires. The opening of this debate is made by the Government, following the speeches of the various parliamentary groups. I then give the floor to the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the context of firefighting, the priority of the 2014 Special Firefighting Device (DecIF) was to ensure the safety of all those involved in it. in this sense, there was a clear bet in training, and there was also a strengthening of the means and cooperation between the various entities that compete to combat this chaga which, unfortunately, afflicts the country with special intensity in summer times. The work done was worth it. The results of 2014 are frankly positive regarding the number and intensity of occurrences and, above all, the absence of fatal victims. It is not ignored that climate conditions were favorable, but it cannot fail to appreciate the other factors that contributed to such results. The effort to combat forest fires allowed Portugal to obtain the lowest number of occurrences in the last 25 years in 2014. There was a reduction in occurrences of 63 % compared to 2013 and, on the other hand, less than 65 % of occurrences in the critical period, in the charlie phase, compared to the average verified in the last decade. As I said, several factors contributed to this marked reduction in forest fires in Portugal, but it is justified to pay particular attention to the investment made in training. The special firefighting device carried out 179 training actions, involving 4563 operations. These actions have had a particular impact on areas with greater fragility, which has decisively promoted the improvement of the operational capacity of the device, also contributing to the safety of all those involved in the fight against fires. with regard to the earthly commitment of the device, the effort and dedication of all in the protection of persons and goods is also well known. Without wanting to be exhaustive in numbers, I believe that the data are elucidative of the degree of commitment involved. In 2014, they were involved in the DECIF 2200 teams, 2027 vehicles, 9697 operational, plus 50 forest fire fighting teams ( we passed from 638 to 688 ), plus 250 firefighters in the fight against forest fires ( from 3564 we passed to 3814 ) and strengthened the effect of the special fire force. With regard to aircraft, the fleet consisted of 33 aircraft, the charlie phase with 48 and finally the delta phase had 23 helicopters and amphibious planes. I would also like to refer to an indicator of extraordinary importance which is the time to respond of the means dedicated to the fight against forest fires, either in the dispatch of the first medium, or in the arrival of the means to the site, and, above all, in the resolution of the fires, and Portugal has improved in all of them. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are finishing the DECIF for this year of 2015 and do not comfort us with the good results achieved last year. Several technical evaluation sessions have already been held and, on the other hand, in the preparation of the DECIF for 2015 we made use of all the experience gained in combating forest fires in 2014. But we do not forget the difficulties faced in more difficult years and, for this reason, the DECIF for 2015 is based on the experience and learning made in 2013, which, as we all remember, was especially demanding. We believe that the only way to achieve good results in the fight against forest fires is to emphasize successful measures and policies, but also to learn from the years in which the context was more adverse. That's exactly what we're doing. I shall finish this speech by expressing, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Government, the most sincere appreciation and thanks to all the women and men involved in the fight against fires. It is to your dedication, commitment, professionalism and, not few times, to your physical courage that the country owes the good results achieved. The bravery and the spirit of mission with which they face the risk are worthy of the highest recognition and on the part of the Government we will do everything to continue to support this worthwhile work. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u5	The Bureau raised nine questions which will be addressed to the Minister and to which the Minister will answer in groups of three. Mr Freitas has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage in this Parliament, I would naturally like to welcome you, wish you a good job in your current duties and tell you that we believe this thematic debate is very important. however, the most noted fact is the absence of the Minister for Agriculture and the Sea. As you know, Mrs Cristas has now taken over the competences of the Ministry of Agriculture which contemplates the area of forests and, therefore, we also expected you to be present in this debate. This is because the main focus of the issue of forest fires is not in the fight, it is essentially in forest policies and in structural prevention, Mrs Minister. Therefore, the government fails to see what we consider the essential focus of the debate that we should be having today and which had to do with forest policies and the issue of prevention. But it is also true that the other essential focus has to do with the safety of men and women facing the fire in the first line. These two are, then, the subjects that we consider essential. On forest prevention, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. State Secretarys of State, I would like to say that, in fact, with this government very little progress has been made. In terms of primary ranges, we passed from 12 % to 17 % in three years, the slag programme stagnated, the controlled fire is no longer a priority of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et Des Forestas). With regard to the ICNF, I would like to say that it is very serious that, at the moment, it is in breach of the law on commitments, since it is one of the entities on the central government's list to make a higher expenditure than its budget. Mr Minister, on the issue of firefighter safety, we have some issues that we consider essential. On the one hand, we would like you to make us the situation point of the PPE(individual protective equipment). On the other hand, and because the matter deserves concern, since in the investigation made to the CIM(intermunicipal communities) there was a great heterogeneity regarding the date of delivery and the type of equipment, we wanted to know if you are in a position to commit yourself to the delivery of the PPE until the start of the time of fire. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u7	Mrs Graça Mota has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the theme of this morning's debate is undoubtedly associated with one of the greatest challenges in our country: defending, preserving and valuing an endogenous resource that is part of our identity, as a country, as a nation, which is the Portuguese forest. Forest fires are a phenomenon whose proportions are assumed and their consequences require a deep and thoughtful reflection on the part of all of us. in recent years, the existing policy instruments on the prevention and combat side have been strengthened, in order to achieve technical and functional improvements, upstream and downstream, of the outbreak of a forest fire. I would like to acknowledge that much has been done in Portugal in the field of forest fire prevention and control. However, we recognize that there is always the possibility to improve. After a tragic year of 2013, involving the death of several firefighters in the fight against forest fires, the Government and Parliament themselves made an extended weighting on the operation of the fire forest defence plan, changing procedures and methodologies. in the specific case of the CIF ( Control of Forest Fires), in 2014 there was a strengthening of the land resources, the air resources of extended attack and the number of fire fighting teams. Thus, in 2014, the ground media device was strengthened with more than 50 combat teams in the most dangerous phase and in areas of greater forest danger. By 2015, I would like to ask the Minister how the ground media device is planned. With regard to the extended means of attack, i.e. the aircraft, it is important to say that last year it had four more amphibious aircraft, which joins Canadair, two aircraft, which have rejected the validity of heavy air resources, similar to previous years. On Canadair, I would like to recall the Government's decision to acquire two Canadair and to ask the Minister when her arrival in Portugal is expected and what air resources are being equationd for the 2015 DecIF? Finally, knowing that fire fighting teams last year were reinforced with 250 men, which represented a total investment of EUR 1 million, I ask the Minister, as the forecast of reinforcements for this year 2015. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u9	I now call on Mrs Cecilia Honorio to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Internal Administration, Mrs. State Secretaries, we recognize the investment made and all that can be done to prevent more men and women from dying in the fight against this scourge. however, we want to look forward and we want to think and discuss what is being done to avoid mistakes from the past. The New Firefighters of Aveiro, a few days ago, did not even have money for gas oil, the same with the Voluntary Constance Firefighters, with 23 cars stopped and without fuel money. We are continually witnessing the underfinancing of firefighters, with the government passing responsibilities to the authorities, who do not always, of course, have the means to respond. last February 4th, Secretary of State João Almeida said, at the headquarters of 1. the Commission, that the proposal for firefighter financing law was very short and I want to ask exactly when, with what general lines, when we can be assured that this chronic problem of underfinancing firefighters is solved. Second question: what bet is being made in the formation of firefighters and with what profile? We cannot underestimate, either experience, as it is evident, all the research work that has been done by the institutions, by research at the level of university education. in this sense, I ask clearly what is the bet that is being made in the formation of these essential elements for combat within the framework of the DECIF. Third question: regarding the bet on individual firefighter equipment, I quote here a report on the responsibility of Prof. Xavier Viegas of the University of Coimbra Fire Studies Centre, who told us—and we should not forget all the evaluation that was made regarding the 2013 fires—that "should not be saved in its price, quality or specification". I wonder what percentage of individual protective equipment has been awarded and which has so far been distributed and what assurances we have that these equipment, in terms of quality, meet the demands of firefighters' work. I still remember when, here, someone from the majority was ironic about the boot problem. The quality of the equipment is absolutely decisive and therefore the questions are: what has been awarded, what has already been distributed, when it is going to be distributed and whether there are assurances that the quality of the material meets the requirements of this activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u11	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u12	I conclude now, Madam President! Finally, in this first picture, the warning was also made that all the work of articulation between multiple entities, from authorities, scientific community, firefighters, National Civil Protection Authority, should begin again in low times and not in absolute stress. I would also like to ask you what work of articulation between all entities is currently being promoted for an effective response when problems occur. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u13	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by stressing that an integrated perspective in the fight against forest fires is really fundamental and, in this sense, there is an ongoing initiative to create an observatory for forest fires. This observatory is intended to create a platform to establish a dialogue between the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Agriculture and also to establish cooperation with various external entities, including universities, as the Member mentioned, the National Civil Protection Authority and other authorities and entities that are essential to the fight against fires. As for the law on the financing of firefighters, it is being terminated and will be discussed in this Parliament. It is public that the Government would like to include a pillar for municipalities, compromising them with minimum values for firefighters financing. Unfortunately, this was not possible by absence according to the National Association of Municipalities, but it is guaranteed a strengthening of funding by the central administration, which is more than 10 % of the current value. As for the equipment, which are really a concern, the contest was launched by the inter-municipal communities and is virtually completed. As regards the delivery of equipment, almost all are delivered and the contest launched by ANPC ( National Civil Protection Association) is also completed, the equipment has already begun to be delivered to ANPC and will soon begin to be delivered to the corporations. Most equipment will be made available in time of the most critical phase of the fires. With regard to Mrs Graça Mota's question, I would like to point out that the concern about the fleet of air resources has been constant by the Ministry and we are not only in the process of completing contracts as we closely monitor some problems that occur in the fleet, which are, in fact, public knowledge, but the monitoring of this situation is being done with all care. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u15	For a question, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u16	Madam President, Madam Minister of Internal Administration, in addition to complimenting you, allow me to quickly put some questions to you about matters that have broad consensus in the House and have had broad consensus throughout the governments. In fact, normally there are factors that we do not control and that make the area burned bigger or the fight more difficult, so I would not just like to take up a question that has not been asked to adhere to the recommendations that resulted from the working group here in the Assembly of the Republic. These recommendations are very consistent with the evaluations we have already made in the past and one of them has to do with training. One of the recommendations — if I do not miss my memory, was 25 — was about the need for training, either in prevention or in combat, either in the various structures: in the CODIS ( Distributive Operational Commands of Relief Operations ), in the CADIS ( District Group Commands ), in firefighters. I know that there was a new training plan and I would like to be able to make a quick assessment of how training worked last year and what is expected for the future. Then I would like to ask you quickly, because it seems to us that it is a matter that works very well on the ground on the groups of divers. What is the strategy and what role can divers play in fighting? I would also like to tell you that, for us, prevention is essential. In fact, we all use the phrase « fires do not fight, do not fight », so the approach must be made in prevention. I ask you, therefore, what is the assessment that is made and what is the point of the situation of risk cards, whether they are municipal, whether they are districtal, because we must position the means and find a strategy that is consistent and consistent with the risk that the fire is, and not exactly have to help in times of crisis or in full combat. Finally, in terms of organisation, in the field today, we have a set of inter-municipal communities and a set of supra-municipal competences, and it is reasonable that we can extend the vision we have of combat and prevention. I wonder how we can improve and how supramunicipal or intermunicipal cooperation is done, if you want, where I think there is something to be done too. Today, the municipalities are more available to cooperate, such as the firemen's own cooperations, having been created up to the figure of CADIS, which is a broader command. These are the issues I would like to leave here, because it seems to me that they are going to meet a number of concerns that we find in the hearings here, in Parliament, and some of the issues that we also find on the ground. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u17	For a question, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u18	Madam President, the Minister of Internal Administration, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, would like to congratulate her, and also the other members of the Government, of course. Madam Minister, there is a question that must be clarified here today on behalf of the Government: why is the Minister of Agriculture not here, who has the protection, let us say, of forests, of a fundamental component of prevention? The Assembly of the Republic is launching a debate on the problem of forest fires and the fight is represented here, but there is no prevention here. I have a number of questions to ask about prevention. Who do I put them to? Mr. Minister of Internal Administration? I believe that the Assembly of the Republic deserves at least one justification. Why is the Minister for Agriculture not present in this debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u19	And where is Mr. José Luís Ferreira?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u20	Mr Minister, we know that the investment in combat has been far superior to the investment in prevention, but we must in fact re-equarate this investment logic. I am not minimizing the component of the fight, but I think we need to invest more in prevention, because we also need to make prevention in order to be able to reduce the fighting, which I think is what we all want, not promoting a fight that will compensate for the lack of prevention. That seems to me to be an absolutely wrong logic. Now, when we think about what we need to do in terms of forest registration or when we think... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] Mr Artur Rêgo, I ask you to contain yourself in the gestures, please. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] When we think of the ashtrays committed by the government, in particular the diploma on trees and re-arboring, which completely opens the door to the eucalyptus, we realize that there is something here that is not playing. Then, Mrs Minister, I would like to say that 80 % of the ignitions are caused by negligence, which then seems to be the most significant cause of all the cases found. I would like to know what the government is planning to undertake in the area of awareness-raising, which I think is extremely important in the area of forest fires. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you the following question: the Minister has mentioned, with regard to personal protective equipment, that most of these equipment would be made available before the most critical phase. That's what I said in the answers to the previous questions and I'd like to have a more accurate idea than that means. How many firemen are you going to protect? [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u21	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u22	I will finish, Mr. President. How many firemen are you gonna leave out? Finally, with regard to the financial difficulties of the corporations, the Minister announced that there will be a 10% higher funding than the current value. I would like to know if that means that we are not going to see that scenario of the gross financial difficulties of firefighters in the middle of a time of fire, that is, if that is actually guaranteed. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u23	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, have long claimed that firefighter associations claim a financing law that guarantees them the appropriate conditions to ensure relief to populations. The difficulties of financing which firefighters' associations are voted upon lead them to absolutely unsustainable and precarious situations, where individual equipment, cars and other equipment are lacking, where there is a lack of personnel, and without any prospect of solution. in recent years, many firefighter associations have lost personnel, failed to replace cars and equipment, often walking with obsolete equipment, including putting the life of firefighters at risk, arriving to have emergency cars stopped due to lack of fuel, because there is no funding for the current operation, as happens in Constance. following the report of the Working Group on Forest Fire Analysis, a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, which recommends that the Government in point 2.10 « adjust the law on the financing of firearms bodies, establishing strict and objective criteria ». This resolution was published in June 2014 and, Madam Minister, it is known, until today there has been no concrete proposal. In the meantime, government members have also long been promising legislation on the financing of firearm associations. What we were hoping for, Mrs. Minister, was for you to come here today to tell us when the promised law will come. How much longer will the firefighters'associations, institutions that guarantee relief in Portugal, have to wait for stable and dignified funding? It is important to say the following: the fact that there are firefighter associations in Portugal, which basically ensure the national rescue system, saves many million euros to the state annually. If the firemen's associations did not exist, it would have to be the State to ensure relief. It is therefore fair that there is stable, regular funding to firefighters' associations, which take into account the relief needs of the populations and territories covered and which allow them to be equipped with the human, material and all the equipment necessary to ensure their mission in good quality and timely. And it's not worth coming here again with the rhetoric that last year things went well. They did well, yes, because climate conditions contributed, because if not, the most likely would have repeated disastrous and dramatic situations of 2013. We want to prevent this from happening again and in this sense we understand that once and for all it is time to regulate the financing of firearm associations, and we are already convinced that the day it arrives will be late. Firemen's associations are full of empty words and empty speeches. What they want is that they are effectively guaranteed adequate funding to provide relief to populations, especially when they replace the State. So, Madam Minister, say today, in particular here: when is the adoption of a framework for the financing of fire associations? If this government does not once again pass empty words, it is necessary to say that it is playing with fire. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u25	In response to these three requests for clarification, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to begin by referring to the presence of the Deputy Secretary of State for Agriculture, who is also accompanying me in this debate. In fact, I should have mentioned that a little while ago. Regarding the Strategic Plan for the Training of Portuguese Firefighters for 2014 - 2016, this strategic plan has as its main objectives the permanent guarantee of access to the initial and continuing training of firefighters and also ensure the relevance of the investment made in the training. This is a very important aspect, adapting training to the missions that firefighters actually do. Another aspect is the decentralization of modules and the use of new technologies. Another important point is the training that takes place in the corporations themselves, thus adapting the working hours of firefighters to training. In this regard, I would like to leave a number: training in 2014 represented a global volume of about 1 million training units. By 2015, the main axes are improving access, ensuring quality and promoting innovation. In addition, to speak of specific cases which have already been referred to here, I would like to mention the example of the Lousã Training Centre, in which the investment was of a considerable value, about €204 000, representing an increase in training capacity by about 25 %. With regard to the fact that Mrs Paula Santos has pointed out that climate conditions could justify the fact that 2014 has been a less severe year, I must say that it is clear that these conditions help in this respect, but the fact is that we cannot also draw a scenario that is not demonstrable, i.e. that if the climate conditions had been worse, the year would have been worse. In fact, I refer to a fact that comes from the material that has been distributed and is an example of the fact that in 2002 it was a less severe year than 2001 that two fatalities were registered, while in 2001 only one fatal victim was registered. That is, what I mean is that there really is a set of factors that have to be worked and analyzed, and that is our concern. With regard to the Civil Protection Basics Act and the financing law, I have already given some information and, if Mr President authorizes me, I would ask that the Secretary of State of that further clarification on this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u27	Mrs. Mr President, the Minister requests that Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration be able to corroborate the answer and will do so, having the House's consent, given that the questions were addressed to Mr. Minister. But if there is no objection on the part of any bench, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State João Almeida in order to continue the answer. [[Pause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, replying to some of the questions that have been put, in particular the first, by Mr Hélder Amaral, of the CDS, regarding the risk mapping, I would say that, as you know, this is something that has been going to be done for a long time. The current Community framework has been used to be able to finance the development of this risk mapping, which is entirely contracted and being completed, while meeting the current deadlines of the Community framework and will therefore, of course, be completed in time. We are talking about a cartography that is part of the most general and that will need to go to the most particular, but that is exactly the way that will allow some evolutions, among which, for example, serve as a basis for a typification of firefighter bodies according to the one who is the risk and other conditions. That is why it is not possible to move forward further in some areas without having this technical basis, which is essential. On the issue of CIMs, the proposed amendment to the Basics of Civil Protection Act, which will enter Parliament, will take into account some of these matters. There is a debate that is relevant, which is the question of the maturity of the CIM model for an area as sensitive as that of civil protection. I believe that this is a debate which is difficult to generate, firstly, very definite positions and only with the debate can we improve and improve what, in fact, can lead to a supra-municipal logic other than that of the district, which is the current basis of the organization of the system. Now, if you can go right now, whether you should go later or whether you should maintain the super-municipal base of the district, because you are already sufficiently consolidated, this is a debate of the Basics Law and the Government will not have a closed position on this matter, being open to whatever Parliament's reflection. Regarding funding and individual protective equipment, firefighters will have this equipment as they never had. When we heard about personal protective equipment here, there seems to have been distribution of this equipment in the past and now it's missing. The gentlemen. Members know that the State has never distributed personal protective equipment to firefighters in Portugal. The first time you did it was last year, and very well, and you should do it with all speed, because what happens is that, from the safety point of view, individual protective equipment, at the same time as training, are essential for firefighter safety. There were problems in the inter-municipal communities, this was recognized, and that is why the second contest was made by the National Civil Protection Authority. Both will be, except for issues of dispute and which, of course, cannot be overcome, fully completed during this year's time, with the materials delivered. The quality conditions required for this type of equipment are Europeans. There is no equipment of any competition which does not comply with the technical standards of safety requirements, whether at the level of boots, jackets, gloves or helmets. They all respect the safety standards that are laid down. Finally, the financing law. I understand the rhetoric of Mrs Paula Santos, but I would suggest that she speak more often to her comrades who are leaders of humanitarian associations, because I am pleased to be with them every weekend and I know perfectly that the assessment they make of these matters is substantially different from what you have done here. If we have not yet proposed a law on funding it is because we have been discussing with all humanitarian associations the most appropriate model and we are even discussing not what municipalities can replace the central state but the effort that the central state will make according to the municipalities have not been available to participate in this financing law. And you will agree that at a time like this, more than 10 % of the funding of humanitarian associations is nothing different than what you said. This is a recognition that it is not excessive generosity, it is fair to humanitarian associations and recognition that the model of volunteerism we have is in fact a model that saves resources to the State and therefore the State has an obligation to share. The difference is that until now we have no financing law and we are going to have, the increase that will be made is more than 10 % — which is not possible in many other areas at the moment — and it means the priority that is given to humanitarian associations and voluntary firefighters. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u29	Let's move on to the third block of questions now. Mr Valter Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest safador teams play a key role in raising awareness, cleaning and monitoring of forest areas, which, together with the work done by forest producers' associations, this more technical work becomes relevant in the planning and planning of the Portuguese forest. Given the importance of forest slag teams, we welcome the forecast of its increase, as well as the renewal of existing equipment and vehicles in a high state of degradation. Also national forests, particularly Pinhal de Leiria, should be an example in terms of cleaning, maintenance and forestry. In addition, a well-ordered and managed national forest can serve as an additional source of revenue for forest services. in our opinion, the prevention and cleaning of national forests could be carried out by forest slag teams, under the public service, revising their financing protocols. in this sense, I would like to ask the Government if it would not be important to revise the financing protocol of these protocols, in addition to giving it another framework in the Special Arrangement for Combating Forest Fires, in particular in forest prevention. The military device, in the area of patrolling and surveillance of national forests, is also extremely important in preventing forest fires. We understand that it is necessary to put more operational and bring these surveillance actions also to private forest areas, in order to prevent and deter those who intend to place fire sites. We believe that under the Lira Plan, we should increase the military device, strengthen the patrol and surveillance of national forests and extend it to other forest areas. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the work that the GNR Protection and Relief Intervention Groups (GIPS ) initially carried out in a pilot project in Alcanena and Porto de Mós, continuing to have the goal of having the rural areas guarded, thus avoiding more violent fires and damage in housing and other structures near the forest, showed good results, currently developing in eight municipalities. This work should, in our view, be the main action of GNR GIPS, since the monitoring, identification, sensitization and authority of the State can only be in the sphere of security forces. Does the Minister understand that this work should or should not be extended throughout the country, in conjunction with local authorities, including municipal chambers and parish councils? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u31	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u32	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the absence of the Minister for Agriculture, I will insist on some matters relating to prevention. I don't know if you can answer us, but perhaps as many of them as Mr. Secretary of State João Almeida will actually be able to do so. It seems to us that prevention work, in all spheres, is fundamental. There was, or there was, a protocol between the Ministry of Education and the National Civil Protection Authority in the field of risk education. I think it is a good time to ask ourselves what evaluation was made of this program, what results is that this program has had and how you think it will continue. What is being done to involve more populations—and those who speak in populations speak of the essential aspect of the authorities—in surveillance, in protection, in self-defence, in the control of risk behaviors, what obviously requires means and also training? What is being done with regard to the maintenance and construction of fuel management bands, in particular with regard to punishment in cases of non-compliance. We well know that in the past there was the pretext that this was all private and we know what happened also in the forest that was under the control of the State itself. The Assembly of the Republic, in the context of its intensive work and the report they know, recommended, among many aspects, that volunteering should be a strong bet. Today I would like to ask why, as we know, did the Volunteer Youth program for the protection and defense of the forest? That's the information we have. Finally, one last question, at least for Mr. Secretary of State, which is related to the Kamov helicopters. What assurances are there that air resources are operational and are in the best condition to be used from here very soon? As there are still doubts, Mr Secretary of State, first of all concerning the co-pilots coming from the Army and the costs that are reported, at least by the information we have, to the National Civil Protection Authority, and, secondly, with regard to training requirements for the pilotage of the Kamovs, which guarantee us not to be suitable for this purpose, we must be sure that these means will be used with all effectiveness and without any kind of problem. I would therefore like you to clarify these questions once and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u33	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u34	Mr President, the Minister of Internal Administration has already responded to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture is not present, stating that, however, Mr. Secretary of State for Agriculture was present. But the truth is that the political responsibility for forests is that of Mr. Minister and not Mr. Secretary of State. When the government decided to go without the Secretary of State of the Forests, what they said to us was: « Having the forests in the direction of the Minister is an appreciation of the forests; the forests are valued in this area». For here it is: who we have here now to discuss the issue of forests is the Secretary of State for Agriculture. However, there are a number of questions that we would like to ask about and, as the Minister has opened up the possibility of the Secretary of State to answer, I hope that agriculture will be able to respond to these matters. The first question relates to the new Rural Development Programme, the RDP, and is this: what evaluation has been made of the application of Community funds for the forest? If we look at what the Community frameworks have been in the field of forest financing, we have noticed that since 1990 more than EUR 1 billion of public funds have been applied in the forest. Only in the last two Community support frameworks EUR 400 million was applied in the forest. However, in the last 13 years, corresponding to the last two Community support frameworks, on average, 138 000 ha were burned, while in the previous 13 years on average 102 000 ha, i.e. there was an increase in the burning average area. On the other hand, fires covering a burning area of more than 200 000 ha have occurred in recent years because between 1980 and 2000 had not happened. In terms of the number of jobs, there are fewer than 160 000 jobs in the forest. The gross value added of the forest in national gross value added has also been decreasing in recent years. Thus, there is here an entry of public funds for forests, but this, after that, has no reflection on what the results are. I therefore ask what evaluation has been made and whether these numbers are taken into account in what is the definition of a financing framework for the forest sector. Even in this area and with great importance in the area of agriculture, and with regard to what was in the resolution—and the Government, in the documents it sent for discussion today, presents the question of compliance with the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic—there are two subjects which should be met in the area of forests, which seem to me very important and relevant and which are not indicated as having been completed or in progress. One first is the forest register, which is very important in these management control matters and in the global fire problem, and on which the government says nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u35	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u36	I conclude, Mr. President. A second concerns a biomass assessment and recovery study, but no reference is made to which some steps have been taken in this direction. These were my questions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u37	The government has benefited from an increase of time, given by the CDS. To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u38	Mr. President, I would begin with the view of supervision to stress that there has been a real transfer of responsibility from the municipal chambers, which took place in June 2014 to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration, which he delegated to the GNR and the PSP. This change is significant because it now involves a pedagogical aspect of this monitoring action which is very important. In other words, even though a significant number of counter-ordinations have been raised in eight months and a significant recipe has also been achieved, which consists of the material that was delivered, what I wanted to stress is that the logic of cleaning forests and forests is not purely of revenue but of prevention. In fact, it also helps to achieve and realize this pedagogical aspect the notion that the fine will effectively be applied, that is, there is here a special preventive effect that is now achieved with the fact that it is the GNR and the PSP having this responsibility. I understand that from June next year we may also be able to make an evaluation of the functioning of this evaluation system. With regard to the operational training plan, which also referred implicitly to in your question, Mr Valter Ribeiro, stressed that the link between the various forces is very present here, in particular, as mentioned by the Armed Forces and also firefighters and forest firefighters. Indeed, actions are being promoted with the use of different means at the disposal of these different forces. With regard to the operation and maintenance of air resources, in particular the Kamov, this is, as I said recently, a major concern of the Ministry. And what I mean, clearly, is that the international public competition is already concluded, has already been awarded to the winner competitor, the contract has now been signed on 6 February, and will enter into force in the second half, with the designation of aircraft in time of the DecIF 2015. With regard to matters most directly related to agriculture, he asked, with the permission of Mr President, that the Secretary of State for Agriculture could give further clarification. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u39	Of course, Mrs. Minister. Mr. Secretary of State for Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is anything that is closely linked to agriculture and forest, it is our agroforestry sector. Regarding the issue of PRODER and the assessment we make in relation to forests, it is true that the rate of execution of PRODER was slow and that in forests it was even slower. This great difference between agriculture and forests is the result of several reasons, one of which is the complexity of the measures; the second is the slowness of the economic return that forests have in relation to other activities and the difficulty that support rates had in filling this delay in the economic return of the forest. So what we found was that we could simplify the measures during the PRODER. This has been done and today we have 88% implementation in the forests, and the PRODER today already has a 96% execution, and there is obviously a difference. What can be done about the RDP to address this difficulty in supporting forest investment and implementation? First, increase support rates. And the RDP, in relation to the PRODER, has higher support rates in all support to the forest. Second, try to include the forest in other areas where it can benefit and which were not benefited in the PRODER. For example: first, everything that is innovation and research; second, everything that is inter-professional organisations, which will become possible also in forests (and there is a more transversal area important); and third, to introduce the concept of forest producer organisations and work together. I believe that the increase in support rates and these more transversal interventions will lead to greater implementation of forest support and thus to improved prevention. With regard to eucalyptus, the RDP does not provide support in new areas, it only provides investment in which there are already existing ones. And on the aforementioned diploma of the RJAAR ( Legal Regime of Arborization and Rearborization Actions ) in the eucalyptus areas in which it has already been invested, I must say that there was only 18 % investment in new eucalyptus areas. So it's a marginal area. With regard to the sapphires, I must point out that the equipment for individual protection will begin to be delivered in March as planned. With regard to investment, I mentioned the RDP, but we have a novelty with regard to the previous framework, which is the structural funds, which will also have an intervention, in terms of prevention, in the forest, particularly in primary and secondary networks. Finally, I want to say that we must invest in the forest, first in terms of quantity, in prevention, and then in terms of quality, and there the indigenous varieties are important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u41	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u42	Today the signing of the creation protocols of the competition centres of Pinheiro Manso and Pinheiro Bravo is taking place. And that is where the Minister is, with 40 entities, signing these protocols and that is why she is not here today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u43	Mr Fernando Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u44	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, which I would like to congratulate in this first debate in Parliament, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to commend the Government for scheduling this thematic debate, which we consider of great importance at a time when the strategies for the use of RDP 2020 funds are defined. During this legislature, we have repeatedly brought to debate the problem of forest fires. A number of initiatives were approved, where this Parliament unanimously stressed the importance of the forest line and a sustainable management model, which yields to producers and, through cleaning, reduces the risk of forest fires. I recall the various draft resolutions adopted in 2012, the report of the Biomass Working Group, in 2013, and the report of the Working Group for the Analysis of the Problems of Forest Fires, discussed and approved in plenary session in May 2014. At the beginning of this report the following was said: « Forest fires represent the most serious threat to the sustainable development of the national forest, whose risk of burning is four times greater than that of the countries of southern Europe ». This says everything. "This situation, in addition to the suffering and despair that it causes in the populations, often aggravated by the loss of human lives, causes enormous economic, social and environmental damage. Therefore, it is time to look at the problem ahead, try to understand its causes and the best way to avoid it." The problem of forest fires can be analyzed by several prisms, all of which are important: forest protection policies and prevention and firefighting policies. I believe that we continue to look a great deal at the fight, and at the material and human resources that constitute the fighting device, without giving due attention to forest protection and prevention. Therefore, once again, I focus my approach on prevention issues, and can claim that the diagnosis is made and can be quickly synthesized. The Portuguese forest occupies one third of the national territory and is an important economic resource. Its location is linked to low-density territories. More than 90 % of forest property is private, unlike other countries, and minifundia is the dominant feature. Therefore, the abandonment of rural space has led to the lack of cleaning of forests, which leads to an increase in the fuel load and which, of course, leads to an increase in the risk of fire. We therefore understand that there is an urgent need for a deep restructuring of forest management, integrated and sustainable management, giving concrete responsibilities to the various actors and creating mechanisms that encourage owners to actively manage the forest. Investment in prevention needs to be strengthened, particularly in the development of the primary fuel management network. It was therefore recently stated that the funds of the 2020 RDP should be used to finance the planning and cleaning of our forest and to provide owners with an opportunity to value their properties. Support for rural communities and families should not be regarded as more a subsidy but rather as the payment of a service to society, not only from an economic but also from an environmental point of view and nature conservation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group recognises the work done by this Government to speed up some procedures and improve legislation. The reform of green taxation also brought some important changes to the dynamisation of the sector. We know that work is difficult and moves with many interests, sometimes contradictory. Changing management models that mix with ownership and feeling of possession and loss is complex, but we cannot give up. We therefore believe that it is essential to stabilize the financing framework of forest producer associations and to re-equire and strengthen forest slag teams; to deepen the forest intervention zone model and to encourage new management models; to deepen partnerships with municipalities and inter-municipal communities for the opening and preservation of the forest road network; to complete the forest register; and to operationalize the monitoring of Decree-Law No 124/2006. With these and other measures, we will certainly contribute, not to solving all the problems, but to effectively reducing the risk of fires. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u46	For an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I am going to speak of a crucial issue for the prevention and fight against forest fires, which are the teams of forest miners. Some questions I am going to ask are merely rhetorical, because we have here Mr. Secretary of State Diogo Albuquerque or Mr. Secretary of State Pedro Lumba is exactly the same, because none of them have competence in the area of prevention, and that is an extraordinarily important domain. The Socialist Party is proud to have been a government of its own to set up forest slag teams, which, for nine months, clean and protect the forest and, for three months, help combat. however, all of this is being challenged by the negligence and laxism of the current government. If not, we see: the government announced the allocation of immaterial cars for the 21 teams of forest skiers and so far we do not know whether the equipment has arrived at these teams, although the Secretary of State says it is in the immediate vicinity. We are at the end of February and we are not yet aware of the permanent forest fund activity plan and funding for forest slag teams. We are talking about teams that have to intervene immediately and the uncertainty that it is for all those who want to apply for forest slag teams and who do not yet know whether there are applications and whether there is funding. It is a totally unacceptable situation that is happening, so it is appropriate to ask: who will come to us under these circumstances? Mrs Cristas, who promoted herself and the Secretary of State for Forests, said many times that it was necessary to allocate funds from the Permanent Forestry Fund for prevention. Today, we see that the National Bear Plant in Leiria has 20,000 ha and two teams of sapphires. That is, he's got 10 people for 20,000 ha. We are in a situation where prevention is fundamental, decisive, for the issue of forest fires and, at the moment, there is indecision, laxism and misunderstanding in this area. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Minister and the Secretary of State for Agriculture when these applications will be approved and when there is some guarantee and some comfort for these forest slag teams. Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, some predict the rain, others are content to wet and I think that only that will save you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u48	At the moment, there is only one Member who is registered. I call on the ladies. Members who still want to intervene before the closing phase. For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u49	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, I would like to extend to you a special greeting for your first intervention in the plenary session of the House of the Republic — be welcome — until, above all, it brings good news. Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin this speech by noting the following: in 2014 Parliament adopted the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 51 / 2014 proposing a number of recommendations to the Government. The initial greeting I made was also to say that the Government is fulfilling that Resolution, is following a significant part of our proposals and recommendations, either within the Ministry of Internal Administration or within the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea. [[Protests by PS Deputies João Paulo Pedrosa and Miguel Freitas.]] In fact, to satisfy the curiosity of the honourable Members. Deputies Miguel Freitas and João Paulo Pedrosa, who are questioning me, I did not forget — it would be bad to forget. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, you have been misinformed. In 2014, 21 new cars were assigned to the oldest teams of forest skiers. Various types of motorcycle equipment and personal protective equipment were also assigned. Mr President, I would like to remind you of the case in my district: the inter-municipal community has made a competition, has taken a long time and now all of us. Presidents of the Chamber are proud to be they deliver the individual equipment to their fire companies, and well. They did a public act and also sensitized the population to the issue of firefighters, which, in the case of Viana do Castelo, is well missing. Mrs. Deputies João Paulo Pedrosa and Miguel Freitas have been a little distracted. Note: within the Ministry of Agriculture, only by 2015 is planned to establish 29 forest slag teams. It is true that they were not constituted before. But there's one thing you've noticed and I think it would be all right to admit it -- actually, the CDS has always admitted it. It is that we have substantially improved what was done in the time of the Socialist Party in the context of forest fires, which was well done. We have continued the work that was being done, both within the Internal Administration and within the Ministry of Agriculture—with regard to the Ministry of Agriculture, I will speak a little more. We've been getting positive results every year, which is to point out. It is a constant policy that has been improving every year. In fact, Mr Miguel Freitas acknowledged this in the report of last year of the Working Group on the Analysis of Forest Fires. Mr Miguel Freitas, with regard to the Ministry of Agriculture, it is good to remind you that only in the PDR, with regard to the initial PRODER, there was an increase of EUR 113 million in forest investment; of the planned 442 million to 555 million, which is significant. Mr Freitas, I would also like to tell you that, in the context of investment and prevention, you have forgotten to mention all the fiscal policy that has been introduced into the State budget for this year and that will involve the reduction and, in some cases, the elimination of taxes for forest activity. For example, in the case of ISV ( vehicle tax ), it shall be for vehicles used by forest skiers ; in the case of IUC ( single traffic tax ), it shall be for the same purpose ; and in the case of IMT ( municipal tax on onerous property transmissions ), it shall be for the reduction of effects for the ZIF ( forest intervention zones ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u50	I knew it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u51	Ah, I knew it! After all, I knew it, Mr. Deputies! And I knew it was being done, well done and it should have been done a long time ago! Mr President, these attitudes belong to those who have an institutional position at some point, but who at other times forgets the institutional position. After all, it is a Socialist Party that is only institutional in front of the Chinese, but it is not institutional in front of the Portuguese, and that is bad! We must be institutional, we must always defend the Portuguese in any circumstance. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I hope that Mr Miguel Freitas has the capacity to help the Secretary-General of his party to be always institutional. I know you didn't support Antonio Costa, but you can now, despite everything, give him some advice. I hope so. Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, even with regard to what was mentioned here, was given a note of an attitude of the Ministry of Internal Administration extremely important, in our perspective, and, indeed, it is also contained in the recommendation. The Minister pointed out that there were 179 training and training actions involving 4563 operations. Now, these training actions for professionals on the ground come in the right direction and in the sense in which the Minister began her speech in this Parliament, i.e. in order to protect the lives of firefighters. This is, for us, an absolutely priority measure. The forest must be preserved and we must all work for it, but we cannot question the lives of firefighters and the lives of those professionals who, every day, fight fires and protect people and their goods. They themselves must have their protection and investment made in individual protection, training and training is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u52	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u53	I would also like the Minister to tell us, in the context of this debate, what work is being done in this area, i.e. in the area of the prevention and safety of firefighters and in the area of equipment to support this prevention, as well as in the area of training and training, so that, at the time of the fight, no mistakes are made, as, unfortunately, sometimes happens, not because of the problems of command, but because of the voluntarism of the firefighters themselves, which causes them to question their lives. I remember a fireman who died in my district in Viana do Castelo, more specifically in Valencia two years ago, for the volunteerism he himself put in an action. To save a piece of equipment, it ended up losing its own life. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u54	Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u55	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : Madam Minister, of course I would like to address you, taking into account the fact that this was your first intervention in the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic. I congratulate her, expressing our solidarity and wishing her much luck, because indeed the fight against fires also has to do with luck. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the problem of forest fires. We can be divided into ways to fight this scourge, but we are surely united in the results to be achieved. Awareness of the population for the importance of the forest and the evils of the fires is and will always be one of the objectives to be achieved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u56	Portugal registers, every year—and in some exaggerated—a large number of ignitions. It is therefore important to drastically reduce this number. Sensitization and monitoring of the forest is essential to reduce the number of occurrences. Today, much has been said in prevention and almost everything has been said and well said. Prevention is essential to reduce the number of fires. It says the people, and rightly, that prevention is better than remedying. We have no illusions: we will never be able to eradicate this scourge — hence the importance of combat. We need to be more and more efficient, both in the first intervention and in the other phases of the fire. Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, it was precisely the fight against fires in 2013 and the tragic effects that then occurred, in particular the loss of human lives, which led to the creation of the last Working Group for the Analysis of Forest Fires. Ensuring and improving firefighter safety conditions must always be present in our concerns. It is therefore important to highlight the way this Government's Ministry of Internal Administration has dealt with this issue. It's not us who say it, it's the firefighters. Ensuring adequate training for combat actors is significantly improving their safety. Therefore, due to the determination of the Ministry of Internal Administration, the Strategic Plan for the Training of Portuguese Firefighters was implemented by the National School of Firefighters. This new Strategic Plan privileged the realization of initial, continuous and decentralized training actions, taking advantage of and profitable facilities, carried out by local authorities a little across the country and made a great bet on the training of active body elements. There was therefore a strengthening of the training and training component, using new technologies. In the area of safety, particular attention was given to individual equipment and, with the collaboration of inter-municipal communities, a distribution plan for such individual equipment was implemented. In terms of the use of fire, the accreditation of technicians for the use of fire suppression, combat, tactical and counterfeiting and for other entities beyond the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et das Forestas) was extended. It will now be easier and faster to decide and use this important technique of combating forest fires. In 2014, there was also a strengthening of the planning of logistics support bases with the capacity to provide accommodation, food, equipment storage and supply to forest fire fighters. These changes in 2014 were carried out in parallel with the strengthening of air resources. But let's not forget, the decrease in forest fires has to be a permanent bet. And that depends on everyone! Portugal without fire depends on us all! in the heat-up phase, we heard the firefighters and what they said was: « in recent years we have significantly improved in everything related to the fight — vehicles, equipment, communications, protection, training and winding up time spent ». Great example given by the Ministry of Internal Administration! Who says it's the fire department! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We also valued a unit that was inadequate and without proper functioning: the National School of Firefighters, which affirmed its ability to intervene as a training and certification entity for civil training and protection, today being a reference not only for firefighters but a little for the whole Portuguese society. That's what we did at the National Fire School. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u57	It has already been said here that the slag teams are insufficient. We also consider him. It was a good bet. We did not create them, but we did keep them and have implemented them—it is unfortunate that the honourable Member who referred them is not present at this time in the Chamber. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u58	It was also mentioned here that only two teams were created for the Leiria pine forest. But I ask: if it's so little, why did he create them and have been in government for so many years he didn't put more than two teams there? He had time and money to do it. In fact, we are living at a very high time of financial tightening, but there is no lack of money just for the prevention and fight against fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u59	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have been talking about the model of financing firearm corporations and changes to the structure of the national civil protection system by defining the standards in which the structure must be based. I would like, as much as possible, to mention here what is the criterion of the financing model, because it must start from the structure in which it will establish its own civil protection. So this is perhaps the time to define, for example, the function of CADIS (the district grouping commander), in particular because it is isolated because it has no support structure for its decision, and this has effects that Mr Secretary of State probably knows. I recall what happened a short time ago in a fire in Amarante, in which strangely the reinforcement group came from Amarante rather than from Aveiro. But it's the logic in which the interdepartmental groupings settled. Mr Secretary of State, it is clear that first of all, we need to be told what the criteria are for establishing the model of funding for firearms bodies. And that also happens by the government here to say what relationship the National Civil Protection Authority has with the fireman. When is the fireman leaving the barracks going or not going on behalf of the state? Do you or do you not have authority? We need to clarify this situation. And here, perhaps, is the greatest difficulty. Financing models cannot be established because the financing model is to finance a structure that is initially known as what it is and how it is organized. If we do not define, once and for all, the relationship that exists between State, through the National Civil Protection Authority, and firefighter bodies we will never reach a definition of responsibilities. And that is the problem that we see, that is, the question of responsibility. This is because, when it goes wrong, it's the firemen's fault; when it runs well, it's the National Authority that gets the credit. Therefore, we must begin by defining this issue, obviously also based on the risk mapping for firefighters to be funded according to and with the needs of the risks identified in their area of intervention, preferably. These were the issues I would like to leave, calling for them to be answered, especially what is the relationship between the National Civil Protection Authority and the fire department. Even because the Secretary of State knows that it is not possible to define a commandal hierarchy when it cannot be disciplined — this question is, as you know, exactly in this matter. By the way, Mr. Secretary of State, let me just remind you that in 2006 all the fire companies in the country, through civil governments, have received individual protective equipment. I myself distribute them at the School of Transmissions, because there was no place to save them at the airport. Therefore, we ourselves take part in this process. Another question I wanted to raise concerns the training plan. Madam Minister, I appeal to you to be sensitive, particularly in matters of security, to the extent that, as we know, the national civil protection system is already present in the national internal security system, whose concept of internal security already includes, precisely, the prevention of serious accidents and disasters. So there is a cross—and good— between the two systems insofar as a terrorist attack, for example, can have the same effect in terms of damage as a natural disaster. Therefore, according to the system, all civil protection agents will be called to the site, as, of course, firefighters. The question that arises, Mrs Minister, is also the training of firefighters in situations of internal security risk. We always seek to prepare firefighters for specific civil protection situations, but we must deal with situations in which they may, in future, be called in a picture where the theatre of operations is not just a natural accident, but also an accident caused by a terrorist act. So we also have to think about training — and I do not see it mirrored here in this strategic plan — between joint training, security forces and civil protection agents in a theatre view of operations arising from acts that come from internal security. And it is good that we also begin to reflect on these matters, because we cannot then let firefighters without themselves make an assessment of the risk in their intervention. That, too, of course, will be necessary. Madam Minister, I also take advantage of the question regarding critical infrastructures, whose identification — the Minister will say — is not clear whether they have already been able to transfer to the internal security coordinator office. When you transferred the skills of emergency civil planning to the National Authority, you also transferred the competence of identifying critical infrastructures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u61	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u62	I shall now conclude, Mr President. in a situation where an infrastructure can be called into question, by human action, by fire, or for whatever reason, it was good that, once and for all, we knew who sent on the ground, who had the duty to give the order and who had the duty to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u63	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are a number of issues that we believe cannot fail to be put in this debate. First, I begin by saying that Mr.Minister spoke in a set of developments and made some comparison between climate conditions, but what happened to the climate conditions of 2014, which happened happily, is that she did not allow to test whether the options taken were the correct ones or not. And the evolution in these matters, as you know, has not been very positive. We understand that the national network of surveillance posts was a matter that needed to be brought here. For a long time, there has been disinvestment, there has been no definition in this matter. The resolution of the Assembly of the Republic points to clearer definitions, but does not refer to the implementation by the Government. With regard to personal protective equipment, Mr. Secretary of State said that never so many were distributed as so far, but the most concrete question that had been posed was to know how many were distributed and, most importantly, to know what percentage of firefighters are going to the theatre of operations and who are protected. Still about firefighters, it was important that we try to clarify a problem that has been repeatedly raised, which is the problem of their reform. What happens is that they can only be firefighters until the age of 65, but they can only retire at the age of 66 / 67, which gives rise to a hiatus with problems for corporations and firefighters. Finally, on the issues which Mr Secretary of State for Agriculture has put, I would like to say the following: on what was the evolution of PRODER during the PS government, we will certainly be able to accompany the Secretary of State on the criticisms he makes. In fact, the Secretary of State said that the implementation in terms of these matters was very low, but he did not tell everything, he did not say what you did to improve the implementation. It is that what you did to improve implementation when you arrived at the government that took EUR 150 million from the forest product. That's what happened, Secretary of State! Nor did he answer the question of the rustic register, which is an important issue. It was equally important to understand the Permanent Forest Fund...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u65	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u66	I'm done now, Mr. President. The Permanent Forest Fund had around EUR 7 million in balance and, for example, in the area of baldiums, use plans remain unapproved and unfunded, and are important in terms of forest management. Finally, Mr Secretary of State spoke on the PDR and on the measures for the agility and the arrival of money to the forest. But the question had been as follows: after more than EUR 1000 million for forestry in the different Community frameworks, forest burns more, there are fewer jobs, the weight of forest in national wealth is lower. The Secretary of State does not say that he concludes that the Government draws this and it was important that some conclusions should be drawn in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the closing phase, each Parliamentary group will be available for four minutes. Interventions will be made in the growing order of the parliamentary groups and the government will intervene at the end, available for 8 minutes. I draw attention to the fact that there is a lot of noise in the Chamber, so I ask all present to silence so that we can hear the speakers. To begin the closing phase, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that there is a framework that cannot be left out of our reach when we are discussing the issue of forest fires today and which has to do with climate change. It is that all studies indicate that the phenomenon tends to get worse, that there will be an even greater increase in the average temperature, which means more favourable conditions for the deflagration of forest fires. And we need to be prepared for this framework, because our adaptation process to climate change also goes by being able to visualize what can be expected and we will prepare ourselves to face the worst scenarios. Therefore, it is also in this framework that we have to think about the matter of forest fires. Then I am very sorry that, on the part of the Government during the entire debate, we have not heard of the matter of negligence as a factor that has a very significant weight in ignitions. This means that we are eventually faced with a significant picture of careless actions and, in the face of careless actions, we need to intensify our awareness-raising process. I would have been very interested today to see how the government is looking at actions to get more to citizens, to strengthen action to raise awareness and inform citizens. Unfortunately, we did not have that information on the part of the Government. On the other hand, in terms of prevention, I would like to reaffirm that this is the component to which the Greens are, in fact, giving extraordinary importance to forest fires, so we have a great deal of regret to see a secondaryisation, at the level of investment, in this component and to give greater attention to the matter of combat. If we check the numbers, for example, at the level of surveillance — the number of patrols carried out and the number of effectives — and compare the data from 2006 with those from 2013, we will see that everything fell by half. This means, however, a weakening of a fundamental component, as is included in the report prepared by the Working Group of the Assembly of the Republic — the framework is clear as water — which is precisely that of surveillance. On the other hand, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — and thus contribute to a greater weakening of the support of our own forest. Mr President, I would also like to point out that the matter of forest fires is clearly a cross-cutting issue. And the appeal I would like to make to the Government has to do with the following: when we promote policies of human depopulation from the interior, we are intensifying the danger of forest fires; when the Government insists on closing public services in the interior, not promoting conditions for people to move and fix within the country, it is creating more favourable conditions for the greater spread of forest fires, in particular by a major and natural neglect of our rural world. It is that dynamizing the rural world, giving it human life is also protecting our forests. Finally, I would like to point out that we did not know, Mr Secretary of State and Mrs Minister, which percentage of firefighters will be most protected through individual protective equipment. Mr. Secretary of State may say that there will now be more than in the past, but I believe that the perspective we would like to have in this debate was that of how this will materialize in practice in terms of real protection of the number of effectives. We'd like to have had that information.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u69	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u70	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we still believe that the debate has been extremely fruitful and, in spite of everything, I find it regrettable that the Minister for Agriculture has not given priority to such a debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u71	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We are coming to the end of this debate and the Left Block would like to address the aspects that it considers fundamental when discussing the problem of forest fires. We all know that forest fires are a worrying reality that wipes out the country and affects populations regularly. The future is not easy, especially due to the effects of climate change, which cannot be ignored in a forest fire control strategy. Faced with this scenario, and we even know how it works, if we look at what happened, in terms of climate, in the years 2013 and 2014, we reject that the occurrence of forest fires is seen as the new normality. It is normal, it happens — we reject this idea at all! Therefore, the issue requires continued debate and substantive measures, many of them without immediate impact, but fundamental to the future. There is absolutely a need for changes in the way we organize the forest and how the fires are turned off and also decisive climate change measures are being taken. It is in this sense that we now want to challenge the Government's position at the end of this year in Paris when the Conference of the Parties takes place within the framework of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in 2015. It is necessary to work, and work from now on, for this conference to come out of a binding agreement with rigorous goals and objectives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u74	But there are also situations at the internal level that need to change and that are directly related to political options. The abandonment of rural areas, Mr Secretary of State for Agriculture, which is greatly affected by economic migration, is another risk factor. Here too, we feel the effects of austerity itself, in its essence and in its results, an enemy of a cohesive territory capable of defending itself. Forest associationism must be supported, as an important part of ensuring the effectiveness of prevention. Fuel vegetation in the forest is currently a risk that should be turned into an advantage, generating employment and creating energy or raw material. Portugal is the country of Europe with less public forest area, representing only 2 % of the total area, when the European average is 58, 65 %. On the other hand, we are the European Country with the largest area of eucalyptus. And don't say no, Mr Secretary of State for Agriculture! But we are well aware that the decree of this government allowing the liberalisation of eucalyptization remains in force. To get to the root of the problem, to be truly radical, it must be said that more public forest and more indigenous species are needed. This is what is needed and not a forest at the service of the cellulose industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u76	For the Left Block, the role of the Armed Forces should be reassessed, as we have already said during the discussion of the Working Group report. Currently, the Armed Forces are oriented towards an external threat that does not exist and it would be of any value that their orientation would be for the truly existing threats, particularly as regards, for example, fires, and others, in the area of civil protection. Finally, Mr President, saying that we need an appropriate forest to the ecosystem and that it serves the people and, for that, a policy strategy is needed. The last words must be addressed to those and to those who, in a self-sufficient way, face the fires, firefighters and firefighters in this country, who deserve our recognition, but above all have the right to have all the conditions to carry out their mission. Therefore, at the end of this debate, we hope that all the issues that we have raised here and which have to do with the financing of firefighter corporations and also with access to individual equipment and firefighter training will in fact be put into practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u77	Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members: Forest fires are a drama, with social, environmental, economic and financial implications, which is devastating our country from time to time. And we cannot turn them off from a set of policy options for public investment, for the fulfilment of responsibilities, for the planning of the territory and even for the economic model applied to the development of the primary production sector. For the PCP, discussing forest fires has two distinct approaches. One, which is not the main one is the one that has the greatest visibility, is that of the combat itself. This phase will be all the more extensive, worrying, problematic and, unfortunately, even less careful and worse managed is the forest. On the intervention capacity of firefighters, the Minister challenged the role of good things the government has done. The fact is, in the last year, there have been serious problems and the government has not been well in the photograph. If it has corrected and introduced changes that are proving effective, we do not know it, because fortunately the weather conditions in 2014 helped not to perform this test, and in this there is nothing new. If we look at the last 10 or 20 years it has always been the favorable weather conditions to contribute to less bad results and never concrete political measures. We do this discussion when news about corporations with no means and firefighters with few working conditions abound — a little different from the reality reported here. Many mistakes have been made over the years, often with obligation to retreat, but always to seek new ways sent. The CFP has always objected to the fact that the country does not have its own means of combat. The models found made millions at the expense of the public accounts to verify that, when they were needed, sometimes there was no answer. The Government has understood that it is necessary to have own planes, we will now see what management model it will find. The extinction of the body of the Forest Guard, whose powers and capacity of action were not completely assimilated by the GNR, is another example of error committed. The Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests ( ICNF ) misses it, the PS is sorry that it has been extinguished, the PSD says it was a mistake, but when the PCP proposed the resumption of this body, within the GNR, both one and the other voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u79	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u80	The other approach that needs to be taken on the problem of forest fires is that of forest policy. And, in this respect, as in agricultural policy in general, the Government has been taking political decisions in favour of the great interests installed, to which it submits everything else, including the national interest. It will not be by chance that this government has broken a consensus which has been achieved in this House over the years, legislating without listening to anyone. No one, therefore, in forest matters, realizes that the government hears, represents and protects the interests of the celluloses. In view of this, it promoted the country's eucalyptus law, whose data on the evolution of the planted species already demonstrate its objective—indiscriminate progress of the eucalyptus.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u81	That is why the Minister for Agriculture is not here today!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u82	Does this have implications for forest fires? Of course you do! Promoting monoculture of a forest species—it is proven by life! — to promote forest fires. Another measure for the taste of cellulose is the attack on the buckets, decaracturing them, opening up the possibility of legal trade and facilitating their extinction. Baldies that are fundamental elements for the fixing of populations within the country. This is another effective problem. Without people in the territories that cultivate the shores of the banks, which intertwine the fields cultivated with the forest plots, fires have open space for their progression. But the Government promotes the economic models of concentration, of increase in scale, of industrial agriculture, which do not need people in the territory, and all this will have implications for this problem. Another thing the government doesn't do is move in the wood business. The price at which wood is paid determines the species that grow and today the profitability is almost exclusive of the eucalyptus. So the pinhais and the assembled retreat, as the eucalyptus advances. There are no incentives for the planting of noble woods or supply of other sectors, but that of the paper folder. The existence of a duopoly in the wood business has everything to do with low prices. These are the low prices leading to the abandonment of parcels and the failure to implement management measures. The Government, which in principle did not want to get involved, leaving its resolution to the markets, already assumes that such intervention is necessary and has announced a PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ) for forests. But if you are as successful as you have with PARCA for the relations between production and distribution, the country will continue to burn! The forest is a good thing for our country. For it not to burn, it must be valued and must create value that stimulates its proper management. Forest policies must respond to this, and so far they have not done so. Without this very concrete option, every million available can be invested in combat, which the forest will always burn. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u83	On behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, it was agreed to leave two or three notes concerning what has happened here. First of all, it has been clearly demonstrated here that there is a clear and unequivocal policy to support the financing and equipment of firemen, which is objective, is quantified and is being implemented, whether in the context of financing, operation, equipment, with means of land and air travel, or even in the equipment itself of firemen's barracks. And it is significant the example of interventions in fire stations by this country outside, with the obviously support of the state, the authorities, the corporations. Therefore, it is this joint work that has been done throughout the country, and which, of course, must be valued here. It has also been clearly demonstrated here that it is a clear bet of the government, with regard to firemen, their training, their equipment and training in order to, above all, protect the lives of firemen and protect them in their work, particularly in forest fires. It has also been mentioned here that there is a clear intention of the Government to implement permanent intervention teams with firefighters, which are very necessary and very fundamental in terms of the issue of forest, the issue of forest fires and the question of their prevention and combat. It has also been clearly demonstrated — it has even been recognised by the Socialist Party itself during the debate — that, on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea, there has been a clear commitment to forest. with regard to the RDP, there is an increase of 13, 2 % in respect of the PRODER, forest investment to EUR 555 million in public expenditure, contrary to the previous EUR 442 million. There is a clear commitment here, on the part of the Ministry and for the first time, to the creation of trade organisations of forest producers, in order to value the forest product, and the forest can also have a sustainable income. There is clearly here, and for the first time also a forest option in the 2020 PDR, with regard to the prevention of biotic and abiotic agents, as it will now open this second fortnight of March. With regard to 2015 and within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is worth noting that there will be a re-equipment of the current forest slag teams with 39 cars and more 300 motors for these teams that are already in operation. But there is also a bet on the establishment of 20 new forest slag teams, which is significant in view of the effort that this determines. There is support for the creation of ZIF (forest intervention zones). There is clearly new tax measures in respect of tax issues for the forest area: either in the context of VAT, with a reduced rate for forest actions subject to this reduced rate; either in the framework of the flat-rate VAT regime for small forest producers; or through the eight fiscal measures under the Tax Benefit Statute; or in the framework of the IRS, which may divide the value of income for a temporary period up to 25 years; either with the reduction or exemption of the IMT in the case of acquisition of ZIF buildings and also in the adjacent buildings with forest management plans; or in the context of the seal tax and its exemption under the same conditions. Finally, Mr President and Mrs Minister, I am referring to a fundamental measure which has been operating in the field of agriculture and which, we hope, now becomes operational in the context of the forest, which is the PARF — The Forest Forest Reports Monitoring Platform, a forest resources monitoring platform, so that the different agents in the forest can be understood as a way of valuing forest production, forest products again, so that through the economy, through forest yield, the forest becomes of a different value, becoming considered a relevant economic activity. in this respect, I also leave a note for consumers of forest products, either in biomass or in the production of wood for the installed industry, in the production of paper pulp. It is that we often say that it is diabolizing the forest with some forest resources,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u85	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u86	...but, downstream, we then have the industry, which needs raw material to produce. And if we do not produce it in one year, it will have to be imported, so we need to have the forest area returned as well. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u87	On behalf of the PS, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between 2006 and 2013, public policies impacting the forest sector cost the country EUR 1020 million. It was EUR 560 million in State budget and EUR 460 million in Community funds, the Permanent Forestry Fund and, residually, the Portuguese Carbon Fund. But the curious thing is that at all costs 75% were applied in actions related to forest fire prevention and combat, 17% were to support forest investment and 8 % to pay to forest producers per generation of public goods. This means a tremendous concentration of public policy efforts in forest fires, a sub-investment that begins to be chronic and that prevents the replacement of productive potential in all rows and an underestimation of the value of public goods that society attributes to the forest. It is clear that these are not economic signs that stimulate a model change and a change in the mobilization of agents in the field for better forest management. With this government, all emphasis was placed on fighting when it was required that it had made, at the same time, an irreversible and accelerated bet on forest policies and structural prevention. He didn't! In three years, it cut 200 million euros of PRODER funds; the Permanent Forest Fund lost 30 % of funds; the Portuguese Carbon Fund released less than 1 % of the total for the forest; the Biodiversity Fund exists only a little more than it is on paper. All this beyond the mess that goes on approval of forest projects for 2015. By 2015, until June, 979 applications, amounting to EUR 120 million, had not been evaluated and had not been approved. Until November 2014, more than 1200 applications, amounting to EUR 150 million, were not analyzed and much less approved. This is, today, in the Ministry of Agriculture, 2100 applications worth EUR 250 million for approval for prevention in Portugal. We recognize that there is an increased effort in the formation, logistics and individual protection of firefighters. These are certainly positive elements. The leadership in the leadership and command of ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ), after successive changes, better know the device and the mechanisms of action. But there are still issues to be resolved in the short term, in particular the stability in the mobilization of air and land resources and the model of the financing of firearm bodies, which must be done according to its typification and the structural risk of the region in which it is inserted. The PS has come to argue that it is necessary to give greater rationality to the organization of prevention and combat, for which it is necessary a device with better coordination, installed according to the risk, and a structure that gains scale in the territory. We have also argued that the device should be more stable and more adequate, and it is essential to increase its professional component by extending the scope to the entire continental territory of the Special Fire Force, encouraging the establishment of permanent intervention teams and creating an exception regime for the hiring of firefighters by the authorities. It is essential to move forward with a national programme of self-protection and construction of disaster-resilient communities, inter-regular initiative, involving authorities, forest associations and populations, providing adequate resources and training to develop skills, initiatives and actions to protect and mitigate risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u89	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u90	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that, in this Parliament, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a rare moment of commitment to the adoption of the Forest Fire Report. Its recommendations should be our reference and the Assembly of the Republic should continue to monitor its implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u91	for the PSD, Mr Pedro Lynce has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my first words are to congratulate the Government on the scheduling of this thematic debate on the issue of forest fires, which is of great interest to the Portuguese, and to congratulate, at the same time, the Minister of Internal Administration in a special way, and wish her the greatest happiness. With the debate to be concluded, I note the broad consensus that exists on the subject between all parties with parliamentary seats expressed in the unanimous adoption of draft resolution No 1042/ XII ( 3 ). ( a). Let me point out this parliamentary consensus as a good example for overcoming the great problems that the country is experiencing. Forest fires, being an integral part of the cycle of nature that characterizes the Mediterranean climate, have recently become one of the biggest scourges that have hit our country. There are thousands of hectares that burn every year, in some cases hundreds of thousands, numbers that cover dramatic, economic, environmental and social situations, which will be prolonged for a long time, some even irreparable. The magnitude that the problem has taken and the risks that we run every year, including loss of lives, irreparable damage, requires the fight against fires to be done through an ambitious plan, articulated among all actors, including the chain of command, clarity of priority options, and above all a continuous and sustainable work, giving it maturity, certificate of performance with a high degree of success. The President of the Assembly of the Republic, aware of the importance that the issue was taking, year after year, brought him back to Parliament, dynamizing a working group, encouraging him to go beyond the mere generic conclusions and to work towards solutions at the level of the proposed measures, through understandings with the representatives of the various parliamentary groups. I confess to you that I was proud to be part of this group, because I have always fought for broad consensus for the benefit of the Portuguese and can finally consider myself an active actor. On the other hand, with our work we managed to dismantle that maxim that is so in vogue in our society: "We all like to be part of the problem, but beyond those who dare to move forward with a proposal that are immediately tricked...". It is time to acknowledge the merit of all the proposals and to select what is best for the Portuguese, because the complexity of the world in which we live tells us every day that absolute truths are increasingly rare. Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: If there has been an extended consensus between the various partisan forces, which the President of the Assembly of the Republic has so cherished, we cannot forget the invaluable and permanent collaboration of the various members of the Government — Ministers and Secretaries of State — and of various public institutions, including civil protection, through the speedy transfer of information, presences in hearings and visits and the permanent availability to receive our suggestions, thus making our work stimulating. Although the action that the Government is doing deserves, on our part, the greatest commendations, we cannot fail to highlight the strategy followed by the Ministry of Internal Administration which has contributed much to this success, choosing to improve the plans it has received from its predecessor, through the accumulated experience, rather than what usually happens between us, which we prefer in most cases to start all over again. For the sake of the country, it is time for us politicians to assume our responsibilities, assuming what is right, even if done by others, and criticizing what is wrong. The Portuguese demand so! Today, in view of the strategy followed by the then Minister of Internal Administration, we have a sustainable program, built with an extended collaboration, the result of a experience of more than 10 years, which, from an operational point of view, will respond in full when called for intervention. The existence of the programme does not, however, eliminate the emergence of fires every year, as this is an intrinsic element of the ecological system in which we live, nor does it allow us to forget how much there is to do. We are, however, convinced that we are prepared to fight fires more effectively and to ensure greater security for people, firemen and populations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u93	by the Government, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the decade ended in 2011, per year, they burned in Portugal 144 000 ha, of which more than 50 % were burned in forest settlement. This figure corresponds to more than the European average and, more worrying than that, corresponds to a value greater than the average of the Mediterranean countries which have characteristics similar to ours. This fact, which is a clear fact, together with what is evident today at the level of climate change that makes this type of natural phenomena even more unpredictable than what they are of course, makes the concerns of a country with the natural characteristics of Portugal have to be fundamental and structural concerns. First of all, there has to be concerns about the resilience of the territory, concerns that go through forest planning. These are the priorities of the next Community Support Framework. This means that within the framework of Portugal 2020 and the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ), the resilience of the territory is exactly the area chosen as a priority to receive such support, because it is very important that we channel this European support for what is more structural and more concrete in Portugal. It is also essential for us to be able to respond to this problem, which is national. Other areas have been mentioned here. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia had the opportunity to speak on the issue of awareness-raising. It is essential for the country to be able to respond to the problem of forest fires, that we all know the importance of this problem and that goes a long way, it is true, by reducing the negligent causes of many of the forest fires. That is why it is important to highlight the work that has been done at the pedagogical level by the National Civil Protection Authority in the training actions of teachers who, because they are free, have a very great incentive for teachers to adhere to them—and have had a very significant adherence in recent years, which, in a training logic of trainers, is very relevant for reaching the new generations. On the other hand, the role of the district operational commanders in their relationship with the autarchs and with the populations, in the formation of the autarchs, in particular of the autarchs of parish, is also essential for this training to reach the populations. On the other hand, projects, such as the Safe Forest project, meet the closest awareness of those who have a direct relationship with the forest. We also consider it essential to align incentives in this area, to enhance the economic value of forests, to maximize investment in prevention to enable the stabilization of investment in combat, the importance of monitoring and the importance of awareness. in recent years, there have been a number of realities, some of them sometimes forgotten, which is important to remember. From the point of view of payments during the fire season, payments to fire companies were stabilized, and in the last year these payments were made at the end of each month. Here was raised the problem of the treasury management of firearm corporations. Because this is a factor that contributes greatly to this stabilization. Human resources have been strengthened either in the number of teams or in the number of operations, or in the daily payment that is made to these operators. There has also been a strengthening of material resources, with a clarification of what is the commitment of tracking machines and the facilitation of their mobilization. Similarly, reinforcements were carried out at air media level, with successive contests and contracts that enabled the air device to be stabilized by 2018, while allowing a working group, involving the National Civil Protection Authority, the Air Force and the INEM, to work on what might be the model of air media management from 2018 onwards. in this plan was included the annual participation of amphibious heavy aircraft that were long claimed and that Portugal did not have, which made nine of the last 11 years we had to resort to international support. Whether through multi-year recruitment in the first phase or through acquisition in the second phase, the participation of these air resources in the Firefighting Device is also stabilized. at the level of retraining and construction of equipment, it is important to stress that there was also a significant investment in fire stations, logistics bases and air media centres, which makes the infrastructure network that supports this whole system a network with much greater response capacity at the moment. This investment was also reflected in the level of cars and other material means committed. The recognition of the specificity of the nature of the Portuguese firefighters, an essential element of the Device, and the valorisation of volunteering also led to measures such as health support, participation in the payment of student firefighters' props and their children, increased insurance premiums and investment in individual protective equipment at a difficult time. It was several times asked here which number of personal protective equipment will be available. The government's commitment was always the same: until the end of the legislature, 100 % of Portuguese firefighters will have individual protective equipment. That's the goal, we don't want a smaller percentage. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The competitive procedures advance at different speeds because they respect the legal requirements. What we are doing as much as possible — and we will have more concrete information when we present the Device — is that, at the level of distribution, we can make a careful distribution so that those who are on the ground already have these equipment in time. As we know, they do not go to the ground, in the fight against forest fires, 100 % of firefighters and this management will be done so that as much as possible of those on the ground have that equipment and, if possible, from the beginning, 100 %. I would also like to say, with regard to the financing, which has been much talked about, that the financing law will exist with the commitment of the central administration to carry out an increase of more than 10 %, since we believe that the current funding is insufficient. We also know that the current criteria are inadequate, so we will promote an amendment of the criteria. The funding will be allocated to firefighter corporations on the basis of five clear criteria: territory, population, risk, number of occurrences and number of elements of the active framework. That is, everything that is relevant to the reality of a fireman's body will be weighed on the financing scheme. This will correspond to a better adequacy of resources, with a safeguard: no fire corporation will stabilize its financing, all will increase. The difference will be that some will increase more than others according to these criteria. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Even if the formula had this consequence, it would be tremendously unfair, at a time like this, to withdraw or stabilize funding to any corporation. There are also issues related to the hierarchical organization of the Device, issues that will be discussed in this Parliament as part of the revision of the Basics of Civil Protection Act. We will put forward an open proposal because we believe that there are many issues that must benefit from an extended speech. The idea is not to predominate a vision that is one of a government or one of the civil protection agents, but to promote a deep debate in Parliament so that the system works on the ground. We intend that the system that works on the ground be the one that can generate greater consensus in the discussion here we do, certainly hearing later, within the parliamentary framework, all those who intervene directly. We have had the opportunity to solve some clear problems that have led to the situations mentioned here. in the case of the financing of firefighter bodies, we all know the importance that the health sector has for the treasury management of firefighter bodies. That is why we follow with concern some of the phenomena and, along with the health area, we are solving them to ensure that hospital payments are also made in time and that their delays do not cause problems in the management of firefighters' treasury. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] However, structurally, we have taken other measures. The amendment to the Regulation on the Transport of Patients has made it possible to stabilize what is one of the essential sources of funding for firearms. We have solved a problem that arose and is linked to the fact that part of the current financing of firearms was involved in an inadequate regulation in relation to what this relief provision is. It was also mentioned here the problem of forest guards resulting from the transfer of this body to the GNR. We had the opportunity to approve recently the portal on the burden of SEPNA's forest body (Natural and Environmental Protection Service), giving dignity to a body that had lost it since it left another regular area and had been integrated into the GNR. We are with trade union structures discussing the review of the status and career of forest guards, precisely because we understand that their integration into the GNR deserves to be done with all dignity. We know that the Portuguese system, at firefighter level, is based on a specificity that cannot be seen as not an opportunity. The fact that the Portuguese system relies on the generosity and dedication of volunteer fire fighters enables the State to spare extraordinary resources. Therefore, the State cannot have any other attitude than the recognition of this specificity and the return of this generosity of the Portuguese firemen. This is what we seek to do at every moment, whether it is funding, whether it is training or operational training, because who is a volunteer does not have to be condemned to volunteerism. Who is a volunteer must have all the conditions to exercise this volunteerism with the professionalism that firemen have, but also with the conditions that they have to be given. That is why, in anticipation of a debate which we will soon have in this Parliament on the Device for this year, I would like to stress this specificity in a context of a national consensus which has been promoted by this Parliament with the resolution adopted here. It is an excellent example of joint work. It was good that, with regard to forest fires, which, as I said at the outset, was still very much a condition of what our claim is as a developed country, we had the ability to promote this consensus, to reduce the burning areas, but above all to ensure the safety of those who fight fires. Therefore, the last word that the Government leaves in this debate, approaching another time of fire and a more critical phase, is of enormous confidence, but above all, of great gratitude to all those who participate in this device. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the problem of forest fires is concluded. I take the time to also wish Mrs. Minister of Internal Administration, who intervened in the Plenary for the first time, the greatest happiness. We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of draft law No 793 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 59 / 90 of 21 November — Administrative autonomy of independent bodies operating with the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). As expected, the draft law does not have time, so we move on to the statutory voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 199 presences, to which 2 are added ( PSD Member Pedro do Ó Ramos and PS Member Antonio Braga ), and 201 Members therefore we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 254 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of PSP agents Ricardo Filipe Santos and João Carlos Lopes Rainho ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality informed the Bureau that the members of the Government would remain in the Chamber to associate themselves with this vote on behalf of the Government. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will do the favor of reading the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u96	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « in the past 4. the fair, on February 25, the country was confronted with the news of the death of PSP agents Ricardo Filipe Santos and João Carlos Lopes Rainho, while pursuing two suspects who escaped next to the train line. in a curve of the line, and unopinedly, both would end up being taken mortally by a train, near the station of Bobadela. These two young agents who lost their lives in fulfilling their duty, in safeguarding people and goods that were their function to protect, were both under 30 years old, both were at the beginning of their careers, both had a lifetime ahead. They have lost it in the service of all of us, and therefore deserve our eternal thanks. The statistics published annually in the internal security reports show that this is unfortunately a good reality in the daily lives of security forces officers involved in specific missions, monitoring missions, or even in events recorded in street patrols and where it can be seen that in the last 20 years about three dozen police were killed in service. But, and above all, these numbers do not, in any way, reflect the family dramas that these deaths bring with you, and it is for the close relatives of both who are going, at this moment, our words of sorrow and our vow of courage in this difficult time. in these terms, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of agents Ricardo Filipe Santos and João Carlos Lopes Rainho, to whom it pays tribute, and addresses to his family and the Public Security Police respectes condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u97	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. We are now voting on two requests submitted by the PS and the CDS-PP and PSD, respectively, for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Direct, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for a period of 30 days, relating to the projects of lein.o 607 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by promoting the extension of the system of exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of absence, disability, impediment or death of parent ( PS ) and 786 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code on Parental Responsibilities ( CDS-PP and PSD ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The two bills are down to 1. the Commission, without a vote, for 30 days. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1273 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defense of the medical-surgical emergency at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We voted for draft resolution No 1276 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the services available at Santa Luzia Hospital, Elvas ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1278 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by improving the Hospital de Santa Luzia in Elvas, and in defense of users' access to health services ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 756 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of bankruptcy and executive sales of property by tax debt ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 787 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates an exceptional process of suspension of penhoras and coercive sales of dwellings by tax debt ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mr Pedro Roque asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u98	Madam President, it is to announce, for these last two bills, that Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares and I and Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u99	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote on draft resolution No 1258 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to protect the fishing sector for sardine and fishery fishers and tankers ( CFP ). The PS has asked for a separate vote on a set of incisions in this draft resolution and, as many are, perhaps it is clearer, especially Srs. PS Members, we all vote separately. [[Pause.]] As there is no objection, we shall begin by voting on point 1 ( a ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote on point 1 ( b ) shall follow. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on point 2 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We are now voting on point 4 ( a ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 4 ( b ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on point 4 ( c ). [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1277 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to support, assess and protect the measles fisheries sector ( BE ). The PSD requests a separate vote on point 1. We shall therefore vote on point 1 of this draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall now vote on the remaining points of this draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the sardine fisheries sector ( PS ). At the request of the PSD, we shall vote first on points 2 and 3 and then on the remaining points of the draft resolution. Let us therefore vote on points 2 and 3. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We shall now vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1243 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Stability and financing of the specialized artistic education network ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1259 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regularization of funding to be allocated to specialized artistic educational establishments and the promotion of measures to ensure the compensation of increased charges resulting from the delay in the transfer of funds and to prevent further delays in contracts to be carried out in subsequent school years ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We will now vote on draft resolution No 1256 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — National programme for the enhancement and expansion of the public network of specialized artistic education ( CFP ). At the request of the PS, we will vote on it in two blocks. The first block includes points 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, which we shall now vote on. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We are now voting on the remaining points, namely points 2, 3 and 4 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1268/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Regularization of payments to specialized artistic schools ( The Greens ), with a request from the PS to be voted separately on point 5 of the draft resolution. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 5. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall now vote on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 788 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills — PACC(BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The next vote concerns draft resolution No 1275 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the current application and the assumptions of the knowledge and capacity assessment test ( PACC ) ( PS ). The Left Block calls for a separate vote on points 1 and 2 of the draft. Let us therefore begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens and abstention from the CFP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP, CCP, BE and Os Verdes were rejected and the PS voted against the PS.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u101	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u102	All right, get registered. We will now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 793 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 59 / 90 of 21 November — Administrative autonomy of independent bodies operating with the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed with a vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power on the proposal for a law No 267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September 2013 establishes the legal regime of local authorities, approves the status of inter-municipal entities, establishes the legal regime for the transfer of State powers to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities and approves the legal regime of local associations ( ALRAA ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this final text, we are going to have to take the votes that have been taken in the Commission, in particular, and therefore it does not seem very curious to us that voting should be done by electronic voting. thus, we would reserve the electronic vote for the overall final vote. Having agreed on all the benches, that's what we'll do. We shall therefore first proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the votes taken in the Commission, in the speciality of that final text. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Therefore, the vote at the Commission's place of business was formally taken by the plenary. Let us now proceed to the comprehensive final vote on this final text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed the final overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 263 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February, the first amendment to Decree-Law No 299 / 99 of 4 August, and the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 317 / 94 of 24 December. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u103	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u104	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u105	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u106	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the overall final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on the proposal for a law No 209 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of access and exercise of the activity of Tauromachian artist and Tauromachian show assistant. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the Greens, of 3 PS (Isabel Santos, Pedro Delgado Alves and Rosa Maria Albernaz) and 1 CDS-PP (João Rebelo) and abstentions from the PCP, BE and 6 PS (António Cardoso, Carlos Enes, Eduardo Cabrita, Inês de Medeiros, Manuel Mota and Pedro Nuno Santos).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u107	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u108	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u109	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I and Mr Manuel Mota will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-27.u110	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after we have finished our work, we must announce the agenda for the next plenary meeting, which will take place on Wednesday, 4 March, for 15 hours. the agenda consists of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 279 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, updating the definition of terrorism, 280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), laying down new grounds for the granting of nationality by naturalization and for the opposition to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality, 281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 101 / 2001 of 25 August establishing the legal regime for actions covered for the purpose of prevention and criminal investigation, allowing all illegal acts related to terrorism to be included in the actions covered, 282 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January establishing measures to combat organised and economic-financial crime in order to cover all crime related to terrorism, 283 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 52 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 ( Counter-Terrorism Act), criminalising public apology and displacement for the practice of the crime of terrorism, 284 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 11 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory, amending the grounds for the granting and cancellation of visas and for the application of the ancillary expulsion penalty, 285 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended third Act No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Criminal Investigation Organization Act in order to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism and 286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, amending the composition of the Higher Council for Internal Security and the organization and operation of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit and draft Law No 797 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 25 / 2008 of 5 June ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Law No 287 / XII ( 4 ) will be considered in general. ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 2 minutes.]]
