ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Mrs. Members, today's agenda results from a marking of the CFP under Article 64 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, for the assessment of draft resolution No 1533 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — It proposes measures aimed at defending the public, universal and solidarity of social security, adequate financing of the social security system and transparency in the use of its financial resources ( CFP ). Before we begin the debate, I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 998 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Shorten legal deadlines for elections to the Assembly of the Republic and eliminate unjustified ineligibility of citizens with dual nationality ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 999 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, which adequately regulates the organisation of the register of interests of its stakeholders ( PS ), which also falls to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u3	Now, yes, let's start our order of business. To present draft resolution No 1533 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country is not condemned to opt between a cut in reforms of EUR 600 million already, as proposed by PSD and CDS, or a cut in reforms in the future, as proposed by the PS. We do not ignore that social security faces challenges regarding its future, but it is important to say that the alarms created by PSD, CDS and PS around the financial unsustainableness of social security are false. The CFP, with this debate, conveys a very clear message: social security is sustainable in the future and can improve the conditions and quality of life of those who have reformed themselves or are unemployed if the necessary measures are taken to ensure their financing. The CFP today promotes a positive agenda on the financial sustainability of social security and we want to make it clear, as soon as this debate begins, that we are not dealing with the non-contributory system of social benefits, such as social inclusion income, the solidarity complement for the elderly and other poverty reduction benefits, which must be financed exclusively by the State budget and whose scope and amounts must be expanded and improved. what we are dealing with today is, exclusively, the social security system, that is, the system that deals with the reforms and social protection of workers and which results from their discounts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents a set of solutions aimed at strengthening the financial sustainability of social security by strengthening its funding and transparency in the use of its resources, proving that there is a path that does not pass through the courting of workers' rights and reformed but, rather, by increasing revenue. The CFP does not use the problems that right-wing policy creates for social security, as they do PSD, CDS and PS, to justify the cuts they want to make, rather, the CFP defines the objectives and missions that the social security system should have, such as reducing the age of reform, increasing and valuing pensions and reforms and extending and strengthening social protection to the unemployed, and proposes measures to achieve them. The first set of proposals goes through economic policy options. in fact, the main threat to social security is not the increase in average life expectancy or expenditure on reforms, but the right policy leading to recession, which promotes an economic model based on low wages and precariousness, which promotes unemployment. Unemployment is a pressure factor on social security, since it implies less revenue and more expenditure, which, if used as an instrument for lowering wages, such as PSD, CDS and PS, leads to degradation of living conditions and has a dual negative effect on social security. Precautionaryness, in addition to exacerbating injustice and exploitation, leads to successive cycles of employment and unemployment, low incomes and often the impossibility of paying contributions, which compromises the financing of social security. The low-wage strategy, attacks on the rights of workers, as well as attracting more and more workers to poverty, implies less and less revenues and contributions to social security. That is why the structural response to social security financing must go through a policy that ensures rights employment, eradicates precariousness and ensures the overall increase in wages. But at the immediate point of view, it is possible to consider other measures to strengthen the financing of social security. It is urgent to stop the use of the money of workers and the social security system for purposes other than them. In addition to improper use of workers'discounts, successive PSD/CDS and PS governments have promoted numerous exemptions and reductions in the single social rate ( TSU ), causing social security to lose more than EUR 500 million per year. It is necessary to eliminate differentiated rates, contributions and contributions of companies to social security, ensuring the existence of an effective single social rate. Modernisation of the contribution system is necessary, with the aim of diversifying sources of funding. Created about 40 years ago, the contribution scheme only takes into account paid wages. It happens that today there are many companies that, by producing a lot of wealth, have few workers, so they do very little for social security. The CFP therefore innovates and modernises and proposes that, in addition to wages, social security financing be complemented by contributions from large companies, based on the added value and part of the revenue of a tax to be created on the financial transactions carried out in the stock market. It is possible to increase the revenue of social security with an effective fight against fraud, evasion and debt to social security. Despite government propaganda, debt to social security has not ceased to increase. Since 2010, with the troika PS, PSD and CDS, debts have increased almost EUR 4 billion, reaching the astronomical amount of EUR 9 billion. It is also necessary to articulate the fight against work precariousness with the recovery of social security revenues, as well as to eliminate contributions based on fictitious incomes, as is the case with workers at green receipts. Finally, there is no financial sustainability without transparency in social security accounts. Since the non-publication of accounts, through the non-publication of disaggregated information on the financial situation of the various social security systems, various data have been omitted by successive PS governments, PSD / CDS, with the aim of omission. The CFP presents a set of measures aimed at ensuring the transparency of accounts and timely disclosure of all relevant information. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD, CDS and PS announce, decades ago, the imminent failure of social security, using fear to discredit the public system, in order to privatize them and impose measures such as ceilinging, i.e. the diversion of part or all of workers' contributions to banks and insurance companies, to speculate and work with the money that is from the workers. International experience shows that many of the private pension funds went bankrupt, leaving thousands of workers without the right to reform. If there is a system that is unsustainable, where workers' reforms are at risk, this system is the private pension funds, which speculate in the stock exchange with the money and the workers' future. The main threat to the financial sustainability of social security is right-wing policy. With the solutions presented here today, the CFP shows that it is possible to ensure the financing of social security, that it is possible to guarantee, strengthen and even expand the protection of workers, and these are fundamental objectives to build a more just and supportive society. Social security has already proved capable of resisting the hardships that right-wing policy places on it. There is political will, implementing the solutions presented by the CFP here, the public system, universal and solidarity of social security has all the conditions to be a financially sound system capable of protecting current and future generations of workers. As we have stated in our draft resolution, social security is not of any government, it is of whom it works. Breaking the right-wing policy, taking into practice the solutions proposed by the CFP for social security, it is possible to face the future with hope and confidence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u5	Mr. Jorge Machado, for clarification Mr. Armenio Santos. You have the floor, Mr. Armenio Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u6	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Machado, the honourable Member here made an intervention, in line with this draft resolution, which is somehow seeking to take stock of the measures presented by the Portuguese Communist Party throughout this legislature. It was a balance sheet for election purposes, it was a balance sheet that brought nothing back to the proposals that the Portuguese Communist Party has come here to present. But we look at the social security system, as a system of participation, of intergenerational solidarity and an irreplaceable instrument to promote social justice and human dignity, with a sense of responsibility such that we cannot fail to take advantage of this initiative of the CFP to issue our opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u8	The financing of social security is too serious, because it affects people's lives—and people's lives when they are in a situation of greater fragility—... [[Doesn't look like it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u9	...and obliges everyone to get involved in the search for a response to this funding and to break off a little bit of the party shirt that we have well stuck to our body. And the proposals put forward by the Portuguese Communist Party here, Mr. Jorge Machado, I am sorry to say, have little to do with this commitment attitude, with this willingness to find a compromise. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u10	You must have read nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u11	V. Exa said, in the gallery, that since 2010 there has been a contributing deficit in social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u12	I didn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u13	In 2002 the revenue reached around 10 billion and the pensions were about 8 billion; the year 2010 was the first year in which the social security system's contribution deficit occurred. Why? Because in 2009 there were elections and we all know how the Socialist Party at the time resorted to the instrument of social security to somehow seek electoral support. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u14	After what happened in 2011, with the crisis in which we were and the consequences of which we still suffer, of course, the social security system was called on to assume responsibilities as never before. And it replied well, since the stability of the system has never been called into question, not only because the current government has made transfers under the Basic Social Security Act but also because it has made extraordinary transfers, in the order of 4500 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u16	That is to say, on the part of the current government, which you so much criticise, there was care, there was a sense of responsibility so that there would not be a situation of rupture, of breach of trust, of breakdown of the capacities of our social security to assume its responsibilities before the beneficiaries of the regime. Now, Mr President, the concrete question I would like to put to you, because it is a very serious matter and it is easy for us to get to the rostrum and say what Mr has said, and even other things, easier and more friendly, for the citizens with difficulties, out there, to hear — that is very easy, the problem is to build solutions! — it is quite simply this: the CFP is available, after the elections and forgotten the electoral chimeras, to help build a more solid and fairer solution of financing social security or, as so far, the CFP maintains an inflexible attitude to favour easy criticism and always excludes itself from any... [[PCP protests.]] ... do I repeat, do I always exclude from any commitment that gives notice of, in fact, the true interests of workers, families, reformers and the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u18	We are talking about the current beneficiaries and future beneficiaries Question: the PCP is available to take off your shirt and your easy speech, I'm sorry to tell you, demagogic... [[PCP protests.]] ... and find a solution for the present and, above all, for the future of our social security or, on the contrary, continues to be intertwined in their practice, which we all know? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u19	It is, Mr President, that the Portuguese Communist Party usually presents itself here speaking as the owner of the social rights core of which the Portuguese enjoy. The Portuguese Communist Party presents itself here with a will and a political authority as if, in fact, what the Portuguese people today...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u20	Mr President, it is true that you are spending your party's time, but the time available for request for clarification is already exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u21	I'm done now, Mr. President. But I was saying that the Portuguese Communist Party used to present itself here as an arauto of social rights and almost as a owner of these same social rights. Now, it is good to know, it is good for the Portuguese to know that of all the social rights that exist, enshrined in law — everyone! — none of them were voted in favour here by the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u22	You must comply with the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u23	None, Mr. Deputies! I repeat, none, sir! The social state that the Portuguese enjoy is fruit and is worthy of three benches and it is good for the Portuguese to know that it was not the Communist Party, it was not the Left Block, which they always voted against, they always criticized, they were always on the side of deconstruction. [[PCP and BE Protests]] Who built the social model that Portugal enjoyed... [[It was the people!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u24	...it was the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist Party and the CDS-PP. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[They've destroyed!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u25	To reply, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u26	Mr President, Mr. Armenio Santos, we want to make an explanation: it is that those who have conquered public, universal and solidarity social security...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u27	It was the Portuguese people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u28	...the workers, on 25 April 1974, were not the parties to the right-wing policy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was not the right-wing parties, who today are the main threat to the financial sustainability of social security and take measures to destroy it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Then Mr.Armenio Santos said that the CFP is nothing new. Mr President, you have not heard our speech, of course! ... What we say is that there is a need for economic options that do not go through rising unemployment, recession, emigration, precariousness and low wages, PSD policy, CDS-PP and PS when they are in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u29	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u30	These policy options cannot continue and action can be taken immediately. Mr. Armenio Santos didn't you hear? I repeat this again: the misuse of workers' money, reductions in the single social rate that their government has promoted, which implies more than 500 million euros of damage to social security! Didn't you hear? Oh, my God! Open... The CFP proposes measures to modernise the contribution scheme. Today, the wealth created is not linked to workers' wages, but to profits, to the speculation of large economic groups, and these profits must contribute to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u31	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u32	You didn't say a word about that. You know why? Because its solution to social security is cuts and more cuts about who works. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u33	There's no other proposal! But more: we say that we need to fight fraud and debts to social security. There are EUR 9 billion in social security debt. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u34	With its Government and the PS Government, in 2010, in 2011 and 2013, debt to social security increased more than EUR 4 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u36	Aren't you ashamed of that? Oh, my God! Don't you have to fight this debt? If you fight this debt, you have money for social security. But more: Mr President, you have no chance of saying that the issue is too serious. Well, that's what we say! Because the PSD and CDS-PP government treats social security in all but in a serious way. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] But more: it creates fear in people, because they were cut behind cuts, with cuts in reforms and uncertainty in people's lives. Those who treat social security in an irresponsible way are right-wing policy over the last 39 years. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] But more: it says that social security has a broken situation. Because he has a situation of difficulty, he does not have a rupture, and he has already proven himself capable of resisting. And I ask him: who created the difficulties of social security? Was it or not the economic crisis that was created by the PSD, by the CDS, with its economic options? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is that they were the PSD and the CDS-PP, with their economic options, who have created difficulties for social security and now use the difficulties that social security goes through not to solve the problems but to justify new cuts on who worked or worked, throughout a lifetime, which is a shame and is unacceptable to the Communist Party. Ask, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, PSD commitments. And the CFP is available for the commitments, Mr. We are not available for commitments to right-wing policy, the policy of cuts in rights aimed at attacking social security to deliver workers' money to private banks, pension funds. These commitments, we don't make them! The solemn commitment we make here in the Assembly of the Republic here is the commitment to workers in the defence of public, universal and solidarity social security, because that is the only way to guarantee a fair and solidarity country in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u37	Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on social security is today a central debate in Portuguese society. First of all, it is important to reflect on some myths and falsehoods that an uninformed debate has produced. First myth: the social security system is ineffective from the point of view of promoting equity It is false that the social security system is an ineffective system. It is to him that we have important social developments in recent decades and, above all, a historical reduction in the rate of poverty among the elderly. In 1995 the poverty rate of the elderly was 38 %, 17 points above the European Union average and 18 points above the national poverty rate. In about 15 years, the poverty of the elderly fell to values identical to the European average.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u39	We're talking about the welfare system!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u40	It was the maturity of the pension system and specific measures for this population that allowed us to achieve these results, results of rupture with a historical past of poverty, results that cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u42	Second myth: social security is unsustainable. Social security is today an essential component of the social contract and a fundamental instrument for promoting development and even economic growth. Social protection is a means of redistribution of income that stabilizes economic cycles and ensures levels of national and social cohesion in an absolutely irreplaceable way. Despite the difficulties caused by the new economic and sociodemographic challenges, the Portuguese pension system is, from a structural point of view, a viable and sustainable system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u44	Corrected, in the past decade, the distortions that were caused by formulae for calculating pensions that were too exposed to manipulation, inequality and devaluation of the contribution effort and introduced instruments for regulating the system that assimilate part of demographic changes, in particular the increase in life expectancy, can be said to have sound and sustainable rules on the right to protection in old age. Wrong options made in recent years, particularly regarding the sustainability factor, have not, however, been able to challenge the essentials of the system. Today, the problems that arise in terms of sustainability have three main causes: past responsibilities, assumed in periods of lower balance of system rules; the effects generated by a deep retraction of economic activity; and the dramatic worsening of demographic evolution. That is why the answers must be given in terms of economic recovery and, above all, employment recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u46	Employment degradation causes three types of impact on the pension system: breakdown of contribution revenue and increase in performance expenditure; degradation of the quality of contributing careers by shortening, interruptions or withdrawal of wages; breakdown of the future value of pensions by the withdrawal of the training rate and the reference wage The social transfers that take place through the pension system are essential to social balance, must be defended as an essential part of the contract of generations that founded our social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not accept a vision that always stands aside from the reforms necessary to ensure equity, but they will not count on the PS nor break the commitment that the State has made to pensioners, nor to the public, universal and solidarity nature of the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] The third myth: pensions in the future will be very low With reforms carried out between 2000 and 2007, our pension system has become based on the effort of the entire contribution career. Today, this is already the case for many pensioners and in the future it will be the same for all. This change causes the pension to depend on the density of contributory careers (length and wage profile) and not only on the duration and last wages. The formula normally used to measure the adequacy of pensions, the replacement rate, cannot therefore be used mechanically. The rate of replacement will be higher for lower wage routes and careers with low wage progression, and lower, especially, in careers with high progressions or early reforms. For example, the rate of replacement advanced to 2060 in the Report on Ageing ( Report of the European Union on Population Ageing ), which is a 30 % replacement rate, assumes that all people reform themselves three years before their legal age and suffer a cut of less than half of their pension. This is not correct and the nature of early reforms must also be reviewed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u48	A fourth myth: it is not for social security to reduce poverty. Some claim that poverty reduction generated by social security transfers is not real. But that is the way all the economies developed to reduce the level of poverty use. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] in the European Union, the least unequal countries are precisely those who can, in addition to pensions, make extensive transfers to the poorest families. The average poverty reduction value for social transfers is 36 %, reaching values above 50 % in countries such as the Netherlands, Finland or Denmark, countries with the lowest poverty rates in Europe. In Portugal, this reduction is 27 %. It is up to social security, especially in its non-contributory component, which is essential in the system, this role, in a fair and balanced way and ensuring that it is not the contribution revenue to support this effort of equity, as unfortunately has already been a rule in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u50	Fifth myth: reducing paid pensions improves the future sustainability of social security The sustainability of social security needs to be assessed in three complementary dimensions. It must be ensured that, in the medium and long term, the revenue and expenditure of social security are balanced and that the pressure of the system on public expenditure does not call into question the sustainability of public accounts, that is, it is important to ensure the financial sustainability of social protection systems. But this sustainability is achieved only if the pressure on the competitiveness and viability of companies is not questioned, because the ability of the economy is not unlimited at every moment to guarantee the resources necessary for the redistributive function of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u52	Finally, there is no balance if it does not guarantee social sustainability, i.e. if it does not guarantee the levels of cohesion that are the objective and norm of any civilized community. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The policy of reducing paid pensions, which has constituted the central objective of the current majority, is more related to the short-term development of public accounts than to the objective of balancing social security. On the other hand, today, it is recognized the enormous recessive effect this policy has, which limits its effects both on public accounts and on protection systems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, the answers that the country needs are structured into three fundamental axes, with regard to the sustainability of social security. First, it is intended to guarantee the social contract as a civilizational conquest. The defense of social protection cannot be done by calling into question central elements of the social contract that allowed the development of the cohesion levels of our country. Improving the performance of social security cannot be a reason for a 'civil war' between generations of current pensioners, workers in the middle of their professional career and young people seeking to enter active life. The degradation of the living conditions of current pensioners affects much more than the beneficiaries of protection in old age. Directly, this degradation limits the ability of families to respond to the difficulties often of three generations of the same family. Directly, a further reduction in social transfers or a further increase in taxes poses a serious threat to employment levels and our economy's recovery capacity. The crisis has led to a severe increase in social inequalities. It is clear today that it was the two million Portuguese with lower incomes that suffered the greatest degradation of their living conditions. Between 2009 and 2013 the million Portuguese with lower incomes saw 24 % of their income fall—three times more than the million Portuguese with higher purchasing power. To reverse this situation requires two combined answers: economic recovery, especially at the level of employment with stability, and the defence of social minimum policy as a tool for social rebalancing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second central axis — for us, the decisive one — is to diversify the sources of contribution to improve the stability of social security. The economic sustainability of companies, activities and sectors is not compatible with the worsening tax and tax burden. It is therefore not time to strengthen the contribution burden on economic activity, but rather to make the contribution effort more effective, equitable and sustainable. That is why we advocate a contribution diversification on the business side which creates and stabilizes a dimension of contribution to social security at the level of corporate income tax, in parallel with the deterioration of the contribution burden on social security. This is an amendment which must be progressive and limited and which aims to achieve three fundamental objectives. On the one hand, we want to adapt the company's contribution to its economic potential by defusing the wage costs that pose problems to many thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, compensating this deterioration with the allocation of revenue on corporate profits under better economic conditions. On the other hand, we aim to differentiate the contribution burden according to the level of use of precarious and high rotation work, positively differentiating companies with best work practices, penalizing those with excessive recourse to regular and systematic dismissal. This can be an important contribution not only to improving labour relations but also to reducing social security expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want to stabilize the contribution revenue which is too dependent on the fluctuations in the level and quality of pay declarations, which represents one of the typical forms of contribution avoidance. Thirdly, we want to respond to the crisis by improving the economic base of Portuguese society. The structural and conjuncural difficulties of social security are not significantly different from those that mark Portuguese society as a whole. at present, they are linked to the enormous quantitative and qualitative degradation of our employment systems. If the level of employment were the one in this House four years ago, the government planned for 2015, this would only mean an increase in revenue of around EUR 1100 million this year. I repeat : if the 2011 2015 forecast for employment made by the government at this bench had been achieved, the level of social security revenue would be higher by EUR 1100 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from a structural point of view, the brutal degradation of demographic prospects is the greatest challenge facing our society and, of course, the social security system. Between the 2012 ageing report and the 2015 same report, the European Commission estimated that 2025, by 10 years, a reduction in the resident population of 900 000 inhabitants — almost one million people less than, between two separate estimates years only for three years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u53	It's for recording!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u54	And for the same year, for 2025, an increase is expected by 10 % of the population aged over 65 years, more than was expected three years ago. We know the causes of this worsening: the brutal birthbreak of recent years and the unprecedented degradation of migration balances. Once again, the reversal or at least the attenuation of these trends lies in economic recovery, stable and quality job creation. And there is no alternative for this recovery that does not go through a more virtuous combination of family income recovery with the improvement of the specialization pattern of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The essential aspect of improving the financing of social security can only be a consistent improvement in the economy and employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Despite unfavorable demographic prospects, there is today in Portuguese society an essential human potential for recovery. According to data from the National Institute of Statistics, in the first quarter of 2015 there are 1,800,000 potentially mobilized people to strengthen employment and wealth creation. In addition to the more than 700 000 unemployed, there are almost 1 million residents of active age and over 25 years old. The entry or return of a parcel of these people to the labour market must be the central design of Portuguese society in the near future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u56	That is where the essential response to the financing of social security lies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is where Portuguese society has to build its fundamental consensus rather than a propaganda rhetoric that resolves everything with the increase in the tax and tax burden, not in the refusal of reformist management that adapts social protection to the changes in a society where we live longer and longer we remain active. But it will never be in a perspective of individualization of risks, which is socially more unfair and which does not solve any of the economic problems of social protection, it will never be in a logic of reduction of benefits awarded on a definitive basis, whose cut back only uncertainty, recession and more unsustainability, and it will never be in a generational war that breaks the country and compromises social cohesion. There is a need for greater equity in social protection, for strengthening the fight against precariousness, fraud and avoidance and, above all, more support for employment, wages and professional stability. This must be our way, it is the path of the Socialist Party, it is the path that Portugal demands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u57	The Bureau registered three requests for clarification for Mr Vieira da Silva, who will, however, inform whether it intends to respond individually or together. For a request for clarification, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u58	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, I would like to say that I agree with you at all when you say from that rostrum that our social security system and the social contract in which it is based cannot end or result in policies and a debate that ends in a 'civil war' between generations. I think that was a very successful statement, but I must say to you, Mr President, that I think that, for it to be comprehensive and true, we must also recognize that this implies considering the expectations of all those involved in society, in their participation in the same social contract. I think it would also have been a good thing for you to say — but it is only natural that everyone should focus on what is most important for him to say, and I am not, even if I do not think so — that many of the obligations that this Government has had to resolve at the level of debt payments, at the level of its obligations to creditors, have been left behind because six years of the Socialist Party's government have created them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u59	And what does that have to do with the social security system?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u60	The current government would rule much better, as it should calculate, and much more easily, if it did not have to pay deferred expenditure, which you pushed, by way of debt, over current taxpayers and the obligations of the current majority. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u61	And your government did that, Mr. Member, when it freezes pensions, when it freezes the minimum wage and when it cuts into the family allowance. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, even at a time when the Socialist Party ruled and when things were particularly easier, because it did not have so many obligations generated by previous governments nor was it faced with such an adverse international scenario, the Socialist Party also made its choices, Mr. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I think you'll agree with me on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u63	Having said that, the solution presented by the Socialist Party is curious. Mr Vieira da Silva, at the rostrum, said that the solution for social security is not to increase revenue in a tax form. But moments earlier he had said that the problem of social security should be solved by taxation more, or in a different way, in a more effective way, within IRC and placing IRC revenue on social security accounts. Even so, Mr President, considering that today's pensions are paid with today's discounts, and that is why unemployment and emigration have an impact on social security, because if the departure of people from Portugal, for no reason, had an impact on today's accounts, in the future, when they were to claim their reform, they would also be effectively compensated for their departure and, therefore, the effect would be zero on social security, if today, as the Socialist Party proposes, cuts of 600 million, of 800 million — I believe, from 2018 until 2026, a cumulative amount of 14 billion euros in social security revenues — to say after these people in retirement receive less, Mr Member, there is something here, in this account, which is not right. I admit that it is on my side, because I know that I am talking to those who know social security accounts as no one, but let me say that when the Socialist Party left the Government the country was growing in anemia and divergence with the European Union at least a decade ago. Every year the Socialist Party was in government, unemployment was growing. Today, the economy grows above the European Union average, so we have already converged towards the European average, unemployment goes down and employment rises — not to say it is the effect of emigration – and the country can therefore look to the future with much more hope than it could in 2011. So I wanted to ask you, too, what does it guarantee us that if the Socialist Party were for the government now, we would not be in exactly the same situation as we were in 2011? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u64	For a request for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vieira da Silva, after listening to your intervention - and we have done so carefully - we are obliged to conclude that much of the measures you have defended here present exactly the same path as the PSD/CDS Government has done with regard to the courting of pensions and also decapitalisation of social security. And why? Because he confirmed the Socialist Party's proposal for a reduction in the single social rate, knowing the impact this measure has on safeguarding social security. The honourable Member said nothing about the sustainability factor and the urgent need for it to be revoked.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u67	He did not say, but I think it is written in the Socialist Party's electoral programme that the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security should be used for anything, as they called it, of 'accessible housing'. Therefore, the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, which is the workers' discounts, will serve what the government fully understands, less for what should happen, i.e. protecting workers' rights and reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u69	The honourable Member has also chosen to speak of something, saying — I think the expression was more or less — 'we do not follow' or 'we do not defend cuts in pensions on a final basis'. I wonder what that means in concrete. Does it mean that future pensions won't have cuts or does it mean that those you're paying don't have cuts? The CFP believes that no pension should be cut, because the problem of social security is not the problem of workers' discounts, it is the problem of the inadequate use of social security to ensure exemptions to employers, to guarantee contracts under the Financial Stabilisation Fund, which we cannot follow. Mr President, you have chosen not to refer to the CFP proposals, but I would like to know what the Socialist Party's commitment to our proposals has to do with the diversification and expansion of sources of funding for the social security welfare system. He did not mean the Socialist Party's position on the need to create an extraordinary tax on the financial transactions made in the Stock Exchange in order to increase the revenue of the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security. Say here whether the only path that the Socialist Party sees is the sustainability factor or ceiling of reforms or not, if it follows the CFP on this matter. As regards the need for a contribution from companies to social security from net added value, what is the Socialist Party's view on this matter? He well knows that the CFP project refers exclusively to the contribution scheme. But because you referred here to the non-contributory regime and minimum support, there is one question that I will once again have to ask you: recognises the Socialist Party that it is urgent to revoke the condition of resources and the Decree-Law No 70/2010, which was the creation of the Socialist Party and then aggravated by the PSD and the CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u71	To speak in social minorities, but in practice to keep everything as it is and to make commitments to the right proposal is not to defend social security. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u72	For requests for clarification, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Vieira da Silva, spoke to us here in demystification of myths and falsehoods, on a day when the CFP brings to the discussion the sustainability of social security. The first thing I would like to tell you about this is that although the Portuguese Communist Party brings this discussion to plenary because, as the PSD has said from the outset, discussing the sustainability of social security is one of the most important themes that each of us should take into account as political agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u75	But it is also true that, since the beginning of this legislature, the Socialist Party has often said by the voice of Mr Vieira da Silva, that in fact there is no problem of sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u77	After that, recently in electoral programmes and economists' documents, there was already a problem of social security sustainability. I have to tell you that, according to Mr Vieira da Silva's speech, I have doubted whether or not there is a problem of social security sustainability, because such documents will be, I hope, or I imagine, consistent with the solutions presented here say that there is, but Mr Vieira da Silva began by saying that there was no and then it did not even realize whether there was or did not exist. Let's see.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u78	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u79	Regardless of this, we will consider that there is only one problem of social security sustainability—Mr Vieira da Silva said — because there is no job creation on the part of this majority government. But it's a lie, because there's a job creation -- that's what numbers say. In fact, as the honourable Member has said, whether it resides in economic growth and job creation the resolution of this possible, or not, the problem of social security sustainability, if he had said a word about economic growth, which the country already has, and the creation of jobs, which the country has now, would have been at least serious, not to say sympathetic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u81	At least in such programmes of such economists as the Socialist Party has resorted to this is recognized, and it is based on these programmes, in economic growth and in such employment that such scenarios are made, which the Socialist Party then says are the answer to the problem of social security sustainability. But let's imagine you have to grow up, that there must be a job, according to what you said here. Yesterday, he said the leader of the Socialist Party, when questioned by a Portuguese newspaper, which needs to create jobs, defending the revival of the economy. How so? He said that it would be through increased family income, which, in itself, is an absolutely extraordinary measure, but it does not say anything. And he added that it would be with the replacement of wages, with the elimination of the overtax, with the increase of the minimum wage, with the replacement of the minimums, all depending on the increase and the replacement, which is exactly the same thing that led us, Mr. Deputies, four years ago, to the delivery of this country, by your Government, to international creditors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u82	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u83	Besides, I also wanted to tell you that we could still do an exercise. Making the same promises, they say that we will have a different result—following the same paths, it is difficult to expect a different result. But assuming that this was a possibility, what do we know about this form of growth, which has exactly the same bases as before? We know, for example, that the Socialist Party in 2009 deplored the social security balance—of course, it is my responsibility to increase social benefits, as has already been said, which it cut back in 2010. Mr Vieira da Silva, I would like to ask you the following: Mr Vieira da Silva was a Minister for Social Security when he increased the minimum pensions by 2.9 percentage points which — then he was no longer Minister for Social Security, he was Minister of Economics — his party, the Government of which he was a member immediately froze the following year. Since 2005 they have ruled this country. The Socialist Party has ruled the country since 2005. What has changed, which has not been able to predict unless there were elections in Portugal between 2009 and 2010? What's changed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u85	In addition, the Socialist Party is the same party that says that one way to create jobs is to increase the minimum wage and signed a commitment with the social partners that said it would increase the minimum wage in the following year. And not only did he do so before he handed the country over to the troika, as in the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme which he signed, he set a trap for those who would win the subsequent elections to be able to increase the minimum order—in fact, we did so, but after we freed the country. So my question is this: how do we expect different solutions with the same paths, as we have already been asked here? Finally, I would like to say this: we will then assume that there is no sustainability problem. So what does the Socialist Party do without any problems of associated sustainability? It proposes the decapitalisation of social security, as reflected in its electoral programme. In this regard, I wanted to leave you two notes, asking you to take them into account. The Socialist Party's electoral programme envisages two ways of decapitalizing social security...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u86	You have already exceeded the time of your question, although you are spending the time of your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u87	I will finish, Mr. President. The EUR 1400 million that will be withdrawn from the Social Security Financial Stability Fund for urban rehabilitation has already been mentioned here, and then, in that fall of the single social rate, which is expected to be less than EUR 12 billion or EUR 14 billion over the next few years. Mr Vieira da Silva, it is very serious when trying to mask this issue of sustainability in generation wars. It is that discussing sustainability is only important because we need it to be sustainable in order to be able to pay pensions: to me, when you receive them; to my grandparents, who receive them today. I am no less interested in protecting one another or in protecting another, I am concerned that we are not talking about this issue of sustainability solely with electoral effects. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u88	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u89	To reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been so many questions that I hesitate to choose. But there is one issue that, for several benches, and in particular for the right benches, I would like to remember. The ladies and gentlemen. Members make a reading of history at least curious. They say that in 2009 there was no problem in the Portuguese economy, that the government was at the time spending and used social security for support to families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u91	That's objective!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u92	Two memorable questions. One is that 2009 was only the year of the biggest economic crisis in Europe since World War II. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fall in GDP was 4%. Only the gentlemen in 2012 were able to do the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is useful, it is interesting to forget the situation that Europe and the Portuguese economy have lived, but it is not serious. And then they say that the Socialist Party, in the government, used measures to support families. And I ask a question: in 2009, which of the majority banks was against any of these measures? What are these measures that you have opposed? Say one, just one! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you don't just say one, I say others that you proposed more in 2010 to increase expenditure and reduce revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is clear, it's clear. On employment and employment in Portugal, I only use one criticism. And the criticism is respectable, it is from the former Minister of Finance, Vítor Gaspar, who here in 2011 said that this year we would have 4 840 000 jobs. Now, we have 4,540,000, minus 300,000. Do you want to be more critical of the employment results of your government than what has been done in advance by your own government? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes is a relatively linear issue of perception when it is said that these are not the rules of our social protection system that call into question their sustainability and recognize that the external environment — economic, demographic — is a factor that poses problems to sustainability, not just social security, but in many other areas of our collective life. But wanting to move, to change the rules of the low social protection system to respond to problems in other areas, from other sources of our collective life, not only does it not solve the problems of social security as it aggravates imbalances in Portuguese society. [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen can keep screaming whatever you want to keep me from saying what I want. [[Continued PSD protests.]] Mr President, I will have to stop my speech. I hope the clock stops too. Mr. President is not paying attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u93	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please make the necessary silence in order to hear the speaker. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u94	Turning now to the PCP bench and addressing Mrs Rita Rato, I would like to say that there are, in fact, differences between us, and these are important differences. It is true that, with regard to the diversification of sources of funding, with a different solution, we have come closer to some of the perspectives which the honourable Member has advocated here, to have other sources of business income assist in supporting the sustainability of the social security system. But, Madam Member, it is not serious, in our perspective, to hide the problems that demographic evolution puts us and does not recognize that the well-used sustainability factor is a useful tool for the social protection system, and that is why it is being applied in more and more countries. As it is also indisputable that, in non-contributory benefits, particularly those aimed at combating poverty, the condition of resources is not only a necessary factor, it is a factor of fiscal justice, it is a factor of social justice. And the Socialist Party will never abdicate that factor. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u95	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the analysis of the draft resolution of the CFP, it is important to state that, axiologically, we agree on the purposes and principles of the CFP. However ( and unfortunately, as usual in the CFP ), the load, utopian and ideologically, strikingly extrapolates the limits of common sense, overcoming the objective analysis of the facts and thus showing itself unable to consider the real material circumstances and objective possibilities of the world in which we live. The initial good intention quickly fades away in diagnoses, pamphlet proclamations, prognostics and unrealistic solutions, in contradiction with history and economic-financial reality. therefore, it is not enough to subject the ideas to an outdated ideological volunteerism, sailing in sound proclamations, but inexorably inconsequential. instead, the best service we can provide to the social state in general and to social security in particular is to promote its sustainability, through the promotion of a dynamic economy, of disciplined public finances and healthy and strategic vision that takes into account today's pensioners, it is true, but above all, taking into account tomorrow's ones. This intergenerational solidarity is also part of the social contract in which the individual's relationship with the State is based. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u97	And this is all the more important because it reflects an unmistakable reality and to which we are bound: it is in today's asset discounts that the pensions paid to the current beneficiaries are financed. The PCP also fails in this draft resolution by ignoring factors that strongly condition the social security system, such as demographic evolution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u98	It's not demographic, it's economic!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u99	... that presents low and worrying fertility rates in Portugal. It is surprising that there is no single reference throughout the text or even a tenuous manifestation that enables us to anticipate the relationship between birth, demography or fertility and the sustainability of the system. Not even one sample, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u100	The problem is economic!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u101	Another factor is, for example, the increase in average life expectancy, which deserves only one reference, curiously in the sense of denying reality (as usual), i.e. to pretend that there is no causal link between this phenomenon and the sustainability of the system. Let us be clear: increasing the average life expectancy is a civilizational gain. However, in order not to imperil the social security system, it must be reflected in the age of the reform, under the penalty of, in an attempt to embrace easy popularity, we will see the payment of pensions to future pensioners. In the image of the two points above, also the great issue of the ratio between taxpayers and system beneficiaries is olympically ignored in this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u102	The problem is emigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u103	But this is an incontrovertible issue on which we will have to address, setting out factual and indisputable questions, such as the circumstance of : in 2011, the number of people of active age because elderly people were slightly over 3 to 1, having been in the early 60s from 8 to 1 ; in 1960 there was a ratio of 27 elderly people per 100 young people and in 2011 this ratio had invested to 129 elderly people per 100 young people; in 2011 the number of pensioners was 3.5 million, with only 1, 6 assets per pensioner; and finally, the average age of reform of the new old age pensioners decreased by two years, in the last decade (it was in 2011, 62 years ). Well, ignoring these facts is a parallax error, it's distorting the consistency of the data. It cannot be claimed that rhetoric, by itself and as magic, alters reality, by collecting the Messianic cult by belief in such « singing tomorrows», but that they do not solve a single problem for the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are happy, however, to see in the draft resolution a trace of adherence to reality, particularly when the CFP speaks in the "enlargement and diversification of sources of funding", demonstrating that, in spite of everything, something moves in the proverbial communist ideological immobilism. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] If we want, it is a recognition that, after all, the communists no longer find (all at least) the tower of Pisa that is right, but rather the world that surrounds it. Let us be fair: the proposal for diversification is based on an intensive capital company contribution based on its net added value ( VAL ) deserves to be studied. But once again, it is important to curb the excesses of volunteerism. The unilateral introduction by Portugal of such a mechanism may constitute a factor in the loss of competitiveness of its companies vis-à-vis other international companies which do not. The proposal may be valid, if it is framed in a European or international context, to avoid distorting the competitiveness of companies, the wealth they generate and, above all, the employment they support.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u104	You didn't understand anything! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u105	Despite what has been said, the CFP is only here, ignoring other equally valid formulations, such as: greater penalization of early reforms; strengthening the incentive to stay in active life beyond the age of reform; and other perhaps even more daring, but already in common practice in other European countries, where the social state is even older than in Portugal and which have implemented them without jeopardizing the principle of sharing as the basic system of social security building. And they are in this case: the accountability of each citizen, based on a supplementary individual capitalisation of a voluntary or even compulsory character; the establishment of a reasonable maximum amount to be paid by the State to each pensioner.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u106	Closure! Here it is! That's the end of social security!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is also true that the CFP is still right at another point in its project. In fact, he is quite right in the reference to the indisputable proposal for a reduction of the single social rate ( TSU ), contained in the electoral programme of the Socialist Party. In fact, the low design of TSU up to a maximum of 8 % ( almost a quarter of the value of this rate ), although conditional, may represent a fatal blow to the financing and the existence of the social security system in Portugal itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u108	That's the ceiling you're defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u109	This proposal, if implemented, would strongly decapitalize the system which, in order to meet the monthly commitments of more than 3 million pensioners, would have to be compensated for heavy transfers from the State budget, paying even more taxes, deficits and public debt and compromising the agreed targets within the European Union and the euro area. Again, with regard to budgetary irresponsibility, it seems that from Lisbon to Athens to the PS is only a small step. The Socialist Party is therefore not reluctant to decapitalize social security, which is a heritage which is the responsibility of the State to manage, but which essentially belongs to workers who discount their wages monthly for their financing. It seems that we are more facing a programmatic proposal from the IMF headquarters on 19th Street in Washington than from the Long Rat in Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In short, and to conclude, the important thing is that everyone in this House can agree that there is a clear problem of sustainability of the social security system and that we must act on it as quickly and effectively as possible. Certain that we do not want to use the expression « yesterday would be late». For this, we need to achieve an extended social consensus at the level of social consultation. But above all, it is imperative that the parties — all parties — know how to meet their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u111	It is crucial to reject mediatism and, in particular, immediacy. It is necessary to internalize the urgent need to reform the system so that it can respond, in the future, to the solidarity effort that today's contributing generations have made. The longer this reform takes, the more dramatic it will have to be. The PCP, a creditor of the merit of recognizing, however, the existence of a problem, will be all the more welcome to this desire for convergence as well as to know how to abandon its ideological determinism and its inconsequential utopia. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u112	Mr Pedro Roque, three Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The honourable Member shall inform the Bureau of his reply together or separately. Mr David Costa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u113	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, in the Budgetary Strategy Document ( DEO ) presented in April 2014, the Government stated at the time that it intended to replace the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ( CES ), which was then baptized as temporary by nature in the discourse of right and troika policy, by a contribution of sustainability, a measure that would be accompanied by an increase in the single social rate ( TSU ) paid by workers from 11 % to 11, 2 % and by an increase in VAT by 0, 25 percentage points. This measure ended up not to avenge, since in August 2014 the Constitutional Court gave rise to the contribution of sustainability, and the government acknowledged the failure and dropped the other two measures accompanying it. Mr Pedro Roque, the Minister for Finance, said last April 16 after the Council of Ministers which approved the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, that the Government maintained the proposal contained in the Budget Strategy Document ( DEO ) of last year concerning pension reform, although it has already been plunged by the Constitutional Court. It may now be surprising to those who have not listened to the CFP, but now comes the PSD / CDS-PP government to state that it intends to cut 600 million euros in 2016, with a reform of the national pension system. It may now be surprising to those who have not listened to the CFP, but the PS is now proposing measures to reduce TSU for workers, which will necessarily lead to lowering the value of reforms in the future. But whoever looks at the blackmail made about the Greek people, so that their reforms and pensions are cut off, well understands these words of Mrs. Minister of Finance and even better perceives what the CFP has always said: it was though the three people who made up the delegation of the foreign troika, but their policy and guidelines remained here, with the PS, the PSD and the CDS, that is, with the national troika. Mr Pedro Roque, the problem is economical rather than the average life expectancy of the Portuguese. With political will, there is funding. It is all a matter of options and priorities. The CFP here presents valid and coherent alternatives. Social security financing will only be a problem if the parties who worked with the troika — PS, PSD and CDS — want. Social security financing will only be a problem if VV policy. For example, the Troicans defend it for good, if Portugal continues to be faithful to policies that underfinance and undermine social security. in the CFP, we have set clear objectives and we will deal with the appropriate financing of social security. in the CFP, we define objectives, we present and are available to discuss now, before the elections, proposals that protect and safeguard any attempt to cut off our pensioners. The question we have to ask you is simple : is the PSD going through what Mr Prime Minister has described as a structural reform of social security which is agreed with the PS, cutting 600 million euros in the reforms and pensions of the Portuguese people? We have no doubt that with the troika parties, PS, PSD and CDS-PP, we will have a policy of further worsening the living conditions of those who worked and discounted an entire life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u114	Also for a request for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Roque, I think we should even start by talking about ideologically marked solutions. Mr Pedro Roque will excuse me, but we will also have to talk to the PSD about this, because, as we have often said in the Assembly of the Republic, this majority PSD/CDS-PP has a very clear objective, deeply demonstrated by the very diverse proposals it has put forward, which is the construction of a very small state for citizens and a large state for large economic and financial groups. This is also ideological, Mr. Deputies. So let's talk about all the ideological components. It is true that this government has done much to break down and weaken the social functions of the State: it is always seeing how in the area of health it can make private health units bigger; it is always seeing how in the area of education it can make private schools bigger; and, in the area of social security, it is also seeing how to fatten insurers. Mr President, these are ideological issues that mark solutions. That is why, Mr President, I am deeply convinced that the PSD and the CDS-PP are not available to build solutions around the sustainability of social security. I believe that they are available to build problems so that you can never find a viable solution in the midst of the sea of problems that you create. That is why, Mr President, they come with solutions such as the capping of social security, which we know was made in a time of the Socialist Party, but with the support of you. It is also true that you yesterday defended the reduction of the TSU. Today, the honourable Member is saying no, but tomorrow they are defending her again. Mr President, there are then other pseudo-solutions — or real problems — that you are creating with your policies, that are in line with the choice of low-wage policy, policies that promote emigration and lead to the levels of unemployment that we all know and that are structurally marked in both digits. We also highlight the issue of birth, which is related to both the economic conditions of families, and we have had the opportunity to discuss here in a specific debate on the subject. They are political options that lead to these political results that come to decapitalize social security and that have broken the potential of a human capital that the country has just to weaken social security. How do you want to build solutions for social security in this sea of options if you are creating structural problems? Then they can't find another solution! It is normal that, from these problems, they find no other solution than that which we are all used to hearing from this majority. And what is it? It's always the same thing: cuts in pensions! And they say: alas the sustainability of social security, this is not going there...! And they're cutting pensions! 600 million euros? Is that what's coming here, sir? Is the honourable Member able to say in this House what Mr. Prime Minister was confronted with in the 15-year debate and was he not able to say? Is it to cut this dimension? Isn't it to cut this dimension? But be true, sir! Even though we are already on the verge of an election campaign, let it be true and tell the Portuguese truth. You will not be able to build solutions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u116	Let's re-emerge the country, which is much more difficult!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u117	The only thing you do about the social functions of the state is to create problems so that the solutions are not viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u118	Like the ladies. Members have noticed that the Bureau has had some flexibility with regard to the times, insofar as it is going to use its own time, and therefore respects the management that each parliamentary group is doing. You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Mário Ruivo. I call for your maximum synthesis power, Mr President, given that you have little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the time to insist again on the PSD bench and Mr Pedro Roque on an issue that we would like to see clarified quickly. To make the appeal of the broad consensus and the need to hold a debate on social security when the only commitment they made before Brussels in the Budget Strategy Paper was the cut of 600 million to the head, it does not seem right to us, since all this speech had only one function, which was to hide the real objective of this government and also of the coalition. Besides that this is nothing new, because, as Mr David Costa said, you had already made this attempt in the previous State budget, when you tried to increase workers' contribution to social security by applying the sustainability criterion as well as the increase in VAT. That is the real stone that you throw. And hide your hand, without ever clarifying what really matters to us. And what we clearly need to clarify is the following: if they do not agree with the cut in pensions, will they or will they not withdraw from this document the cut of 600 million? That is the big issue, because we cannot do something very similar to "where Wally is", social or political, that is, we cannot try each one of us to find out where and how you are going to cut and then know where it is. What we know and the Portuguese know is that the cut is there, and it's in the pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u120	To reply, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u121	Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank the honourable Members. Mr. David Costa, Heloísa Apolónia and Mário Ruivo for the questions they have raised. I will try to answer together and not steal any answers, because the Social Democratic Party obviously does not steal any kind of political response. The question of the social state and the sustainability of the social state was discussed here. The sustainability of the social state is in accordance with the economic principle that eggs need to be egged to become omelettes. And, in fact, what happened in Portugal is that the country often did not have enough eggs and had to resort to borrowed eggs. The first obligation is to put public accounts in order and ensure the financial consolidation of the social state at its different levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u123	That was the hard work that this government had to start in these four years of the legislature that is about to end. In fact, at this time, the country is in a position to say that the public school, the National Health Service, social security have the conditions to face the future with a reasonable optimism. I am also referring to the issue of social security reform and the consensus that is needed. Obviously these materials are not exclusively PSD or CDS-PP, they are regiments. All of them, in the past, had at least an agreement or an understanding with the Socialist Party, which is a founding and central party of the regime, so they will be taken with consensus, on the one hand with social consensus, but, as this is not enough, it is necessary to legislate with political consensus. This is our will and is indeed reflected in the principles that the coalition has already publicly presented: the need to talk, the need to reach understandings and, above all, the need not to cover the sun with the sieve. It is necessary to ensure the sustainability of the system and that people, the current contributors, in future, can be entitled to a pension, as the current beneficiaries have. Therefore, this issue that I have launched is for debate. It seems that there are certain benches to whom the word « ceiling» or the expression « mixed system» or « complementary individual capitalisation» is the same as for theatre artists to spell out the word « Macbeth », i.e., it is an abomination! It is, however, in countries where the social state is more advanced and which are somehow the lighthouse that enlightens in terms of social state that have already introduced these measures, in order to safeguard, in the name of intergenerational solidarity, the payment of pensions for the future beneficiaries, those who are discounting their wages to pay the pensions of the current pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u124	The ceiling is a disaster for the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u125	We must therefore think in the long term, in order to ensure sustainability, but — this is a guarantee that the Social Democratic Party gives — everything will be done in consensus, because it is essential that there be a system understanding on this matter. Finally, on the issue of the so-called 600 million, I would like to say that we do not steal from this issue. The 600 million are in line with this principle that there is obviously a need for sustainability and that transfers from the State budget do not call into question the balance of that same budget. And it is obvious that, in an economy which currently presents increases in the employment rate, which shows increases in economic growth in gross domestic product, the net result will be much lower than that. It is also possible to ensure the sustainability of the system, not unduly paying the State budget and its transfers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u126	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social security is a construction of the democratic regime from 25 April, and we must therefore start from this discussion. This is why it is so important that the CFP here today brought about social security, its sustainability and its future, because it is in the future that we have to deal with. The government shakes the fear of the social security system's unsustainability to prepare new cuts in pensions and push new generations into the business of private pension funds. This strategy represents a dual danger for the country: it discredits social security and weakens its sustainability by introducing long-term changes to respond to conjunctural problems. While right-wing calls for consensus to cut 600 million euros in pensions and lower TSU, PS also proposes to lower TSU ( 4 % in workers, 4 % in employers ), making a kind of forced loan on future pensions. It is not difficult to see the combined result of these measures: workers will get worse, pensioners will get worse, employers will get better and social security will be at risk. In 2010 the country had 5 million workers to discount for about 2, 6 million pensioners. Today there are 4, 5 million workers to be discounted to more than 2, 7 million pensioners. currently, the greatest danger to social security is unemployment. in these years 100 000 jobs were destroyed per year. The first measure for the sustainability of social security is job creation. But, to the very high unemployment values, a new risk has been added in these four years: wage breakdown. The various wage cuts and work precariousness measures have created a country of low wages and therefore also low social security contributions. It is true that demography is a determining factor on the sustainability of the system and Portugal takes serious risks from an inversion of the age pyramid. And the numbers are overwhelming: in three years, this government has brought the birth rate down as much as in the previous decade. Birth promotion policies are central, but none of them will be effective without employment and without decent wages. We also need to contribute in the short term to some rebalancing of the intergenerational contract, which is central to the pension system for Portugal. It is urgent to create jobs to stop the bleeding of emigration, the return of migrants and the attraction of immigrants. Cutting into paid pensions — the result of discounts on working life — cannot be an option. Breaking the social contract on which the formation of pensions was based, to further aggravate the living conditions of pensioners, undermines democracy. Cutting into future pensions is also attacking social security, because it is a way of breaking the intergenerational contract. If the generation that contributes to social security today loses the right to a decent pension, the contribution loses legitimacy. Technological developments and ways of producing and creating value nevertheless recommend changes in the financing model to ensure the correct distribution of the funding effort for social security. These amendments are not bound by social and intergenerational contracts, which must be guaranteed as pillars of democracy. The responsibility is to respond to what has actually changed. If intensive capital today produces more value than intensive labour, it is necessary to re-equalise the way of contribution of companies, promoting balance and ensuring stability in revenue. The contributions of companies to social security are made through the single social rate, which affects only wages. It is an effort concentrated only on wages and, given the technological evolution to which we witness, restricts the capacity to finance social security and exempts the solidarity effort of much of the country's wealth. Not by chance, Portuguese companies are less — less, Mr Pedro Roque! — participate in the financing of social security. In 2012, and data from Eurostat, companies'contributions to social protection in Portugal represented only 7, 7 % of GDP when in Spain the value was 11 % in France at 14 % in Greece at 10 % and the European average was 10 %, 7 %. Therefore, the argument is false that there is already a great deal of effort in Portugal in relation to other countries. The Left Block therefore proposes the creation of a rate on the added value of large companies for solidarity financing of social security. According to INE, the added value of non-financial and financial corporations has in recent years represented more than EUR 40 billion per year. Thus, a rate of 0, 75 % on the added value of large companies — I repeat, of large companies — represents, even in the current crisis context, an increase of revenue of about EUR 300 million per year for social security. This is therefore the proposal we bring here, and this is our contribution to the future sustainability of social security, because we want and defend a public, universal and solidarity system. That is the requirement of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u128	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know that the social security model we have in Portugal, although it has only existed as such since 25 April, has been copied and done in the same way as what was implemented in Europe in the post-war period. And the matrix that led to the implementation of this model was radically different from what we currently have. By setting up a framework, we remember that at that time Europe was going through a phase and a period of strong industrialization, full employment, high birth rates and the ratio of active workers and reformers inversely proportional to what exists today. There were much more workers in the activity than reformed to benefit from the discounts of these workers. In addition, the expectation of remaining in the reform, i.e. the expectation of life after reform at that time, was 10, 15 years old. Currently, due to the advances in health care, the advances in medicine, the expectation of stay in the reform is almost twice what existed at that time. It is clear that the current situation is radically different — it is a situation of economic recruitment, of less employment, of less contributors to social security, of low birth rates, not only in Portugal but also throughout Europe, of exponential numbers of reformers (and, in order for them to have an idea, it is expected that in Europe, up to 2060, the population over 65 years old grows 71, 2 %) — I said that the current situation is radically different and I would say that seriously speaking of the sustainability of the social state, the sustainability of social security and the sustainability of the social security system is to pay attention to all these factors and to think about profound reforms in the way of financing the social system. Therefore, the debate that the CFP brought is welcome. It is clear that the debates on this subject, when they are made in a serious way, are welcome. Of course, and with due respect, it cannot be considered very serious that the CFP defends, throughout all the initial recitals of its draft resolution, that the key stone is the creation of employment and, at the same time, dissociating the creation of employment from the existence of companies and making a closed attack on employers and businesses, as if there were jobs without companies, as if there were subordinated workers against others without the other, the company giving them employment. We do not see the world like this, we do not see this dichotomy, and therefore we believe that encouraging job creation to help the sustainability of the welfare state is also helping businesses create jobs, enabling the reduction in the rate of unemployed and the increase in the number of contributors to this welfare system. Nor is it serious, as Mr Vieira da Silva did — which is no longer present in the Chamber, which is why I should have to speak in his absence, which is something I do not like — to make an almost doctoral lecture on the principles of the social security system, on the axes, on the aspects, on the essentiality of the social security system and then to omit that the Socialist Party, in the PEC 4 — which in good time was plunged — has provided more than 4 billion euros of cuts in these same social benefits,... [[PS protests.]] ... omit that the Socialist Party cut the family allowance to half a million Portuguese families, omit that the Socialist Party, with this academic speaking of chair, frozen the national minimum wage precisely from those workers who receive the least and have the least and who freeze the retirement pensions precisely from those people who have the least and who are most deprived. I think it is time to take this time to have a serious debate on the sustainability of the social security system, on the sustainability of social security. This Government, while opting for the opposite way, agrees with what the Communist Party says the best contribution to this sustainability is job creation, and has created it. This Government has implemented a number of active employment measures, has implemented a number of incentives to businesses, job creation by them and the growth of the economy, this Government has implemented a number of measures and programmes aimed at improving the training of workers, to enable those who are unemployed to better integrate into the labour market, and to improve their wage and pay conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u130	The result of these measures was the destruction of 400 000 jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u131	The fact is that, past the peak of the crisis, which we never denied would exist and which lasted until the first quarter of 2013, the unemployment rate dropped from 18 % to 13 % and more than 200 000 jobs were created. That is how we work to create jobs and that is how we work for the sustainability of social security and the welfare state. This balance sheet, for example, adds that in the field of stable and continued employment promotion measures in the time of these more than 200 000 jobs that were created from 2013 to here, the ratio between termless employment contracts and end-of-term work contracts is almost three to one, which proves that the measures that the Government has implemented have been correct and promoted the creation of sustainable work. Internally, it is clear that we also undertake reforms in the system itself: we increase the age of reform. It's true! And as we have increased the age of reform in one or two years, we have made savings of EUR 111 billion up to EUR 2060 in the welfare state, which will help make it sustainable and more people can have the guarantee that they will be entitled to reform in the future. The welfare state, as it currently exists, is deficient. This government has already transferred more than EUR 4500 million from the State budget to the welfare system to enable them to meet and honour social obligations towards the reformed and the unemployed. In addition, we also changed the accounting of the average contribution career, not only as it was for the last few years of contribution, and we proposed the convergence of the two pension systems that exist in Portugal, given the discrepancy of them, because in the general pension system the average pension is about 500 € and in the General Pension Board the average pension pension is over 1200 €. It is unfair and this injustice could only be solved through convergence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u132	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u133	I shall conclude, Mr President. Having said this and done this brief analysis, which has allowed me time, I would like to say the following: we want to deepen this debate, but in order to move from palliative measures, from the measures at the moment, from the fundamental measures of sustainability and from changing the standard of financing social security, it is necessary for all parties, in a serious way, not only in speech but in concrete terms, to join and discuss this reform. I therefore call on the Socialist Party to come out of speech and demagogy and make a serious speech, sitting with us to work so that this reform is done, so that the Portuguese — the present and future — can look at their future and see, safely and calmly, the moment when they will achieve their reform. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u134	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just heard Mr Artur Rêgo from the CDS, who gave us 8 minutes of intervention with his usual style of distortion, distortion of the concrete reality of employment and unemployment and on the proposals presented by the CFP here. But the CDS called for a serious debate on the financial sustainability of social security, but did not refer to the proposal of the 600 million euro cuts in reforms, which is the proposal of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u136	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u137	The CDS calls for a serious debate, but hides its true intentions with regard to reforms. The CDS, after four years of cutting into reforms and wages, degrading the lives of those who work and transforming the lives of the reformers into hell, has now proposed a new cut of 600 million euros, which does not assume to be hurt from an electoral point of view. But it's the proposal the CDS has. The question posed in this debate is: where is the CDS for the election campaign? » This is because we saw Dr. Paulo Portas, during the election campaign of the last elections, clearly asserting that the CDS was the party of the taxpayers—and we saw the beautiful result that is above the table! — and the elderly. The CDS came to the stage of setting a "red lines" that limited cuts to reformers. The question is: where do these red lines stand? Are you satisfied with the cuts you want? It is that when it comes to the financial sustainability of social security, the CDS-PP has only one path: cuts and more cuts on cuts from whom it has reformed. There is no single concrete proposal that solves the problem of financing social security in the medium and long term. The proposal that the CFP has made is on the side of revenue, which is intended to contribute to ensuring social security money to ensure reforms. The proposal that the CDS is making, along with the PSD, is to cut into whom it can and has less in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u138	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution of the CFP presents solutions to defend the public, universal and solidarity character of social security, the appropriate financing of the social security system. Different things are the non-contributory system, its role and funding responsibilities. in our country, the existence of a non-contributory system comes from the role of the State, as enshrined in the Constitution, of protection of childhood and old age, of distribution of wealth and of combating poverty and social inequalities, which must be financed exclusively by the State budget, and for this purpose the amounts must be expanded and strengthened. the objective of the universality of family allowance to all children and young people, the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, the governments must make corresponding funds in State budget for these objectives to be achieved. We give a concrete example: the current government has chosen to reduce IRC to large companies, losing 580 million euros of revenue to the state. The collection of this value would have allowed a year to ensure family allowance to more than 1, 6 million children, with an average value of 30 € / monthly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP makes it very clear today that workers' discounts should serve exclusively to guarantee and protect workers' rights and reforms. We condemn at all the fact that the PSD/CDS Government has used as an exchange currency the reduction of the TSU of employers to increase the national minimum wage, thus decapitalizing social security, as well as equally condemning the use of the Social Security Financial Stabilization Fund, which is of workers, for «accessible housing», whatever this is, as the PS proposes in its electoral programme. The discounts of workers resulting from their contribution career exist to ensure protection in the disease, unemployment and old age. the State must ensure social benefits, which are indispensable for the eradication of poverty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further entries, we are moving to the conclusion of the debate. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brought to the Assembly of the Republic, with this debate, a different perspective from that which usually conditions the debate about social security. The debate on social security is usually conditional on the prospects for cuts that need to be made in order to leave unaffected economic and labour policy and the perspective that the CFP today brought to this debate is another: it is the prospect of defining social policy objectives and discussing the measures necessary to ensure the financing of social security, necessary for the achievement of these social policy objectives. The CFP has presented its solutions, its concrete proposals to ensure the financing of social security, and of course does not confuse the problems of social security as structural and only with another economic policy which creates employment, which combats precariousness and which, in general, increases wages, it is possible to solve structurally the problems of social security. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while these economic policy measures are not being reached, there are a number of other immediate proposals that can be taken. And that is what we have brought here: proposals that reject the speech on the unsustainability of social security and that confirm that it is possible to ensure its financing, in order to ensure that the objectives of social policy, improving living conditions, improving protection for the unemployed, and generally increasing reforms are achieved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the outcome of this debate is clarifying: while workers and reformers are aware that they have in the CFP those who defend them and those who present measures to defend their rights, they also know that the parties of the troika — PS, PSD and CDS — can only expect more politics of the troika. The CFP presented proposals and solutions to the problems of social security, but the troika parties prefer cuts in the rights of the pensioners, the unemployed, the workers in general. We have presented concrete proposals and solutions to ensure the financing of social security, but Troika parties — PS, PSD and CDS — prefer to attack the CFP rather than attack the problems of social security. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u142	from the PSD and CDS, we had virtually nothing new. The Portuguese already know what they cannot count on the parties supporting the government. The experience of the last four years tells the unemployed, tells the poor, tells the workers pushed to poverty, tells the reformers that with the PSD and the CDS they can only count on the worsening of their situation, the lack of protection of their lives, the violation of their rights. Moreover, the PSD and the CDS that a few months ago, in this House of the Republic, entered the Stability Programme which sent the European Commission the objective of cutting EUR 600 million into reforms and pensions in Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u143	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u144	... they now try to hide these goals, because they realize that this is something that burns their hands at the time of the election. Now, they try to hide in half-words, but what is clear is that what they promise the Portuguese is to continue to do what they have done so far: cuts in rights, cuts in Portuguese pensions and with this aim they have already assumed that the cut is at least EUR 600 million. It is clear from this extraordinary perspective that Mr Pedro Roque has brought us here. The PSD tells us : « The problem of social security is demographic ». They want to convince us that the problems of social security depend on demography, on the evolution of birth and they want to make social security dependent on the evolution of demographic and birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u145	And not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u146	Mr Adam Silva is also interested in taking part in the debate, so I would also like to ask him this question: What would be a Christmas boom for us if young people are still unemployed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u147	May I respond, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u148	Mr President, we will not establish individual dialogue with the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The honourable Member is speaking but does not engage in dialogue with any of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u149	Do not worry, Mr President, that I am also able to respond to the separate parts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u150	I repeat the question: what would be a Christmas boom if workers were still unemployed? What would provide us with an explosive increase in birth if young people are still pushed into precariousness, low wages and emigration? The problem of social security is not demographic but economic. The problem of social security is the lack of an economic policy that creates employment, combats precariousness and increases workers' wages. [[PCP applause.]] The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS know that it is not a demographic problem, it is an economic and labour problem. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS know that the structural problems of social security, such as those of demographics, are responsible, and are a consequence of your economic and labour policy, which is the right policy. This policy, which destroys jobs, destroys wages, destroys rights and obliges emigration, which is at the root of all these problems. With regard to PS, we realize that this party, particularly Mr Vieira da Silva, prefers to attack the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u151	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u152	... instead of attacking the problems of social security to circumvent the commitments the Socialist Party has with the right policy. But, Mr Vieira da Silva, this cannot rest the workers, nor the reformers. The PS commitments are clear in this debate. What Mr Vieira da Silva said in the speech and that it is also expressed in the PS electoral programme is clear about the PS's commitments on social security: decapitalisation of social security with the reduction of the single social rate; allowing companies to use temporary work, provided they pay for it. Therefore, precariousness is no longer a problem in Portuguese society that must be combated and becomes a resource that companies will have at their disposal through compensation or not of the payment that they make to social security and the use of social security serves at least for what it must serve, i.e. to protect workers, to guarantee the living conditions of the pensioners. The example of urban regeneration is, moreover, unique.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u153	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u154	More: PS proposes more pension cuts. When Mr Vieira da Silva says that there can be no cuts, and I quote « in pensions allocated for the final purpose », what he is saying to the Portuguese is that those who will retire cannot rest with the PS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u155	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u156	...because the PS does not guarantee that there will not be cuts in pensions that they have the expectation to receive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u157	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u158	This, Mr Vieira da Silva, is a commitment to the right-wing policy, the same policy of cutting pensions and the rights of Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u159	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. They also propose increasing the age of reform by saying that this is useful, in view of the increase in average life expectancy and the proposal to maintain the condition of resources. Anyway, everything is equal to what the PSD and CDS defends. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: Ladies and gentlemen are wrong about the target. It is not the CFP that must attack, it is the right-wing policy, because that is the basis of the structural problems of social security. The CFP has brought here concrete proposals to ensure, in the immediate and medium term, social security funding for social policy objectives aimed at the construction of a more just and more supportive society. It is obvious that for this purpose we know that we cannot count on the troika parties because only the policy of the troika comes from there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u161	Sir, please finish. It's been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u162	But here we will continue to defend workers, reformers, progress and social development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-18.u163	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Friday, 19th day, beginning at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: First of all, we will be debating with the Prime Minister on issues of political, economic and social relevance; We shall then proceed to the debate, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process ; Thirdly, Bill No. 344 / XII ( 4 ) is scheduled. ( a ) — Set the new VAT rates to be applied in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( no time) ; Fourthly, motions for resolutions 112 / XII ( 4 ) are also scheduled. ( a ) — Approves the Convention of the Council of Europe for the Prevention of Terrorism adopted in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, 113 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Council Decision of 26 May 2014 on the European Union own resources system ( 2014 / 335 / EU, Euratom ), made in Brussels, 115 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on the Handling of Sports Competitions, opened for signature in Magglingen on 18 September 2014, and 116 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement concluded between the Portuguese Republic and Imamat Ismaili with a view to establishing its seat in Portugal, signed on 3 June 2015 ( no time) ; Finally, we will have a vote at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I should like to remind you that. Members elected by the Setúbal Electoral Circle, there will then be a tasting of wines from that region in the Clauses. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 7 minutes.]]
