ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I declare the sitting open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. There is no file today, so we are directly on the agenda. of the first item on the agenda today is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 61 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of incapacity and its supply, and adapting a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 62 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, criminalizing a set of conducts that address the fundamental rights of the elderly ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the sixth amendment to Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities'organs, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendant, approved by Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil regime of disabilities ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present these bills, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need for legal protection for the elderly, especially densityed, is not a novelty in our legal order, either in the civil sphere or in the field of which is the shelter of situations that most seriously offend the essential social and human values — criminal law. There is no doubt that this finding does not arise from any view which argues that being older is an ineptitude or insufficiency which, in itself, deserves special support. on the contrary, achieving greater longevity and getting to the lateness of life represents a social good of invaluable value. It is a great wealth for itself and for all those who have the privilege of taking advantage of the experience and knowledge that accumulates with the passing of years and that it has always proved to be fundamental, as a natural and more suitable process, for the transmission of cultures and the growth of all civilizations. However, it is undeniable that aging can induce some addictions, whether of economic charity or of basic health and hygiene care and, in the same way, situations of taking advantage of frailties capable of causing the elderly property damage, or, as we all know, causing cases of physical or psychological violence can be enhanced. We don't believe in a society divided between young and old. We recognize, in a positive and constructive way, the social role of the elderly, whom we view as "our elders", happily still among us. As early as November 2013, the Union of Portuguese Mercy defended the need for legislation that holds families responsible for abandoning elderly people in hospitals and homes. In July 2014, the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, in its Opinion No. 80 / CNECV / 2014, argued that a support programme should be developed for families who care or wish to take care of their elderly people, recommending, moreover, the adoption of a status of the elderly. Also between 2011 and 2015, the PSD / CDS Government has taken measures for the sustainability of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI), contracting more 2140 beds on the Continuing Care Network, an increase of 39 % of its capacity for hospitalization compared to 2011, providing for the opening of more than 986 beds in that same network. And bearing in mind that politics cannot remain in the mere taking of positions or in the theoretical defense of principles with which almost everyone says we agree, it is important in this debate to highlight and welcome the action of the coalition government, which set up the protection strategy for the elderly as a priority, through the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 63 / 2015 of 25 August. By this means, the matter has been inserted into a logic of legal reform thought and sustained as a renewal and complementable to the social responses that our contemporaryity requires for the society we want to be even more worthy and respectable of the values of what we rightly call « fundamental rights of the elderly». in this sense, together with the CDS-PP, we present to this Parliament three bills. in the first, the Civil Code and civil legislation is amended in accordance with the spirit of United Nations resolutions and international conventions which have dedicated themselves to the renewal of the issue of disability. The principles that should be observed in the application of protection measures are set out here: the dignity of the human person; hearing and participation; information, necessity and proportionality, flexibility and heritage preservation. Sharing a global and integrated view of the person with reduced capacity as a subject of rights, the institute of disabilities is redesigned, and the measures of protection of older persons in situations of disability are foreseen as a new figure of general character. This new figure includes, alongside the classical institutes of prohibition and disability, two institutions of the law of obligations which are adapted to the objectives of protection measures: mandate and business management. in the second bill, a direct consequence of the above described, the electoral laws are amended, namely the legal regime of elections for the Presidency of the Republic, for the Assembly of the Republic, for the local authorities bodies and for the local referendum, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new disability regime. in the third draft law, aiming to provide effectiveness and accentuate the pendant of the judicial intervention of this reform, the PSD and the CDS-PP propose to amend the Penal Code, adding to the Title ‘Crimes against People’ a new Chapter IX, creating five legal types of crime against the fundamental rights of the elderly and aggravating three other crimes already existing. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is a humanist party, whose ideological and visionary essence of the world lies in the social concerns that integrate it. We are a party to the moderate political centre and, therefore, we could not fail to be pioneers in this very important matter of the fundamental rights of the elderly. It is not possible or desirable to go down with inexcusable practices, because attacks on the fundamental rights of the elderly, through a mere moral disapproval when they are removed from the legal instruments that give them effectiveness. And, it should be pointed out, these situations must not fail to be considered aberrant only by the fact that they have a millennial verification. We remember the ancient legends of the Old, Mountain and Manta, which, with more or less similar versions, exist both in the national folklore as well as in the South American Indians, themes that covered the cruel abandonment of the older and were treated literally from Miguel Torga, to, for example, one of the most beautiful works of Japanese cinematography, the Balada de Narayama. These episodes are universal only because they are part of the universal history of infamy, and they are not, because they cannot be, temporary, from the very moment, because, through this legislative reform, in Portugal, we also mean that this time has come to an end without complacency and, yes, will constitute a true civilizational advance. We call for the support of the parliamentary benches for our purpose which must belong to all because everyone is concerned. We are prepared to hear, adjust and improve these initiatives with the other parties in this Parliament and with all those who want to contribute to this legislative reform that cannot be delayed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u3	For a request for clarification, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, I would like to tell you that all support and defence initiatives for the elderly will, on our part, be welcomed, because we believe that being elderly cannot mean loss of rights, loss of dignity, as has happened, and cannot be a factor in reducing legal capacity. We therefore consider that there are minimum standards for the construction of a decent society that must be respected and that have not been respected in the last four years. The social contract with the elderly was broken, the solidarity complement for the elderly was cut as well as pensions, which made many elderly people isolated and without any support. Poverty and inequality have increased significantly. Within two years there were more than 130 000 poor elderly people. Now, knowing that poverty undermines the exercise of fundamental rights, they are like two sides of the same coin; one cannot walk without the other — what I ask you, Mr President, is if you do not consider dignity to be an integral part of the rights. Now, the dignity of the elderly has been affected by your policies, by the policies that you have promoted and you cannot hand in hand what has been taken away in times past. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] This was your mistake, this was a strangled strategy. We have a holistic vision, a vision of broadening rights. Yes, we will support them, but that too cannot be done, Mr President, if we do not return hope, if we do not return trust, if we do not return dignity. And that is what you have taken away from the elderly. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u5	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u6	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, these initiatives can legitimately be seen as a review of the awareness of the PSD and the CDS regarding how the elderly, while part of the particularly vulnerable population, have been attacked in the last four years by the policies of the PSD government and the CDS. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] And we can ask two questions. First of all, why is it that only beyond the last hour did you remember the elderly? In other words, the elderly appeared in the discourse of the PSD and the CDS for election campaign purposes, when before, they only harmed the elderly in their social rights and in their living conditions, denying many of them the most elementary conditions for a dignified life and then made the electoral program and appeared, after the hour, i.e. in the next legislature, to present legislative initiatives in this direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u8	But, Mr President, with regard to legislative initiatives, there is an incriminating turn which is very typical of the Portuguese right, but which cannot help but shock us. basically, you, in relation to one of the specific rules that you propose here, which is the criminalization of the abandonment of the elderly in hospitals, what you intend to do here is to criminalize families without resources. Indeed, this problem, from our point of view, is not resolved by the criminalization of families without resources to care for their elderly, but by creating conditions so that these elderly people can have institutions where, beyond hospitals, they can be treated. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] Now, you are going on a seemingly easier path, i.e. criminalizing families who have no way of caring for their elderly. But the question I wanted to ask you is: what is the legal good that is being sought to safeguard here? A family who does not have the resources to care for their elderly and who does not have the conditions to remove him from the hospital, put him in another institution, the criminalization of that family is susceptible to what? It is likely to put the elderly in a situation of greater abandonment even than the one in which he could stay in the hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u10	We admit that hospitals do not have this possibility, that vocation. But, then, one must find a way for these elderly people to be properly cared for by the Portuguese State... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u11	Ah, but now with the CFP in the government, you'll have! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u12	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u13	Mr. President, there was a vogue that I couldn't even hear myself! Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, what is the legal good that is intended to safeguard when, with this rule, a situation can cause much worse for the abandonment of the elderly than for the elderly? I would like the honourable Member to be clear on this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u14	To reply, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u15	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Elza Pais and Mr António Filipe asked the questions. Replying directly to the question which has now been put to me by Mr António Filipe, on which is the legal good that the criminalization of the abandonment of the elderly is intended to safeguard, it is very simple: ill-treatment and omission of duty of aid. And I tell you, honourable Member, that in my speech I was quite clear when I said that the previous government added to the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care the contractualization of more 2140 beds, which means an increase of 39 % — it is not a small thing! — in relation to what already existed. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u16	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u17	It's not a lie, no! They're official data. And this, Mr President, at a time when the country was suffering from a financial affliction and where the social responses were maintained, but in this case they have even been increased, they have been expanded, which is a fact that we must highlight. With regard to all the fears and phantoms that have been raised here in the two questions that have been put to me, I mean the following: this is the time to say, very clearly, which side we are on, is not worth discussing. in this field of the fundamental rights of the elderly, we cannot say that we condemn morally, that we are against these types of situations, and when we are given legal instruments that aim to give effective moral disapproval, this tightening of the most essential values of a modern society, purely and simply, we say: "That is not right, this should be otherwise, it should be more...". If they have changes, if they have constructive proposals in this area, come to land and discuss them with us. We are willing to discuss them and hear them. But don't take refuge...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u18	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, do not take refuge, do not hide behind a political issue, saying that this is not the case, because they simply do not agree with this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u20	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u21	I conclude, Mr. President. We understand that the goodness of our civil status implies respect for the fundamental rights of the elderly. And which side is the Socialist Party on? And which side is the Portuguese Communist Party on? The answer will be given in the vote on these draft laws. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u22	Also to present the bills under discussion, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills we are discussing today represent one of the most significant advances ever made in the protection of the elderly, translating what is our most noble mission: to act, when reality demands our intervention, legislating. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u24	The numbers are known and I'm sorry to mention them. But I point out the obvious: not only has the number of elderly people increased, but also, fortunately, the average life expectancy of people has grown substantially, which implies specific regulation, not only in health and social terms, but also in legal terms. This joint initiative—and I stress that the initiative is joint, because it is never too much to remember—the PSD and the CDS clearly, express and objectively, the rights of the elderly, developing a set of policies appropriate to their protection. Northerned by relevant national and international documents, including the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which is so expensive to the left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u25	Only on the left? Oh, my God! I thought it was everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u26	... Resolution 46/91 of the General Assembly of the United Nations, the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Member States, which lists rights as important as independence and autonomy, personal achievement, dignity, non-discrimination, protection against violence and abuse or economic security and the housing conditions of the elderly, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers, adopted last August, is based on a tripartite structure, expressly proclaiming the rights of the elderly and establishing civil and criminal measures. The basis for these legislative amendments is, therefore, the defence of the dignity of the human person and the repression of all forms of violence, abuse, exploitation or discrimination of the elderly, thus giving shape to the resolution approved by the previous Government, that the coalition led to elections and that the majority of Portuguese have suffraged.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u28	in the civil context changes, I would like to highlight the redesign of the disability institute, a new generic figure — the protection measures of older people in situations of disability — which will prevent third parties from taking advantage of the elderly who are in this condition, either by physical disability or by psychological disability, always taking into account the specific circumstances of each individual and with the extent necessary for each case. In other words, the measure of protection and the consequent decree of disability may relate to personal or heritage issues, or both, and may address only concrete aspects of the life of the elderly or their whole, so respecting their autonomy in what their health condition allows them, and only in that exact measure. I also welcome the consecration of the character of the mandate, establishing the possibility of a procuring authority for whom, expecting to suffer from any disability situation, wants to first determine who — and how — will compete with the management of its heritage. It also adds the expansion of situations of successive indignity, moving away from the inheritance the heir who has inflicted ill-treatment on the elderly. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u29	in the criminal context changes, it is worth drawing attention to the criminalization of some conduct. I quote three: the denial of the reception or stay of an elderly person in the institution for refusing to have property in favour of it; the preparation of a notarial act or the procuring authority for the management of the property involving a notoriously limited elderly person; or, moreover, the abandonment of an elderly person in hospitals and similar persons. More in this context, it is determined that the punishment for crimes of ridicule and injury or defamation directed at the elderly is aggravated, which we all know is something that happens very often today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time to hear what the various left-wings have to say. It is time to hear what you have to say to the majority who supports this government, politicallyad hoc. It is time to listen to those who have called us inhumane and heartless people for — no matter what! — the minimum, social and rural pensions have been frozen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u30	It is time to hear who prevented an increase of 25 € per month of minimum pensions for, imagine, an increase of 1 single euro per month, i.e., 3 cents per day. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u31	What will they say and do now, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Will they oppose the initiative? They will once again leave the weakest unprotected, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? [[Protests from PS Deputy Elza Pais.]] It is that what is at stake here is not only the criminalization of conduct that attacks on the dignity and life of older people. It wouldn't be little, actually, but it's much more than that. what is also and above all concerned is the social protection of the elderly, preventing abuses, ill-treatment and discriminatory behaviors and putting emphasis on their self-determination and dignity, in which, of course, the institutions of the social economy have been and will be an essential element. It is also with them that we will continue to count to halt a social scourge which, unfortunately, has not stopped increasing, without, with this, deresponsibility of families and leaving the oldest deliveries to the worst of fortunes: indifference, forgetfulness and abandonment. [[Protests from PS Deputy Elza Pais.]] Taking care of who the most accurate has been, and will always be, a flag of the previous government and these two sides. When we adopted the Resolution that supports this initiative, they threw us with their uselessness and their extemporaneousness because they were not on the political agenda. I quote a PS leader, who said he was a « completely sterile combat », continuing last August with the reference that « no measures will enter to be discussed in the next eight, ten months ». Not four months later, and even after all the known vicissitudes and which I apologize for repeating, here we are debating it. I therefore repeat the question: And now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? For us, it has always been on the political agenda, before and after the elections, in the coalition programme and in the Government programme, which, remember, have rejected. For you it is not, indeed — nothing! Not a concrete measure on the social and legal protection of the elderly. Not an initiative in this regard. Only a promise to increase pensions — less than we proposed and to move away — and to replace the solidarity supplement for the elderly, both still in the drawer. Now, it is on everyone's political agenda and, for what matters here, in your hands. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u32	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past four years, the elderly population has been easily targeted and especially affected by austerity policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u34	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u35	It was a direct target, through successive and gross cuts of pensions from those who had a whole life of work and then saw the State dishonor their commitment to guarantee a dignified end of life for these people. And it was also indirect through the cut-off of social benefits, particularly in the solidarity supplement for the elderly, the huge increase in household incomes, the withdrawal of support for the transport of patients, the elimination of public services, where the elderly population is more dependent and more fragile, particularly in rural areas of the interior. It now invokes the right, as a motivating reason for these bills, the fact that Portugal does not comply with numerous provisions of international conventions and resolutions of international organizations. It's true! And this situation needs to be corrected. But much more serious is that, in this huge field where old age is confronted with poverty, the right has over the years implemented policies of vulnerability of those who are vulnerable, impoverishment of those who are poor and isolation from those who are condemned to loneliness, failing to recognize those people who hold rights and seeing in them clients of the care business that has flourished with the withdrawal of State responsibilities. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] They now want to criminalize those who abandon old people in institutions. But I say to you: truly an attack on the essential ethical principles is the policy that abandons the old to their fate and withdraws basic support from them, health, social security and housing, essential support for their dignity, condemning these people to poverty and a condition of permanent sadness. in fact, the right has proposed that we face, through criminalization, the problems created by the policies applied by those who now criminalize. This is very clear in the explanatory statement of Bill No. 62 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), when they say the following step : « The use they intend to make of the old person's incomes is mainly due to unemployment(...) ». This is, in fact, to look at the unemployed as a potential violent agent over the elderly. That is what your explanatory statement says, and it is very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u36	It's hate for the poor! That's old!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u37	Therefore, what the right here proposes to us with this criminalization is truly a washing operation of its political image. It is that, who has struck the elderly and the elderly with ruthless policies, in the shadow of which new niches of the market have blossomed, has now presented itself as a defender of those who were whipped by it. Who, one day, has called himself a "party of reformed people" and then made the lives of reformed people in hell now sponsor legal solutions that he presents as defenders of these ones whose life has become so degraded. In fact, avant-garde and end-of-line solutions that at nothing help to solve the underlying reasons for the fragility of the vast majority of the elderly in Portugal. We really need a status of the elderly population to approach, systematically and in an integrated way, this population and take as priority the guarantee of its essential rights to a dignified life. But we do not believe that this is done with timely solutions, despite the technical and legal correctness that some of them may have. And it is not done, above all, by abrogating responsibilities for national policies and throwing these responsibilities for individual behaviors, which they themselves often derive from these policies. If the PSD and the CDS want, in good faith, to commit themselves to creating conditions for this dignity and to this respect that the elderly and the elderly deserve us, they will have the opportunity to demonstrate here whenever we propose the increase in the national minimum wage, whenever we propose the strengthening of the social benefits, whenever we propose the revision of the income law or the encouragement to public investment, which creates employment and removes the children of active age from the protective resource at last given by the reform of the mine of their parents and their grandparents. They will have the opportunity to commit themselves to effective rights for the old and only that will be true and consistent. As I said, and very well, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, it is time to show which side you are on. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u38	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This beginning of legislation has opened a new way of hope for the Portuguese. Despite this, we have been unable to stop facing some situations that we could characterize as anomalies, i.e., scrapes from a political and social agenda that the Portuguese have already rejected on October 4. We all remember that the previous government almost promoted a generational rupture, putting young people against the elderly, in which the sadly famous boutade of the "grey plague" was one of the most obvious and condemned moments of this ideological drift. The irony of irony has emerged today from the benches which have launched what we can call anti-idose virus a proposal for vaccine, of medicine, for what they have put in Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all know the need for the PSD/CDS coalition in the pre-election period to try to reconcile itself with the Portuguese people and their electorate, resorting, in various ways, to demagogy and mystification. This was the reason for the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 63 / 85, which at the beginning its promoters knew well that they could not have practical implementation in the previous legislation, given the moment they implemented it. of the so-called "strategy for the elderly", what left us was the so-called Resolution, which was converted into three bills of law that we have to appreciate here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, they aim to amend the Civil Code by modifying the regime of incapacity and its supply, as well as by adapting the legislation to this new regime and amending the Criminal Code, criminalizing a set of conduct and, concomitantly, amending the electoral legislation. These purposes, in spite of the above, cannot fail to be considered worthy and deserve an acquiescence of principle, but only as far as the objectives are concerned. We all bear in mind the serious situation in which many of the Portuguese elderly live, without any support, in situations of social exclusion and complete isolation. Therefore, any conduct that may be harmful and contrary to the interests of the elderly, and those who wish to take advantage of it, should deserve inherent social censorship and should be punished when it falls into the criminal category envisaged. We are also aware that it is precisely in the groups with the lowest economic condition that, in most cases, the alleged situations of abandonment occur, because both caregivers and the elderly live in conditions below the poverty threshold and therefore with greater difficulties in providing support and more careful assistance. However, we do not have the temptation to make a law which aims to incriminate and punish those who do not have resources, bringing it all back to a question of economic condition and without the inherent social response. To devalue the lack of social response, as appears in the public discourse of some of the subscribers of these bills, does not therefore seem to us the right way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the context of the proposed changes to the disability regime and its supply, the bill is very shy in taking a break with the existing system. The ageing of developed societies is a phenomenon that has merited the attention of the international community. The United Nations adopted a set of principles relating to the protection of elderly persons by Resolution No 46 of 16 December 1991 and more recently the General Assembly of New York, held on 30 March 2007, adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including the elderly. This would be the time to pursue the path that many of the systems that inspire our legal order have already made in the last two decades and to structure our legal and civil order on the basis of the principle of maximum preservation of capacity, the principle of necessity and the principle of proportionality, always oriented according to the interest and need of the person who intends to protect himself. It is imperative that a reform be promoted, as has been done in France and Germany, and that a general law on the protection of elderly people with regard to their civil rights be created. However, the solutions listed do not allow or go so far as to be desired. The maintenance of the so-called replacement model with figures such as the mandate, business management, guardianship and curatela versus the non-adoption of flexible mechanisms to the support and assistance model as recommended in the New York Convention puts us seriously in relation to this being the way to achieve such a desire. The appropriate thing will be to take advantage of what this legislative initiative has to do with, i.e. the fact of putting the issue on the agenda, and thus allowing it in its own place, i.e. in the debate on the specialty — where it should have begun — to take the necessary course that the protection of the elderly and persons with disabilities is lacking, both in the legislative, civil and criminal aspects, and in that which is a dimension that we should never forget, its social dimension. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u40	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I think it would be worthwhile to distinguish two things from the content of the initiatives under discussion here. The first relates to the proposals for amendments to the Civil Code and those arising there from the electoral laws on disability matters, which are subjects whose discussion is relevant. We do not deny the relevance of the need for a well-considered update of the provisions of the Portuguese Civil Law which overcomes the rigidity with which it has established, since the 1960s, the matter relating to prohibitions and disability, and which we admit is not adequate in relation to a need for flexibility in the definition of people's exercise capacities in relation to the degree of disability that they may manifest. Therefore, the discussion of this matter is relevant, and we do not refuse it. This is a very different matter with the draft law which is presented here on criminal matters, with the aim of criminalizing a series of behaviours to the criminal law that already exists. It will be said that this draft law, paradoxically, has even merit in its preamble, which is that of the whole of its first part referring to the need of the bill itself by mentioning that the criminalization of which it is proposed is, essentially, envisaged in the criminalization of ill-treatment, the criminalization of abandonment, finally a series of denial of aid. I mean, those criminal guys already exist. What this bill essentially aims at is to solve social problems through the criminalization of families and, in particular, families with lower resources. And that is the fundamental question here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u42	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim said that this is a way to demonstrate who is with the elderly and who is against the elderly. Mr President, this is a completely motivated way of asking the question. If you want to put the question on this point, then we also say that you want to hide behind criminalization so that you do not do what is necessary, that it is to guarantee the elderly conditions of social support that allow them to have a dignified life and not to be effectively abandoned. That is the point. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] The PSD and the CDS, when they were government, have always been manifestly against the elderly and now seek to alleviate consciousness, not protecting the elderly, but seeking to criminalize families, and that is a way we refuse. from our point of view, this bill aimed at amendments to the Penal Code is therefore unacceptable and cannot, in any way, have our agreement. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u43	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are indeed faced with a diploma that essentially criminalizes the poor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u45	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u46	Responding to the challenge of Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, as this is a theme that matters to everyone and that can really be worked in the specialty, then we go to the specialty. The criminal type proposed in this diploma has very serious shortcomings. This must be pointed out here and, as such, we do not steal from this discussion. This type of criminal is, for any average jurist, excessively open, conduct is not entirely written in the criminal type, it needs and depends, to a large extent, on a valuable complement of the decision maker without any guide or parameter being given to it. I'm just going to give three examples. First example: notary acts. Reading the Notary Code, what happens? The criminal norm excludes from its scope the application of private documents that corporate most of the documents that are concerned when the elderly are unprotected. The second example is that legal representation must be legally ensured. But is the problem not the problem that needs to be resolved that the disabled elderly do not have a legal representative, who are not by definition protected? Third example: one of the Members. Members can understand what is written in the proposed Article 184 ( e ). the Criminal Code? It's absolutely imperceptible. The change that is intended to be implemented is not only aimed at the protection of the elderly, but also at other people who are vulnerable. On the other hand, it must be understood that it is intended to protect the vulnerability of people who are in the full exercise of their duties. This has to be highly discussed in the specialty, because it is a technical deficiency that—and responding to the challenge of Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim—do not steal to report. Indeed, these are very complicated technical deficiencies, which cannot fail to be explained in the specialty. This diploma, as it is, if it is not highly corrected in the specialty, will continue to be completely different from those intended by the proposers. This diploma, technically, in the state in which it is, is miserable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u47	For a second intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Making a little synthesis of what we are discussing here today, I begin by telling Mrs Isabel Moreira and Mr Antonio Filipe that the sensitivity to treating the elderly is not dependent on the people's income. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u49	Being rich or poor does not necessarily mean that some people treat badly and that others treat well. Therefore, this issue is not at stake, contrary to what they say. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[BE's protests.]] Besides, as Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has said, there are things that, if you want, we can discuss in the specialty. But the question now is not that, the question is to know what each one's options are. That's all you're here about, and that's what you're going to have to say. We always protect the weakest and that is our main mission. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Let's protect, yeah! Let's protect! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We didn't freeze the minimum pensions. It was the gentlemen, it wasn't us! We did not propose an increase of 1 € per month in pensions. We proposed an increase of €25 per month and you rejected it. It wasn't us, it was the gentlemen who rejected it! It's good that this is said! And it was us who, at the first opportunity, presented protection measures to the elderly and you have not yet done anything in this chapter. So let's wait. Let's see who protects and who doesn't protect the elderly. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u51	We protect the minors and the older ones who, thanks to their condition, also have some weaknesses. So let's talk about it, let's discuss it, and let's see who wants to protect the older ones or not. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u52	At the conclusion of the first item on our agenda, we move on to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — preference for local food production in public canteens ( The Greens ), 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE), 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Transition to a healthier and sustainable diet in the public canteens, using local and organic agricultural products ( PAN) and 71 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a regime for the selection of food products in public canteens and meals ( PS ). To open the debate and present Bill No. 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a) you have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia from The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a bill that aims to give preference for local food production in public canteens. We also welcome the other parliamentary groups that have joined in this Green Group concern and this proposal that we present here. It is not the first legislature in which we do so, but it is always important, in these very relevant matters, to insist until they are approved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the effects that our entry into the EEC then, into the European Union, through common policies that have been developed and which have squandered our primary productive activity, including agriculture and fisheries, in particular small agriculture and the small fishing industry. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters is that we need, today, as bread for the mouth, to win an economic revival in Portugal, which we have been losing. in this sense, what the Greens understand is that the state should set an example through its public services, particularly in places where it promotes the provision of meals, it should adopt a policy of supply of products based on national production, helping flow and encouraging the incentive to national production. We therefore have great economic gains with the implementation of this bill which The Greens present in the sense that I have already mentioned and also gained at national level because the re-enhancing of this economic activity generates employment, in particular in the area of family agriculture, which, as we all know, has many difficulties in the supply of their products, but which is a very important part in the supply of basic products to our diet. In addition, this project also has very relevant environmental gains. We all know that the depopulation and desertification of the rural world have very serious environmental consequences, which can be contradicted by the dynamisation of agriculture. The promotion and preservation of agricultural biodiversity, as well as landscape components, are yet another evidence of these gains. This measure presented by the Greens is also a contribution to combating climate change and to lower energy expenditure, since, by relocating food consumption, we are making this consumption less dependent on transport, promoting lower greenhouse gas emissions. At the level of food safety, too, it is more than proven that localized production, including family and biological production, has fewer repercussions on the major food scandals that we have unfortunately already been accustomed to and that we have been victims many times. It is essential to take action to reverse this whole situation and it is also the contribution that the Green Bill makes. [[Applause from The Greens and the PAN.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u54	To present Bill No 58 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr Carlos Matias, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the public universe, there are canteens that perform a social service of maximum relevance, such as the canteens of compulsory education or higher education, hospital units, prisons or social services of the Public Administration. The nutritional and food quality of the meals served in these canteens may be increased by the use of foods produced nearby and by more sustainable methods. This is not only a way of valuing the products and income of small farmers, but also of promoting energy efficiency, better preservation of the environment and combating the depopulation and abandonment of rural territories. This practice also has positive effects on the quality of food, which is consumed fresher and with less preservation treatments. Small farmers face enormous difficulties, as mentioned yesterday. The concentration of distribution and marketing circuits by large companies leads to the abolition of distribution and the lowering of prices paid to the small producer. The large distribution, often with aggressive practices, also leads to the fact that sometimes the price paid for production is below the actual price of production and without such lowering, it is said, has an impact on the final consumer. The implementation of short circuits in food production, as we propose here, is a contribution to reducing the country's agri-food deficit and consequently the commercial balance. In addition, the appreciation in the public procurement of beneficial criteria for the economy, for the environment and for food can also have a positive impact, providing fair income and channels of flow of products from small family farmers. In March of this year, the Left Block presented here, in the Assembly of the Republic, a draft resolution that already recommended this path. Unfortunately, this project would be rejected at the time. Now, through this bill, we present the proposal to effectively promote the use of local food products in public canteens. We propose that, in the procurement contracts for food products for these catering units, account should be taken of the distance, the environmental cost and the transport costs of the products. The expansion of production and distribution networks originating in family agriculture requires an effective link between supply and demand. It is essential to concentrate the supply so that operators responsible for the public canteens can access these products under efficient conditions. in this sense, in our view — and so on — we should encourage associations, organisations and federations of agricultural producers to set up sub-regional plants for the collection, control, packaging and distribution of products of local origin. We also value more beneficial methods of production for the environment, proposing that these contracts should be preferred by certified products of integrated production, organic production, protected designation of origin, protected geographical indication or integrated protection. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the way we propose here is that of the effective development of agriculture and not only that of the defence of small producers against the big ones, which would no longer be very small. What we are trying to do is to avoid the abandonment of agriculture, to reduce the waste of a significant part of national agricultural production, to combat the breakdown of prices paid for production and the sharp fall in the income of small family farming. All this—and I stress 'all this'—with obvious food, environmental and economic gains.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u56	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u57	Mr President, I will now conclude. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, I say that there are, in fact, some beneficiaries of the abandonment of small agriculture. It is on the side of these small agriculture that we place ourselves instead of those who benefit from their ruin. [[Congratulations on the BE, the PCP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u58	To present Bill No. 66 / XIII ( 1. ( a), Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and others present in the Room : This weekend at lunch, at any home, at any of us, we can have on the Italian potato dish, South African carrots, Thai beans, Australia calf, Guatemalan broccoli, California strawberries and New Zealand blueberries for dessert. Only the transport of the food of this meal generates 650 times more greenhouse gases than if the said food had been cultivated and purchased locally. The total quantity of kilometres that all of these "traveling foods" add up from the field to the table is 81,000, the equivalent of two rounds to the planet Earth. I repeat, two whole rounds to planet Earth. The global harmonisation of agricultural production is destroying our agrobiodiverse and nutritional heritage, as well as our gastronomic traditions. The current production and distribution model still has serious impacts on small and medium-sized farmers, who are often forced to abandon agricultural activity. with regard to production in organic agriculture, it is increasingly assumed as an opportunity for Portuguese agriculture. This mode of production makes use of environmentally friendly methods and practices, allowing sustainable management of the environment and promoting the health of those who consume it but also of those who produce it. The current way of producing food is completely illogical to the point of labelling natural or organic foods as organic foods, but not to label foods produced with agrochemicals as toxic foods, giving a false sense of safety to all citizens who consume them daily. In view of this inconsistencies of globalization and food uniformization, the NAP considers it essential that the State propose, as a positive example, a gradual integration of local and biological products into the canteen and public administration's meals menus. in respect of organic foods, we propose, in the first phase, the introduction of a percentage equivalent to a soup in the first years. This measure aims to preserve — and I will now finish, Mr President — the biodiversity and regional and national varieties, the regeneration of national soils and ecosystems, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the promotion of improvements in public health and the sustainability of the National Health Service ( SNS ). This gradual introduction will also be beneficial for local economies and national farmers, thereby reducing the weight of food imports and ensuring, mealtime, genuine food security and sovereignty. Eating is a political act and it is in the hands of each of us to make a difference! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u60	To present Bill No 71 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the Greens Ecological Party for once again bringing this matter to debate. In fact, in the previous legislation, we had the opportunity to schedule and discuss precisely this issue in the plenary, because here we find a useful and practical way, in accordance with Community law, to respond to the needs of both local production and hence also to give encouragement, encouragement, additional comfort to national producers, both in the production of a very relevant and undisturbed effect on the environmental impact of trade on agricultural products. In fact, this option for products of proximity has an obvious advantage with respect to transport costs, packaging costs, storage costs, logistics costs. Therefore, often the myth that is created around the enrichment of the activity or acquisition of these products by products such as those mentioned and are certified often does not correspond to what reality can offer if there are adequate and correct incentives. Therefore, we also seek to find formulas already tested in Community legislation to value integrated production, biological production, protected designation of origin, protected geographical indication as factors to be introduced either in direct management or in acquisitions when they are granted to external entities. In fact, the draft law that we present today, also in the line of the others that are being discussed today, are relatively simple, because when management is provided directly by public institutions is relatively simple, it is a question of giving guidance on the way in which the products concerned are purchased and made. Even in situations where we have the outsourcing of these services—and there are many cases in canteens and public meals in which this happens—, it is enough to adapt the contract books, the competitive procedures, the procedures for the acquisition of services, so that they contemplate, increasing those who present better solutions, the purchase of products with these characteristics. It also seems to us that this option cannot be passed by the national public purchasing system, i.e. we must build it in the privileged place where the entire Public Administration finds a response to the acquisition of goods and services, in particular those that are closest and who are able to offer integrated answers. This is also a good opportunity for us to launch a debate, which will have to be followed in other areas, particularly with regard to food education, where can the canteens of public schools play a key role. in the past, we have even associated this initiative with another one, about the school fruit programmes, which we hope to revisit in this legislature, because, in fact, to attach this discussion, which has a fundamental impact on the economic life of the country, with this one that concerns the quality of life, sustainability and healthy eating habits at school, it seems to us to be absolutely fundamental. Therefore, there is a broad consensus on this subject this morning, which we believe is essential for the debate to continue in a structured manner and for this to be a first of several steps which we can take throughout this Parliament and which we hope will also have quite cross-cutting support. There are, in fact, several initiatives, a lot of work that can be done in the field of expertise to improve them and therefore I reiterate our willingness to discuss all the initiatives. This is the appeal I leave here in the presentation of these diplomas. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u62	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in agricultural productive potential, the dynamization of the rural world and the incentive to consumption of national food products were defended by the PSD in the previous legislation and continue to be, as it could be. Among many, the best example was the creation of the Portugal Sou Eu initiative, which had precisely this objective. Much has been done since then, so it is urgent to continue the work done in order to further reduce the country's external food dependence and promote the local economy. Without jeopardizing European legislation, we need to create conditions for small local producers to drain part of their production through public canteens and restaurants. thus, we will promote the local economy, drastically reduce the ecological footprint, the fruit of smaller transport distances, reduce the energy costs with the storage and distribution of food, replace imports and provide a healthier diet. We therefore presented a draft resolution to consolidate this positive development. in this matter, more than an ideological question is pure sense and good governance. However, the proposed bills do not solve problems, create other problems and increase costs. Thus, the Greens Ecological Party continues to present these initiatives and the Socialist Party, Left Block and PAN partners go after these legislative initiatives, many of them redundant, and put in the same bag subjects that should each have their own space for discussion and decision. in fact, these initiatives do not solve problems of local production; they may endanger, at certain times, the performance of the service of the canteens or, then, the disrespect of the law;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u64	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u65	... they intend to create bureaucratic and administrative structures with high operating costs; possibly they do not comply with the rules of public procurement; and they will be very likely to be illegal under Community law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u66	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u67	In conclusion, it is important that canteens and public meals provide balanced and healthy meals; it is important to safeguard production and stimulate the consumption of national and quality food products; it is also important that the promotion of our agricultural products, our traditional and regional products should be promoted; legislation on proximity markets should be used as an opportunity for the growth of local economic dynamics. The former PSD/CDS-PP governments have done their homework; now, it's just going on. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u68	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes the parties that have presented draft laws on the use of national agricultural production in public canteens and restaurants, particularly the Greens Ecological Party for its persistence in this area. We recognize the contribution that is intended to make to ensure the flow of local production at fair prices. The prices paid for production are undoubtedly the most sensitive issues that agriculture is going through and particularly affecting smaller producers. More and more productions in Portugal are being paid below production costs. It is the obvious case of milk, with prices per kilo to 19 cents, or that of potatoes paid at 5 cents, which led many farmers to leave it on the ground. Meanwhile, for every 10 € of agri-food products sold in supermarkets, farmers receive only 1 €, while the supermarket is 7, 50 €. Given the complexity of the problem, the CFP appreciates the initiatives, but is aware that they will be a contribution that will not provide substantial measures to enhance local and national production. It is in this context that the draft resolution of the CFP, discussed yesterday, which proposes a set of priorities for family farming aimed at establishing a status of Portuguese family farming, points out as one of the measures the creation of channels of flow of national family production to schools, hospitals, military facilities and other institutions with public functions. But it does not stay here and presents other proposals that go through tax and contribution measures, redistribution of support, guarantee of fair payment to production, recovery of the intervention capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and the enhancement of public services within the country. Another relevant issue of the projects, and not dissociated from the previous, is related to a search for improvement of the quality of the dispensed feeding. For the CFP, the issues of product quality and the proximity of production are related to another, which is family farming, small and medium-sized agriculture, which effectively produces more quality and proximity, in addition to making a fundamental contribution to the settlement of the territories. Finally, I would like to leave the reference that the CFP follows, as I said, the objectives of the draft laws, only with a safeguard which is related to a specific article in the PS bill and which has already determined, in the previous Legislature and before the similar project, the PCP's abstention. This concern concerns the possibility of defrauding the objectives of the projects. Local production consumption implies the possibility of entities being able to purchase locally. However, the process of granting private canteens and meals to private entities is at the outset a limitation on local purchases, even more so when it involves the State shopping centre, forcing in Lisbon to buy the products to be consumed in Beja or Bragança, which, in fact, will not be very different from the shopping centers of the large distribution. This is a concern that we have maintained and that, like the whole process of realising these proposals, requires careful implementation so that they can meet the objectives proposed, including strict follow-up with regular budgets to ensure that small production is not marginalised. [[PCP, PAN and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u70	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Ladies and gentlemen: The bills submitted by the Greens Ecological Party by the Left Block, by the PAN and PS, which are currently under discussion, all aim to promote the use of food products of national production, preferably by local or regional, in public canteens and restaurants. This is a matter of relevant interest to the national economy, especially since it is largely ensured by small agricultural enterprises which are essentially familiar, as has already been mentioned, and in this regard the CDS supports, and has always supported, all initiatives that promote and value local production and economy, which create jobs and retain value and population in the territory. This is proof of the many initiatives we have had in the last Parliament, in particular draft resolutions 32 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ), 258 / XII ( 1. ( a ) and 1374 / XII ( 4. ( a ) to recommend to the Government precisely the promotion of consumption of products of Portuguese origin and to materialise in particular in the creation of the Portugal Sou Eu brand, as mentioned here, in the creation of local producer markets and in short distribution circuits, or in the unanimous approval of the draft resolution of the Green Greens Ecological Party on combating food waste. In this regard, I would like to stress the success of the Portugal Sou I programme in the food sector, since the 395 companies that joined represent a total of 3562 products, 67 % of which are food and beverage sectors, represent a turnover of more than EUR 3000 million and 12 000 jobs (mostly national employment). I would also like to stress the fundamental importance of the organization of production so that small producers, who are the ones we are dealing with, gain size and that purchasing is also more efficient. However, the draft laws currently under consideration differ substantially from one another in some areas, since the fact that the diplomas of The Greens, the Left Block and the NAP impose a minimum purchase quota of local/national products with which we cannot agree that the imposition of quotas does not promote excellence; quite the contrary, it is the enemy of it. in the case of the draft law of the NAP, it is still intended to reach a quota of 100 % of organic agricultural products, which is at least utopian, in our view, to achieve with national production. On the other hand, the PS bill makes it clear that it wishes, and I quote, « to ensure, with legal support, the introduction of objective criteria in the procurement procedures », further states that this acquisition should not call into question other legal regimes, including compliance with the principles of the single market. Only that this bill is completely omitted in this legal support, referring its regulations to the Public Administration Shared Services Entity. So, Mr. Members, it is this CDS bench that it is important to introduce mechanisms that favour, within the framework of Community competition rules, the purchase of local and regional products in public canteens and restaurants by promoting the local economy, a lower carbon footprint, a healthy diet and, moreover, contribute to the reduction of food waste; however, the quality of the foodstuffs acquired cannot be questioned. For this reason, the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups delivered yesterday a draft resolution recommending that the Government promote this consumption, as well as extending existing initiatives to promote national products, such as the Portugal Sou Eu programme. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u72	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very telegraphically, I use the floor only to leave two notes concerning Mr Cristóvão Crespo, PSD, and Mr João Ramos, PCP. Mr Cristóvão Crespo, there are two questions that I do not think are reflected in the project as discussed. First of all, the question of him being potentially violator of the rules of public procurement. Far from that — moreover, the options taken in the initiative which the PS presents will precisely replicate provisions of Community legislation, namely Community regulations, mainly those which operated the school fruit programme and which enabled us, on the basis of these criteria, to use objective criteria which the Community legislation itself accepts and which are those of certified production, among others, which, as I said, result from Community legislation. Secondly, it does not seem to us to be a redundant initiative, because in fact the bill presented brings legal correspondence in the preparation of competitive procedures, while what we have had so far is only intentions and proclamations. Another point I would like to stress has to do with the question of costs. Far from increasing costs, the dynamisation and the possibility of putting the offer will facilitate the creation of scale, which today does not exist, and create an opportunity, which today does not exist, so that we can effectively reduce costs in the acquisition of some of these products.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u74	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u75	Mr Ramos would like to leave a telegraphic note: we are fully available to caution and to modify the wording, but in fact, what we wanted was to provide for all cases where there is today the acquisition of consumer goods in canteens, including the possibility of acquisition being through the public procurement centre, and it is therefore also necessary to put the criteria there. But, obviously, we cannot favour any type or form of acquisition; it is only intended that there too, since it exists and is a modality, it is planned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anyone who hears Mr Cristóvão Crespo's speech and makes a correct interpretation of what has been said here and how much has been said here will think that the Community rules only serve to screw us and not to help us. This is because, when it was to liquidate the national productive activity, you did not open your mouth; now, when it comes to reverse logic and trying to encourage the re-enhancing of our productive activity, you say: "We wanted to, but the Community rules do not leave". Let go, Mr. Deputy! Let's look seriously at the questions. On the issue of increased costs, I must say that there are no increased costs, these costs already exist in the canteens. It is not even a question of taking your hands to the head with costs or budgetary rules that could prevent this matter. We cannot do as you do on a permanent basis, that is, there is a problem, the principle that the Greens here propose is correct, but there is nothing we can do about it. They're always on their feet and hands tied. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go! Look at the problems of Portuguese people, look at the problems of the country and let's solve them step by step, let's make a contribution to this! Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS spoke even in food waste. Now here is a project that The Greens present today and that contributes precisely to the reduction of food waste. If all phases of the food chain have implications for this food waste, if we reduce the stage of transport and conservation, we are also contributing to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u78	Mrs. Deputy, I'd appreciate it if you'd finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u79	I'm done now, Mr. President. There are therefore many advantages here from an environmental, social and economic point of view that we cannot waste. The Greens will vote in favour of all bills so that, in the specialty, a discussion process is opened, which the country needs. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u80	Mrs. Members, at the conclusion of the second point, we will begin the third item on the agenda, with the general assessment, and together, of the projects of lein.o 976 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, first amendment to Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 September, first amendment to Decree-Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, first amendment to Ordinance No 421 / 2004 of 24 April — prohibits indiscriminate slaughter of animals by municipal chambers, establishes a policy for the control of the populations of erring animals and establishes additional conditions for the creation and sale of pet animals ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens) and 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and for the modernisation of municipal veterinary services ( CFP ). To present Bill No. 65 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the subscribers of the Citizens' Legislative Initiative, an important instrument of political participation. I would also like to welcome the many Portuguese people who are working to promote animal welfare. In fact, there is increasing concern about the way animals are treated and it becomes evident that the number of those who consider the principle of systematic and compulsive slaughtering is increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u83	In addition, there are several good examples of more positive ways of treating and caring for errant animals, captured by the local power, highlighting the experiences of zero slaughter in several animal collection centers at different points in the country. Despite the approval of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 69 / 2011, four years returned, reality on the ground has not yet changed everywhere and there is no uniformization of procedures. Thus, the CFP understood to bring again this matter the discussion with a draft of its own law, for which it included the reflection and contributions of animal protection associations, in order to reinforce some of the principles already assumed in the above-mentioned Resolution. To this end, it is of fundamental importance to establish a network of animal collection centres and to modernise municipal veterinary services, giving priority to the most degraded, obsolete or insufficient facilities and facilities. The change in paradigm, passing from a logic of slaughter to a logic of sterilization, implies the involvement of the population, associative movement and the state. As such, we advocate awareness of animal welfare issues from 1 onwards. the cycle of basic education. We strengthen the need for a dynamic link between the government, local authorities, the association movement and non-governmental environmental associations to carry out campaigns to sterilize errant animals, adopt abandoned animals and campaign against abandonment. Each year that passes without being taken, and put into practice, effective measures is another year in which 100 000 dogs and cats are slaughtered in our country. The hardness of this number necessarily has to make us reflect on alternative directions to take. in this case, neither the argument to be a disadvantageous path to the public record has any validity, because the promotion of adoption and sterilization involves less costs than the maintenance of captured animals, with consequent slaughter and incineration. It is necessary to stop the brutal indiscriminate slaughter procedure, before choosing to lower the errant animal population slowly, but continuously, controlled and safe. The implementation of CED programmes — Capture, Sterilization and Return — in particular for urban cats, is one of the ways in which it should be privileged. At the same time, the incentive and awareness for animal adoption should be stimulated by focusing on abandoned animals and fostered orphans, groups with less skills and self-sustainment capabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have expressed our willingness to allow the proposed law of the CFP to be brought down to the committee responsible so that, as a matter of specialty, further discussion may take place. We express our openness to this, hoping that, in our specialty, we can find the way to finally take a step forward in this matter. [[PCP, PS and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u86	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and others present in the Chamber : I want to begin by greeting the subscribers of the Citizens' Legislative Initiative and all the animal protection associations here present, which have been replacing the State in their functions for many decades, treating the animals with the dignity they deserve. To you, our immense gratitude. The beginning of this legislation is marked by the end of manifestations of violence and discrimination against people and it is also important to extend our empathy to other, non-human beings, who are by many of us considered members of the family. This legislation may also be the beginning of a new era for animals, where they can finally be recognized the right to life, the right not to be slaughtered on any municipal canile, the right to have a second chance. Many of us believe that human beings are different from other animals because they have a certain level of intelligence. This rationality does not make us superior to other species but, yes, it is responsible for them. At this moment and in this room, I recall Jeremy Bentham's words: "It doesn't matter whether animals are incapable or not of thinking. What matters is that they are able to suffer». It is not worth criminalizing animal abuse when its slaughter is institutionally permitted. More than 100,000 dogs are killed every year in dogs. Don't be deluded, this is crime! For decades we have been pursuing a policy of slaughter that clearly does not work because overpopulation of animals is obvious. It is time to evolve and go to the source of the problem, reducing the number of animals born, for example, by sterilization. This initiative deserves to be discussed in Parliamentary committee, not only for a matter of respect for democracy and for all citizens who have subscribed to it, but also for the sake of peaceful debate and due time between all parliamentary groups. Only in this way will it be possible to find a solution which is both realistic and applicable in the short term, which will dignify animals and be socially just. The degree of civilization of a particular society is also measured by the way animals treat and the NAP is here to fight and ensure that we live in an evolved, fraternal and harmonious society among all beings. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u89	Mr President, Colleagues : First of all, a greeting to all those who, in the past and now, continue to fight for this cause. All of us, as an evolved society that we are and we intend to be, cannot fail to worry about and seek the best solutions to a problem that is real, such as animal overpopulation and what to do with it, as well as we cannot continue to deny the discoveries of science regarding the ability of non-human animals to exhibit intentional behaviors, discoveries that were the subject of registration in the Cambridge Declaration in 2012. The fundamental issue that brings us here today has been gaining special attention from civil society, to which Parliament has not been outside, much less the Socialist Party, which has been accompanying this matter since the 1990s when, by the PS, this issue was first discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u90	Also in the last legislation, several legislative initiatives were presented by the PS, such as the draft amendment to the Civil Code, creating the legal status of animals, the project approving the sanctioning regime applicable to animal abuse, approved in this Chamber, and the project establishing the framework for sanctions on crimes against pet animals, also approved. In fact, in the Government Programme there are proposals aimed at animal welfare, underlined by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, in the discussion of the Government Programme. in this framework of animal welfare, the PS Government considers it necessary: to review the system of slaughter of pets in cans and municipal cats; to value, within the framework of citizenship education, the components relating to social, environmental awareness and promotion of animal welfare; to review the legal regime of sale and detention of wild animals, as well as pets, with a view to their restriction and adequacy to best practices; to review the legal status of animals, not to consider them as things and to complete the legal framework of the crime of animal abuse. As for the legislative initiatives under consideration, they bring several positive aspects and go on the path that we have always considered correct, such as strengthening awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns, adoption and implementation of the RED programme, a programme that proposes to collect, sterilize and return, and the possibility of the authorities that already possess canis and cats to establish collaboration and use protocols with neighbouring municipalities or the trendy establishment of abatement-zero. However, with a view to ensuring the necessary depth of the debate and ensuring the adoption of measures with as much consensus as possible, the PS will request the Commission to be discharged without a vote of the draft laws under discussion. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u91	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are making a discussion that often begins to be sent. Sometimes, in relation to one statement, it is enough to do another one that is contrary to that one to be against everything and against everyone. First highlights this discussion: the CDS has long defended, practiced and executed issues of animal welfare and animal protection and compliance with legislation regarding canis and cats. this is an example of the municipalities led by the CDS. Some of the issues raised in this Citizens' Legislative Initiative have concerns far beyond what is announced, above all, is an initiative against many issues in the rural world. We see: on the basis of this bill, it is intended to prohibit the sale of pet animals in pet stores, supermarkets, fairs and markets, where treated animals are sold, cared for and taken to the population in rural areas, usually in the most depressed rural areas. I would like to ask how we could preserve some of our breeds. For example, the working castre race how can it be preserved, maintained, promoted, if not so? The star's saw race how can it be sold, if it's not this way? But also in this bill it is intended to prohibit the sale of animals via the Internet, the use of a more than reasonable means of promoting animal welfare today, even what our indigenous races are. As regards the prohibition on animal exposure for sale, one asks: how can a pet be purchased if it is not exposed? More: in the case of collection of animals in dogs or cats, the prohibition on the delivery of animals collected for any purpose is observed. In other words, when it comes to an animal guarding a canyl, if an invisible citizen intends to stay with it, by adoption or acquisition, it is forbidden to use, then, as a guide. As is forbidden the use of a dog stored in a canil as a shepherd dog, although it is often precisely the end to which it is intended. But in this project there is still one issue for which I cannot fail to draw attention. in the ancillary sanctions of this project, the prohibition of the exercise of a profession or activity whose exercise depends on public title or on the authorization or approval of public authority, i.e., in the context of an accessory penalty for failure to comply with a situation provided for in this legislation may, for example, prohibit a person from being an engineer, doctor or lawyer, that is exactly what is stated in the initiative. I shall finish, Mr President, with a very specific question. In this bill, information on accommodation records is expected to be provided annually by the pet collection centres to the Food and Veterinary Directorate-General. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u93	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u94	It is reasonable to do so, but you may also ask: why? On what legitimacy and on what basis is this legislation based? But it is also planned to be delivered to any zoophyll association that asks for it. What is the justification? About what and why? Mr President, this draft will not be voted on today, until you have been asked for your discharge to the committee without a vote, but you will not deserve to be welcomed by the CDS, since the legislation currently in force, since it has complied — which, for example, the City Council of Lisbon is not doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u95	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u96	... which is why we have serious problems in the Lisbon Canal today — already guarantees animal welfare and animal safety in the case of pets. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u97	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals, Portugal has taken an important step in the recognition and defense of animal welfare. however, there is still much to be done. Many animals have been excluded from that law, as is the case with equidae, and it is important that effective monitoring of their application, which assesses failures and inadequacies in monitoring and response. Another urgent problem is the one we are dealing with today: the slaughter of animals in municipal collection centres, where tens of thousands of healthy dogs and cats are killed every year. Against this situation, the proposers, authors and subscribers of the citizens' legislative initiative that we are considering today have rightly emerged. New ways of dealing with the overpopulation of these animals are urgently needed, prohibiting indiscriminate use of compulsive slaughter. In order to respond to this problem and in line with what the proponents of the citizens' legislative initiative here today suggest, the public and municipal authorities must first transform the current slaughter canes into shelter and protection structures for victims of abandonment and ill-treatment, avoiding any violence, particularly the most serious, which is the deprivation of life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u100	They must adopt active policies to raise awareness of the responsible adoption of animals; they must effectively punish the abandonment of animals; and they must resort to sterilization and support the use of this technique by the needy owners. The RED programmes, already existing in some municipalities, of collecting, sterilizing and returning errant animals, should begin to cover the whole territory, the whole country. in the previous Legislation, the Left Block presented a bill for the prohibition of the compulsory slaughter of animals in the collection centers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u102	This bill has been dropped in the Assembly of the Republic, with the votes against the PSD and the CDS, but today in this Parliament we have a majority able to give this question a different solution and outcome. We therefore welcome here the authors and signatories of the citizens' legislative initiative, which we support,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u104	... because also in the way we treat animals we show, as individuals and society, what we are. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u105	Also for an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome this legislative initiative of citizens who have come to ask the Assembly of the Republic, through a very concrete bill and very concrete proposals, for greater dignity of non-human animals. I do not think it can be said that in recent years the Assembly of the Republic has been completely insensitive to the matter of protection of non-human animals, in particular through the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic of 2011 which focused on the control of the population of errant animals, or through Law No. 69 / 2014 which affected the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, or, at the end of the legislature, by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 93 / 2015...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u107	Madam Member, I'm sorry, allow me a little break. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot of noise in the room, so I ask you not to speak so loudly. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I said that in recent years the Assembly of the Republic has not been completely insensitive to the matter of protection of non-human animals, in particular through the 2011 resolution, of Law No 69 / 2014 and, already at the end of the legislature, by Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 93 / 2015, which rightly aimed at ensuring a new paradigm of control of the animal population. This resolution was proposed by The Greens and I believe that it translates such important subjects as studying the formation of a network of municipal canes with common rules, in order to promote and facilitate the adoption of animals, as well as to promote sterilization as a practice of controlling the population of Community pet animals or errant animals, i.e. to abolish the slaughter paradigm to move on to the sterilization paradigm as a method of controlling the animal population. In addition, responsible adoption of animals was encouraged by legal persons, schools, associations of residents or businesses, in addition to natural persons. We sought to guarantee real conditions so that the authorities could hire employees, not only the veterinary doctor, with the proper training and sensitivity to collect and treat animals. We also propose the promotion of greater monitoring of the official animal, dog and cat collection centres in order to ensure that these spaces comply with hygiene and safety legislation, as well as animal welfare health legislation. We also proposed to ensure compliance with the identification and information system of dogs and cats for the identification of animals, the promotion of campaigns to raise awareness of the population to care for animals, the promotion of sterilization, as I have already mentioned, inserted in the collection, sterilization and return, as a means of controlling the reproduction of errant animals, and the establishment of the principle of the non slaughter of animals, with very restricted exceptions, in particular, allowing the practice of euthanasia in the event of irremediable suffering of the animal. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a resolution that is in force, but which requires, however, a great awareness of its practice and effective measures for its implementation. With regard to the citizens' legislative initiative, we will vote in favour of the committee's application for discharge, because we believe that it can promote the intensification of a debate in the Assembly of the Republic, of which I believe that the Assembly of the Republic should of course not resign and should also encourage the practice of discussion and finding solutions to the problems. The Greens, of course, will contribute to this. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, PCP, PAN and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u109	Mr Nuno Serra also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating here today two proposals aimed at eradicating the slaughter of errant animals in municipal canies. If in the CFP proposal there is a good basis for a broad discussion on this issue, where municipalities, veterinarians, entities linked to the animal world may be included and, after that discussion, there will be an extended consensus here, yes, sir, on a solution, already the legislative initiative of citizens, whose scope extravagant this main issue, places us with many reservations as to their real intention. And why? Because the best way to value an animal is to give it due attention, it is to provide him with continuous welfare throughout his life. And this appreciation is as much as we spend more time with this animal, but we don't value an animal, leaving it in an apartment, in a room, in a balcony, hours in line, alone, waiting for the owner to arrive, nor does it value an animal choosing whether or not it is of race. For this reason, we find it incomprehensible that there is an attempt to segregation between animals of race and animals without race in this document. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u111	This document should be excommunicated from this prejudice and essentially based on an approach to animal welfare. It is also incomprehensible to prejudice about breed animals, conditioning their clearance, avoiding their reproduction, inhibiting their exposure, preventing their normal sale and creating incalculable obstacles to their detention and lodging.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u113	It is inexplicable that this document, implicitly, should make it the state to decide whether we are going to have an animal of race or without race, expolating us from what is our individual freedom of choice. It is still incomprehensible to apologize the extinction of select and autochthonous races, risking all the national genetic heritage. It is inexplicable that certain races are involved, knowing that many of them have been created and hastened to help man, some of whom are the eyes of those who do not see, others to save lives to those who have accidents, others to detect drugs and explosives, others to be central companions of more than 200 000 hunters who carry on chinetic activities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is willing to work to ensure a solution for the slaughter of errant animals and for animal welfare, but is not willing to use animals as an ideological, radical, prejudice-filled agenda that distinguishes the affections of animals, depending on whether they have a race or not. Animals don't deserve that hypocrisy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u114	Mrs. Members, we conclude the joint assessment of the projects of lein.os 976 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). We moved on to the joint debate of petition No 133 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by Alberto Fernando da Silva Santos and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to discuss again the need for the immediate construction of the IC35, in the Penafiel / Entre-os-Rios section, and the recommendation to the Government, and the draft resolutions 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ) and 37 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of IC35 ( Penafiel / Entre-os-Rios ) ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the more than 10,000 petitioners who have brought a fair claim to the House. The construction of the IC35 is a need that has been felt by the populations of various municipalities of the districts of Porto and Aveiro, especially in the region of the Vale do Sousa and the Basso Thamega and in the municipality of Castelo de Paiva. The construction of IC35 is essential to meet the mobility needs of these populations, but also to overcome structural delays and enhance the development of these regions, including the Sousa and Basso Thamega Valley, one of the poorest regions of the European Union, with an economic and social reality marked by unemployment and poverty, which needs to fight. The integral construction of the IC35 will have a significant impact, and it can be crucial for the development of the local economy — it will create more and better accessibility, greater ease of flow of products, thus helping the productive activities existing on-site and enhancing new activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u117	The construction of the IC35 means the existence of an alternative to the national road No 106, because this is a road that is not a mobility solution, it is a highly congested road, coexisting local motorized transit and of medium course, agricultural and pedestrian, in a path that is sinuous and without sealing, is a road with weak conditions of circulation and of great weakness, as unfortunately has been proved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After the tragedy of the fall of the Hintze Ribeiro bridge, in Entre-Rios, on 4 March 2001, a tragedy that marked these populations dramatically, many commitments were made and always postponed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u118	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u119	This House adopted, almost 15 years ago, a resolution which, among other measures, recommended the urgent construction of the IC35.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u121	The CFP has intervened in the defence of the realization of this investment, presenting projects in this House and proposals, at the head of State Budget, which were subsequently rejected. Today, the CFP again states that the integral construction of the CCI35 is urgent, it is urgent to respond to the aspirations and needs of these populations and it is urgent to guarantee their right to mobility. The integral construction of the IC35 must come out of the paper and be effectively realized.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u122	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u123	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that this is the meaning of the project presented here by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u124	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 10 000 petitioners have demanded that the Assembly of the Republic discuss and recommend to the Government the urgent construction of the IC35, and that is what the Left Block is doing here. I begin by greeting the petitioners—more than 10 000—and the populations of Penafiel, Castelo de Paiva, Marco de Canaves, Cinfanes, among others, and greet them for their righteous and long struggle. Just because anyone who knows the national road No 106, who knows that region, knows that one cannot admit that a road, such as the national road No 106, remains the stage of an accident every two days, or the stage of a victim every six days. This is the big problem or one of the major problems of the national road No 106: its high traffic, its high sinequality. Just as we cannot admit that the same national road No 106 continues to represent a kind of martyrdom for whom, every day, it has to do 5, 6, 10 km on that road, and it takes 40, 50 or 60 minutes to travel these few kilometers. We also said that it is a long struggle because for a long time the failure of the national road No 106 has been recognized and for at least 15 years it has been recognized and admitted the need for the construction of the IC35. But everyone knows that, in the same way that « good intentions are the full hell», many promises are also the full population. And that is what has been seen in recent years, only promises, promises in the role that have never come to reality and never come out of the paper. In fact, looking at the last PSD/CDS government, they can continue to say the same: only promises! PETI3 + ( Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure 2014 - 2020 ), which was a huge tool of propaganda, served in fact for former Minister Pires de Lima to come only to say that he was going to invest—it was investment in paper and little more than that—and served to continue this promise, which does not get out of the paper. And so it's time to change the paradigm, it's time to change the way we deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u126	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u127	I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is necessary for the current government to undertake the urgent construction of the IC35, but that it also combines this construction with the variant of the national road No 222, which links Castelo de Paiva to A32, and also the urgent construction of the Feira / Arouca variant, which would solve many problems and constraints to this region. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u128	Mr Fernando Jesus has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this is my first speech in the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, in this Parliament, I do not want to fail to welcome and present my compliments to Mr President, but also to all the Members of the House and to all the Members of Parliament. Members, voting for a good mandate exercise. I also welcome all the subscribers of the petition, which today we have been called upon to appreciate in the Assembly of the Republic and to welcome the legislative initiatives that have been presented on the need for the construction of the IC35. The national road No 106 has long ceased to be a route in a position to serve the populations, it has ceased to be a viable mobility solution, creating enormous problems today at the level of traffic flow that in it circulates daily, in particular the traffic of heavy goods and goods, and the road problems have been worsening, turning this road into one of the most vulnerable roads in the region, covering the municipalities of Penafiel, Marco de Canaves, Castelo de Paiva, Cinfanes, Arouca and Vila da Feira. Aware of the importance of this infrastructure for the development of the local economy, in particular of the contribution it can make to investment capture, to the establishment of enterprises and to the promotion of employment, and therefore to economic, social and territorial cohesion, the Government of the Socialist Party, since then, determined its integration into the Vouga Concession, which occurred in 2009. Sadly, during these years, especially during the governance period of PSD / CDS, little or nothing has been done. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u130	It should be noted that during the final phase of the PSD / CDS government, the evaluation carried out by the Working Group on Higher Value Infrastructure did not consider projects relating to the Penafiel / Entre-os-Rios launch and the variant of Santa Maria da Feira as priority, being placed outside the 30 priority projects. In the meantime, and in the final assessment of PETI ( Strategic Plan on Transport and Infrastructure ), which led to PETI3 +, the total amount of EUR 23 million was planned for the realization of these works. The project, however, started in EN15 during the last month of October, month of the elections, the section between the boundaries of the council of Penafiel and Paredes and EN106, with an extension of 2, 5 km, constitutes a main link between the city of Paredes and Penafiel, allowing the articulation of this route with the A4, the EN106, the access to the Hospital Padre Américo and the future IC35. on the same occasion, on few days of elections, the previous government announced in Penafiel...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u131	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the previous government, on the same occasion, on a few days of elections, announced, in Penafiel, the launch of the section of the ICC35, between Penafiel and Rans, within only 1, 5 km. This tender is in the process of evaluating the proposals and is expected to start in April 2016. Mr President, we must not fail to mention that the former Government used the IC35 in an electoral logic, not only from autarchical elections but also from legislative elections. [[Well remembered!]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u133	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u134	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. We must also point out that this investment was and is worthy of a high regional political consensus, bearing in mind that the PS, PSD and Block Left presented here several initiatives, always plunged by the majority that governed us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u135	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u136	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we have every hope that the government that has now been in power, the Government of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u137	The honourable Member has already spent almost twice as much time as he had available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u138	... will encourage the implementation of this launch, in particular through the implementation of the projects that are needed between Rans and Entre-os-Rios. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u139	It is not enough to say that you will conclude, Mr President. For an intervention, I now give the floor to Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by exalting the approximately 10 000 signatories of this petition, an initiative which has the merit of bringing to the discussion the important issue of the ICC35. This is a matter which has the commitment of the CDS, as was evident in the draft resolution that we presented in this House last March, and in which we recommended that the Government move forward with this intervention, programmed in PETI3 +, i.e. with the construction of the section of the ICC35 between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios. This section of the IC35 is undoubtedly a fundamental work for the populations of Penafiel, Marco de Canaves, Castelo de Paiva and Cinfanes. This is a achievement, the importance of which was recognised by the PSD / CDS government, which has therefore entered it into PETI3 +, already running the competition for the first piece of this work. And I hope that this will continue to be recognized by the new PS Government, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens. [[It's to go on! It's not to ruin!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u141	It is that, although the PCP and the Left Block, in the draft resolutions that are also under discussion here, they want to make believe, in their usual demagogy, that the PSD/CDS government did not intend to carry out this work, the fact is that it was envisaged in PETI3 + and, I repeat, is currently running the competition for its first instalment, having, even— listen well, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — the deadline for submitting tenders by the competitors has been completed. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u142	For those who do not know, as seems to be the case of the Left Block and the Communist Party, PETI3 + foresees the completion of this work until December 2017. Thus and in conclusion,... [[Protests by PS Minister Fernando Jesus.]] Listen, listen, Mr. Deputies. I'm very happy to give you good news. Thus, if the outcome of the October elections had been respected by the PS and its walking comrades, the work would be ready until December 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u143	Is it? Oh, my God! Don't tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u144	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u145	I will finish, Mr. President. As such, I ask the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens : when do they foresee the completion of this section of the IC35? on our part, on the part of the CDS, as in the past, we defend the need for the construction of this piece of the IC35, between Penafiel and Entre-os-Rios. That's how you think, too. Members of the parties now of the government. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u146	Mr Luís Vales has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No one in this House can present himself as an exclusive defender of this case. The construction of the CI35 translates first and foremost a need for populations. And, despite the difficulties of financing, our former Government announced the construction of the work,... [[PS Protests and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ... but it was the socialist governments that successively postponed the realization of the IC35. [[Well remembered!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u148	It was the socialist governments who preferred to advertise motorways, TGV (high-speed train) and airports. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u149	Now, when the project is scheduled, the PCP and the Left Block, allies, indeed, of the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u150	Mr President, I apologize for the interruption, but you want to ask the House for some silence so that we can hear the speaker. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u151	As I said, now, that the project is scheduled, the PCP and the Left Block, PS allies, come to ask for the conclusion of the IC35? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, not advance to account, the IC35 is a reality. [[Well, there it is!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u152	The implementation of the access corridor to IC35 until Rans will be completed until September 2017. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u153	If it were the will of your coalition partner, if it were the will of the PS, this matter would be forgotten. [[I'd be in the drawer!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u154	We're just asking the PS not to move in this process! Don't mess up! Let the play finish! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u155	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CFP, we should be strict about the contextualization of your draft resolution : the elections of last October 4 did not dictate the defeat of the PSD/CDS government. [[Laughter and protests of PS, BE and PCP.]] They revealed, yes, the failure of the political project of the Portuguese Communist Party, which became the most insignificant political force on the left. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u156	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP will be the political master of this government, hammered at the top of the voter's will. Hiding-CL will be under the sand when you do it. It will be a multifaceted PCP, it will act as the hydraulic monkey of this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u157	He will use CGTP to infer the lives of citizens. It will contribute to the descalability of transport undertakings. He'll put Portuguese on Portuguese. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the IC35 is moving forward in a phased way and, with this work, we will improve the competitiveness of the region of the Thamega and Sousa, contributing to the safety of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u158	I would ask the honourable Member to conclude his speech and the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u159	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we promise and begin the works. Members of the PCP and the Left Block need not be afraid of not staying in the photograph with those who have promised and have done nothing. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u160	Mrs. Members, the joint debate on petition No 133 / XII is concluded ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolutions 22 and 37 / XIII ( 1. ( a). As in item 5 of the agenda we have draft resolution No 40/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Participation of the Assembly of the Republic in international parliamentary organizations ( the President of the RA ), which is intended only for voting purposes, will start the statutory voting period. First of all, we are going to check the quorum, using the electronic system for this purpose, for what I ask you to do. Members to register. As you know, for the vote, when the touch screen does not respond, you can and should use the mouse, which is on the keyboard. If the rat had been used, it would not have happened that interesting situation with Mr. Deputy, Secretary-General of the CFP, and with other Members at the session in which the motion for rejection was voted a few weeks ago. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, have not been able to do so or have been able to do so will have to signal to the Bureau so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 211 presences, to which 4 are added, making 215 Members, so we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Members, vote No 7 / XIII ( 1 ) is under consideration. ( a ) — Greetings for the 40 years of 25 November ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u161	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « It was celebrated last Wednesday on 40th. the anniversary of 25 November, the movement that contains the radical wing of the Armed Forces Movement, supported by the extreme left, and determined the pluralist and democratic nature of the Portuguese political and constitutional regime, in the path of the consolidation of the democratic process initiated on 25 April. On November 25, a singular and unrepeatable act of our history, indelibly marks the end of the revolutionary transition. The Portuguese people knew, not succumbing to the tactical and strategic maneuvers of a radical fringe of Portuguese society that could have surpassed in a civil war, reject an autocratic and internationalist view of Portugal. The Portuguese people were able, with republican firmness, to break with the 40-year dictatorship and accept a different path, which saved us from a new dictatorship, at that time tested by the communists, in the name of equality. The virtuality of this democratic path was based on a formula, unlike that of others, quite simple: changing government through free elections and without resorting to violence. This shift was decisive in order for Portugal to accept in its entirety an exemplary continuity in European and Western integration policy. Indeed, this understanding has prevailed over the past 40 years and has been shared by the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people. in this context, it is important to highlight the patriotic contribution of Jaime Neves and Ramalho Eanes and the democratic parties PS, PSD and CDS and the indomitive resistance of many others, which allowed Portugal today to be a democratic, prestigious, open and tolerant country, integrated into the European Union, in full development. It is under the sign of this unity made by history that we once again celebrate the day that has guaranteed the peaceful and democratic path of our people. Some may think that this evocation is superfluous, others will struggle to mark this moment as a day of freedom and democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u162	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the Members of the PS Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Elza Pais, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Paulo Pisco and Wanda Guimarães and the abstention of the PS and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u163	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u164	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u165	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PS parliamentary board will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u166	Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u167	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present an individual vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u168	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u169	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall inform the Bureau that I shall also make a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u170	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u171	Mr President, I would like to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u172	We now move on to vote No 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Congratulations on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women ( PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u173	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « In 1999 the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed 25 November as the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. This date has served as an engine to raise awareness and mobilize society and all political actors to eliminate violence against women and girls in all parts of the globe. in a world where: — 603 million women and girls live in countries where domestic violence is not yet considered a crime ( 125 countries, including Portugal, have already adopted specific legislation); — 6 in every 10 women in the world have already suffered physical and/or sexual violence in their lives; — 140 million women and girls suffer genital mutilation; More than 600 000 women and girls are trafficked across borders each year, the vast majority for sexual exploitation purposes; — 3, 9 million women “disappear” every year, whether by death to birth or by ‘selective abortion’, infant mortality or death during fertility, related to reproductive health and sexually transmitted diseases. It is important to continue to mark this date. It is, in fact, an undeniable ethical imperative to continue to do so. And the reasons for doing so are not just the ethical forum, even if these were more than enough. in the political plane, at the social level, at the cultural level, the challenges posed by different forms of violence against women continue to be on the agenda. But even at the economic level, which often does not come into this equation, the consequences of this global scourge are dramatic. The impact of violence against women is not limited to victims directly involved, affecting families, friends and society as a whole. It is necessary to analyse in a critical spirit the way in which society and the State respond to this type of crime. Measures are therefore needed to combat and prevent violence against women at international level, at European Union ( EU ) and at national level. Measures that can be used at European level to combat violence against women include the European Directive on the Rights of Victims of Crime ( 2012 / 29 / EU ) and the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ). The Istanbul Convention, adopted by the Council of Europe in 2011, which Portugal soon ratified, was the first legally binding regional instrument in Europe, which comprehensively addresses the different forms of violence against women such as psychological violence, persecution, physical violence, sexual violence and sexual harassment. Domestic violence is a serious violation of human rights. Women who are victims of violence are forced to refrain from fundamental freedoms and are vulnerable to new abuse. The studies conclude that these women have a three to eight-fold higher probability of having sick children, suffering emotional disturbances and resorting to suicide. Statistics show that one in five women is a victim of domestic violence and one in ten is raped or forced to practice sexual acts. And those who have an economical view of life must know that the costs associated with domestic violence are high. Violence against women is estimated to have an annual cost of EUR 33 billion in the member countries of the Council of Europe. Violence against women is one of the greatest obstacles to achieving equality and an attack on democracy. The visibility that the theme has come to acquire, associated with the redefinition of gender roles and a new awareness of citizenship, forced the public authorities to break silence and adopt policies to prevent and combat scourges. For the Executive Director of UN-Women, Phumzile Ngcuka, ‘only education and the quality of it will allow the change and elimination of prejudice’. Gender is learned from the earliest moment, from childhood, it is necessary to think of a gender education that is neither normative nor exclusive and that does not favor asymmetries, inequalities and violence. It is necessary to eliminate stereotypes and myths, to change gender representations and values that have perpetuated the existence of unequal relationships in the family, school and social environment. Universality is the only way to face human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is certainly necessary to take into account historical, cultural and religious differences, but it is up to all States to promote and protect all human rights, including the fundamental rights of women, regardless of their political and economic system and their culture. Equality requires positive and dynamic restoration of the structures of established power and stereotyped roles of both sexes, in order to achieve a structural change at all levels and finally achieve a new social order. Let this new order begin now with this new parliamentary framework, in the relevant committees and in the political and civic debate, since we have unique political conditions to weave it. The Assembly of the Republic, joining in the fight against all forms of the elimination of violence against women, welcomes this major date adopted by the United Nations, reiterates its commitment and firm mission to erect the fight against gender violence as a plan of all and of all and an ethical and political imperative. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u174	We shall vote on vote No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u175	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u176	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u177	Mr President, it is only to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u178	The following vote: No 10 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — Congratulations on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u179	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « On the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups raise and join their voices to condemn all forms of violence against women and girls. Domestic and gender-based violence is a serious and intolerable violation of human rights in Portugal, Europe and the rest of the world. Uniting efforts to combat this has been and will continue to be an essential purpose and priority for the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS. We do not tolerate that women and girls continue to be victims of any form of violence, whether domestic, sexual or, in the special case of girls, resulting from child marriage, early or forced, as well as female genital mutilation. We therefore record and applaud the joint statement on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, delivered yesterday in Brussels by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini and the European Commissioners Vera Jourova, Commissioner responsible for Justice, Consumers and Gender Equality, Nine Mimes, Commissioner responsible for International Cooperation and Development, and Christos Stylianides, Commissioner responsible for Humanitarian Aid and Crisis Management. We therefore note and welcome in particular the efforts made by the Portuguese State, in particular the 19th and 20th constitutional governments, to prevent and eradicate all forms of violence against women and girls. in this context, we stress that the Portuguese State was the first country in the European Union to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, adopted in Istanbul, on 5 February 2013. We also point out that since 2011 these governments have launched national awareness campaigns on conjugal homicide, on the negative impacts on children, the daughters of mothers who are victims of domestic violence and who are exposed to this type of violence, campaigns aimed at the entire CPLP community, aiming to alert the various forms of violence against women and girls and the general public, especially older people, in order to raise awareness about violence against older people and, finally, in the current year 2015, to conduct a campaign to raise awareness about violence in dating and specifically aimed at young people and young people. In addition to these actions, we highlight the following: — as a result of the signing of the cooperation protocol between the IGC and the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute, IP, 38 homes were allocated between 2012 and 2014 to domestic violence victims; — also the IEFP, IP, since 2012 has been following a technical approach aimed at priority care for victims of domestic violence, and has been attended until 31 May 1446 women and integrated 717 women in active employment and training measures and placed on the labour market; — increased training for the judiciary and the Public Ministry, the security forces, health professionals, social security and also training for the empowerment of victim support technicians and, finally, in 2015, the first training actions on specialized intervention with LGBT victims aimed at the professionals of the national network of support to victims of domestic violence. Despite the progress made in Portuguese society, through these actions, and recorded through official RASI data, the scourge of violence against women remains in Portuguese society and the number of its victims continues to be unacceptable, including the number of women victims of homicide perpetrated by their husbands/ ex-husbands or companions/ ex-companies. However, there are the parliamentary groups of the PSD and the CDS-PP that the initiatives mentioned have made a significant contribution to a significant increase in the social and political perception of this sad phenomenon, which has enabled their fight to be also more effective prevention. Despite these important advances, the Signatory Parliamentary Groups are well aware that the official numbers known and reported here are always dramatic and require that no political force cease to fight for this just cause."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u180	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a), which has just been read. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u181	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u182	Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of rock art as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ). To read the vote, you have the floor to Mrs.Mr. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u183	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « last December 1, 2015, the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO ), classified rock art as Immaterial Cultural Heritage with Urgent Rescue Needs. The Portuguese shock is an instrument of percussion (idiphone) with a single internal beat and is usually suspended in the animal's neck with the help of a leather strap. Its usefulness is related to the location and direction of the flocks, ‘ a species of cattle GPS that allows you to know where the animals are, ’ but also, on another aspect, ‘ create a unique and characteristic sound landscape, a rare beauty, seeking a timeless feeling of well - being. ’ The manufacture of shocks is an art initiated more than two thousand years ago — it is possible to find Celtic shocks of the first century B.C. which are identical to the current facts — ‘identified of the Portuguese countryside and rural world’, as can be read in the application presented to UNESCO. The manufacture of these instruments is a past ‘ tradition’ among generations, providing a ‘feel of identity and historical continuity’, which allows local communities to perceive this art as a ‘collective cultural heritage’, because despite such a tradition focusing essentially on the Alentejan region, it has a national dimension, such aspects highlighted in the UNESCO report. This distinction on the part of UNESCO will enable us to save this chocalheira art, which identifies a people and a way of life, from the risk of extinction, remembering that it is the first time that Portugal enters a cultural good on the list of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage with the Need for Emergency Safeguard. The recognition of the clash as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage with the Need for Emergency Safeguard enshrines a Portuguese secular tradition and is a tribute to all those who, over time, have known to preserve this cultural heritage of the Portuguese rural world and reverse the trend of disappearance of this art, ensuring the transmission of knowledge between generations and the future sustainability of activity The Assembly of the Republic is thus associated with the feeling of national congratulation for this recognition of the manufacture of shocks such as Imateria Cultural Heritage by UNESCO, congratulating all those who have prepared the candidature and greet those who, either in their manufacture or in their use, have consistently maintained and preserved this secular art. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u184	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 38 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences ( PACC) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u185	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the subject which we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u186	Thank you. We will now vote in general on Bill No 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sets out the requirements for access to the teaching profession and ensures the annulment of the effects of the skills and knowledge assessment test ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This initiative is also down to 8. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u187	Mr President, it is up to once again to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will issue a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u188	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 59 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the teaching retraining scheme ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] in this case, the bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 70 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the requalification of teachers ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has asked for the floor again. I guess it's to say that... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u189	It is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u190	All right. I was right, of course. We shall vote on draft resolution No 26 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recognition and strengthening of social economy entities ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] I don't know if Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves wants to say something... [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u191	Mr. President, not this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u192	We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure adopted by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February, eliminating the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment of more than 5 years ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The project goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by limiting the application of the summary procedure to minor crimes ( Procedure 24 ). the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This project also drops to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 68 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, repealing the possibility of judging in summary proceedings crimes with a criminal framework of more than 5 years'imprisonment ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The initiative goes down to 1. the Commission. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the definition of a set of priorities for family farming with a view to establishing a status of Portuguese family farming ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mr Ascenso Simões, for what effect did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u193	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I shall present a statement of vote in accordance with the assumptions of this CFP initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u194	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Francisco Rocha also asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u195	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u196	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Freitas also asked for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u197	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u198	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We will move on to the general vote on Bill No 61 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the disability regime and its supply, and adapting a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now have the general vote on Bill No 62 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Forty-first amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, criminalizing a set of conduct that violates the fundamental rights of the elderly ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We then vote in general on Bill No 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the sixth amendment to Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities'organs, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendant, approved by Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil regime of disabilities ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — preference for local food production in public canteens ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 66 / XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Transition to a healthier and sustainable diet in public canteens using local and organic agricultural products ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 71 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a regime for the selection of food products in public canteens and meals ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. Mr. João Almeida, for what effect did you ask for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u199	Mr President, it is to announce that, on behalf of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and on my behalf, we will present a statement of vote on the last four draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u200	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. José Carlos Barros, have you asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u201	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u202	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote on a PS request for discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, without a vote, for the 90-day period, for consideration, of Bill No. 976 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, sixth amendment to Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, first amendment to Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 September, first amendment to Law No 314 / 2003 of 17 December, first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, first amendment to Ordinance No 421 / 2004 of 24 April — prohibits indiscriminate slaughter of animals by municipal chambers, establishes a policy for the control of the populations of erring animals and establishes additional conditions for the creation and sale of pet animals ( Legislative Initiative of Citizens ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u204	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u205	Mr President, it is appropriate, in the form of an appeal, to ask the Bureau whether the plenary has the information that the proposers have announced that this request could be voted on, since it is a legislative initiative of citizens and that it must be the citizens themselves to give an announcement so that it can be brought down to the Commission without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u206	Yes, the information I have is that the representative committee of the citizens said nothing was to oppose. Let us therefore vote on this request. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The requirement therefore falls to 11. the Commission. We shall vote for another request by the CFP, requesting the same Commission to be discharged, without a vote, for the 90-day period for consideration of draft law No 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and for the modernisation of municipal veterinary services ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The requirement also falls to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 37 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of IC35 ( Penafiel / Entre-os-Rios ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Participation of the Assembly of the Republic in international parliamentary organizations ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on the joint text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the annulment of the sub-concession of the transport systems of the Lisbon Railway Company, SA ( Carris, SA ) and the Lisbon Metropolitan, EP ( ML, EP ) ( PS ) and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the transport systems of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u208	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u209	Mr President, it is to make a statement, if I may.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u210	A statement in the middle of a vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u211	Mr President, this is precisely a statement on the next vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u212	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u213	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that the office of lawyers in which I work ensures the representation of the winner of the sub-concession contest. As a lawyer, I did not have any direct or indirect participation in this process, but I still believe it is my duty, on the basis of transparency and ethics, to inform the House of that fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u214	Thank you, sir. You're up to your statement. Thank you for doing it. Let us then vote on the joint text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will now vote on another joint text, also presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft resolutions Nos 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the repeal and reversal of the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA and the Collective Transport Society of the Port, SA ( PS ) and 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the public management of the companies STCP and Metro do Porto ( Os Verdes ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, paragraphs 6 to 10, concerning plenary meetings of 18, 19, 20, 25 and 26 November 2015. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Ladies and gentlemen, however, you have given the Bureau a report and an opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members, which Mr Duarte Pacheco will do well to announce. You have the floor, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, he gave the Bureau an opinion of the Committee on the Verification of Credentials of Elected Members on the case 59 / 13.0TAGVA, of the District of Guard, Gouveia, in order to authorize Mrs Ángela Guerra, of the PSD, to intervene in the proceedings as a witness within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-11.u216	Let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on 16 Wednesday. The first item on the agenda is the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister and the second item is the debate, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the preparatory session of the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. Our work is closed. I wish everyone a good weekend. [[It was 12 hours and 50 minutes.]]
