ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u1	Mrs. Ministers, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, with the congratulations of the Bureau, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] You can open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 813 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen the protection of pregnant, puerperous or lactating women in the Labour Code ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 814 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Equal parenthood for the protection of women in maternity and employment ( BE ), which also falls to 10. the Commission, 815 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Reimposes rights in access to family allowance ( BE ), which also falls to 10. the Commission and 816 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( PCP ), which also falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolution No 1298 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Social responses to early childhood ( BE ), which still falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u3	There's still quite a noise in the room, so I ask you. Ladies and gentlemen who take their places. The first item on the agenda consists of the joint debate, in general, of three initiatives: Bill No 288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended third Act No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, removal and removal of aliens from national territory and the projects of lein 789 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Removes the golden visas from the immigration law and 810 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Regularization of immigrant and minor workers born in Portugal or attending the teaching system, both of which are part of BE. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the debate. To submit Bill No 288 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Vice-First Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When presenting this proposal for a change to the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory, the Government maintains what it has said since the first day — so-called golden visas are important for the national economy, its regime is improved and improved. Let's be clear about the advantages of the golden visas. In just over two years, the policy of investment residence permits brought more than EUR 1300 million to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u6	It would be foolish to refuse this foreign investment and it would even be abstract to offer such a wealth creation to any of the 14 foreign countries which, in Europe, compete with Portugal with similar regimes or even equal to the so-called golden visas. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On the other hand, residence permits for investment have, and have, undeniable importance in the dynamisation of the real estate sector, which was in recession and is no longer present. There are many foreigners who choose Portugal to have a home and the visasgolds have gone and are an advantage that has appeared at the right time—transactions have risen, growth has increased, jobs have been generated and urban renewal has improved. This in a market that was basically stagnant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u7	All right! Mr. Vice-Primeiro-Minister — A sectoral and independent study published yesterday places the so-called golden visas at the origin of at least 1 / 3 of the job created in residential tourism in Portugal in 2014, i.e. about 20,000 jobs generated in all activities that revolve around the real estate sector. It is also important to note the contribution that residence permits for investment make to improve the country's tax revenue. Let us not forget that in all illegal activities the foreign investor is taxed at the home of IMT, seal, IMI, deliberative rate or IRC. in the period of the so-called gold visas will have been collected from foreign investors, only for this reason, about EUR 120 million, which in particular has a positive impact on the accounts of several authorities. We then move on to what we can and must improve and improve in the system of residence permits for investment. The two nuclear concepts of the proposal we are bringing here are the strengthening of visa control and the opening up of golden visas to new areas of application to diversify investment. on the control side, the proposed amendments are basically these: the granting of golden visas will be regularly audited by the General Inspection of the Internal Administration, which means strengthening an external call ; the procedures will be instructed in the regional delegations of the Foreign and Frontier Service, which means strengthening an internal crivo ; the manual of procedures will be more precise and mandatory; the competences of the monitoring group are more defined and will be less interpretative; the information of the consular network becomes more evident. And I would like to draw attention to this fact: in the case of gold visas related to real estate, the presentation of the real estate card is required in order to provide greater comparability of the value of acquisition and the value of assets and taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u8	The other pillar of the reform innovates the regime in other areas and other territories. in this sense, we are especially concerned with the defence, made by various sectors of public opinion and published opinion, of conditions more favourable for the golden visa regime, continuing to have good results in real estate, give new opportunities in sectors such as science and research, art and heritage, specifically urban rehabilitation, and become more accessible to promote investment in territories marked by interiority or the disadvantaged character of its average income.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u10	Investment areas are not established but opportunities are open to the market to the extent that it considers them useful and interesting. Conceptually, golden visas should be able to be closer, from these changes, to science, culture and businesses and, if possible, to help place lower-income territories in our country in the geography of investment. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been and will be attentive to the suggestions to improve the golden visa regime: we write to the opposition parties, we hear personalities, we reflect and continue to reflect on proposals that make sense and that extend the consensus that is desirable. The final version of the diploma is important to give stability and horizon to this type of investment. Our openness is also our commitment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u11	The Bureau recorded the registration of three Mrs. Members to ask questions, namely: Mrs Cecília Honorio, BE ; Mr Telmo Correia, CDS-PP, and Mr João Oliveira, PCP. The Government informs that it will respond together. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u12	Madam President, I welcome you. Ministers and Mrs. And Mrs. State Secretaries. Mr. Vice-Prime Minister, the visasgolds are today associated with corruption and detention of high government leaders. They have no amendment or correction. This is at least the perception conveyed by all known opinion surveys. Perhaps Mr Vice-First Minister should even ask his electorate whether the golden visas are to maintain, in the profile in which he makes this bill. The idea that people are left with is that there is no control, because there will always be some possibility of favor, some weird business along the way. This is our perspective on this issue and, therefore, we present a bill that refers to the granting of residence permit for investment, because it is necessary to make the balance sheet. in total, until today, only three golden visas created jobs, 10 jobs—it was already the limitation and conditioning envisaged. It was 95 % for the acquisition of real estate, and the question that is being asked is what changes substantially with this bill. in fact, Mr Vice-First Minister, Article 3. little changes. In other words, EUR 1 million is entitled to a residence permit and EUR 500 000, for the acquisition of real estate, is entitled to a residence permit, with no guarantees that the framework of real estate speculation does not continue. We are able to see some positive aspects in other aspects of this proposal, particularly with regard to Articles 61. o or 122. the, who seek to attract and fix students, doctors, people who are attending master's degree or even to exercise teaching activity. We do not oppose this need for the attraction of qualified people, which I think is a relevant aspect, but there is another basic question to ask: Mr. Vice-First Minister, to attract qualified immigrants, certainly, and the others? And those who work, who continue to support this country and still have no access to a residence permit? What is the Government's response to these two fundamental questions? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u13	The next question lies with Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u14	Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the first and essential issue with regard to this visasgold regime is a fundamental issue, as we have just seen, which is this: either we agree with the regime or we do not agree, that is, the regime has merit in itself or does not. from this point of view, it should be clarified that this scheme has a very clear objective. The aim of this scheme is not to solve other problems that are next to it is not to solve the problem of immigration in general, it is to attract investment to Portugal, granting residence and — make it clear — not citizenship, as in other countries and other regimes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u16	... existing this regime in about 40 countries in the world. On the other hand, from the point of view of investment attraction, there is one fact that it is absolutely indisputable: that this scheme has granted more than 2000 residence permits, it has resulted in EUR 1, EUR 3 billion in terms of investment and the capital transfers regime had a value lower than that of real estate but still more than EUR 120 million. Of course, it may be appropriate to reflect a little, Mr Vice-President-Minister — and I will not stop asking him the question — on some of the criticisms made to this regime. The first, with which we do not agree but we know, is that it is a very concentrated property regime, particularly through Chinese investors, in particular who came to Portugal. But with regard to these investors, I do not see any criticism here either because we all know and no one will doubt, today, that, as someone said, friends are on occasion. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u17	I was really seeing you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u18	And it was very important that, on a difficult occasion, when so many people did not believe that the country could overcome the crisis, these Chinese investors helped Portugal and allowed, as someone also said — obviously, I refer to the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party — that the country today is much better than it was four years ago. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u19	There is, I am sure, Mr. Vice-Primeiro-Minister, critical of these Chinese investors who believed in Portugal, as Dr. António Costa very well recognized. On the issue of real estate, I have also heard many times say that real estate is not reproductive, it does not generate wealth. But, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, that would be a bit on the assumption that the houses appear made by themselves,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u20	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u21	... that there are no people to build the houses, there is no real estate market in Portugal, that was stopped and that these golden visas greatly helped to revive, that there are no people who have to do the maintenance of these houses, that the buyers of the houses do not leave taxes in Portugal, do not pay taxes in Portugal. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u22	Therefore, it is absolutely fair that anyone who buys a house, for more than this value, is allowed to reside in Portugal. On the other hand — and this is another concrete question, Mr Vice-President-Minister — it has been very much mentioned that the third pillar, so to speak, investment in job creation and business, is very short of capital transfers and much more short of real estate. I would ask you, Mr Vice-President-Minister, an explanation on this, and I think you may have to see it — but on that, Mr Vice-First-Minister will say so — with the fact that there are other programmes with other attractiveness and even more interesting than this, which could obviously be the explanation for this. But I'll leave you this question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u23	He's giving half an answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u24	In conclusion, Mr. Vice-First Minister, with the permission of Mr. Members of the other seats, I would like to say that, in the face of a programme that has had problems, in which difficulties, irregularities and even suspicions appeared, there are two possible ways: one is to reformulate it, improve it and make it more effective, and the other is to end it. When we find fraud, as we have seen in the past, the minimum income regime, I have seen no one propose that it should end with the minimum income; when we find fraud, for example, in the services and in the drug business, no one has proposed to end the participation in medicines. Obviously, the solution is not to finish, it is to improve, it is to change, it is to make the regime more effective. I think that is what the government is doing in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u25	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u26	I shall conclude, Madam President. If there are problems in driving letters, as I said, and well, Dr. António Costa in the Circle Square, it does not end with driving letters, the system is improved to make it more effective, and again I quote an important figure of Portuguese policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u27	It's not the end of social security either, it's just what was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u28	So, Mr. Vice-First Minister, are these changes operating results or not? What is the evolution of this same regime? Do we know that doubt has caused its results to fall for some time, but is it or is it not recoverable? What is the evolution, and what is the government's expectation of this development? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the time of the questions being imputed to the general time of the debate, it is appropriate not to exceed the normal time of the question in order to better balance the debate. In order to make requests for clarification by the CFP, I now give the floor to Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u30	Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister, in my earlier speech in this debate, I will have the opportunity to take into account the position of the CFP — which is not new — of disagreement with the existence of this mechanism, either in terms of immigration policy, but also in terms of economic policy, but also in other areas, which are the concerns concerning justice. The questions I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-First Minister, have to do with two of these three aspects, the first of which is: the Banco de Portugal, in the information that is publicly available on its website, has identified a set of practices as being used for money laundering. And three of these practices that the Banco de Portugal identifies at the stage of the placement of the capitals that are subject to bleaching are directly related to three of the activities that are covered by the gold visa mechanism, i.e. deposits in financial institutions, investments in productive or profitable activities and in high-value goods. Mr Vice-First Minister, if the Banco de Portugal identifies these three aspects as three of the practices that are used for money laundering and if the visasgold mechanism precisely foresees the use of capital in these three areas, the question I want to ask it is very concrete: after all, what importance does the Government give to these views of the Banco de Portugal and why does the Government insist on not translating these concerns of the Banco de Portugal into the regime which it presents to us today again? After all that happened to the visasgolds, after all the problems from the judicial proceedings and the criminal investigations involved in this visasgold mechanism, why does the Government insist on disregarding these issues that the Banco de Portugal identifies as ways of money laundering and does not provide any measure to prevent the golden visa mechanism being used for money laundering? This is the first question I wanted to ask you, Vice Prime Minister. The second question has to do with an economic policy concern. Mr Vice-First Minister knows as well as we do — he is the author of the 2013 Order which amends the 2012 Order, which was also his authorship, which the Government has changed the minimum quantities for job creation. We want to understand why the requirement for the award of the visa, of 30 jobs, has become 10 jobs, and what is, after all, the economic importance that the Government wants to give to this kind of mechanism. Mr Vice-President-Minister, we will, of course, have the opportunity to develop this aspect, but the question is that we have been confronted, still very recently, with the problem of people of other nationalities who have been mocked by the investments they have made in Portugal, particularly with investments in the real estate sector. So we already have the idea that there are not many mechanisms to control and verify how the businesses behind the allocation of the golden visas are carried out. But there is another problem, from an economic point of view, from the point of view of the demands — and, Vice-President-Minister, I am not putting the question in the concrete plane, then, of how the investment is made — which the Government itself does for the allocation of these visasgolds, and it seems to us that the fascia is beginning to be too low for all the economic importance that the Government seems to give to these mechanisms. Therefore, at this first stage, we would like to be able to clarify this decision, because it is important for us to understand exactly from an economic point of view what we are talking about when we talk about investments for the creation of wealth and jobs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u31	To reply, Mr. Vice-First Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with Mrs Cecília Honorio, whom I would like to congratulate, I would like to remind you of what the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party said in a television programme before these events: 'It is not because there is a case of corruption in the Directorate-General for Travel that ends with driving letters'. I would add: « It is not because there is a fraud in an evaluation that ends the examinations ». When there is a problem of legality, law and justice fall upon the problem and take their consequences. But what I would not certainly do was deliver to the 14 countries, which compete with Portugal in systems similar to that of the golden visas, the creation of wealth that can and should be done in Portugal. My role is not to contribute to the creation of wealth from foreign countries, it is to attract foreign investment to Portugal. The second point to which I would like to draw your attention — we have already had this difference, but I would like to stress this point again — is the following: the honourable Member confuses residence permits requested by express invocation of the point on the creation of a company which has a set of jobs with the impact on the labour market of investments in real estate. Madam Member, I think it's good sense to put aside prejudice about these things. Real estate is an economic sector and no country lives without it or against it. The real estate was stopped. The real estate gained dynamism, among other factors, with the golden visas: increased transactions, increased job creation, increased company remuneration and left taxes on Portuguese authorities and state, paid by foreign investors. As has already been said, the houses do not fall from heaven, someone has to build, someone has to maintain, someone has to rehabilitate, someone has to sell, someone has to promote, and this only to tell him about some of the economic activities that revolve around the real estate. Therefore, when there is EUR 1300 million mostly applied in real estate, saying that this has no impact either on the economy or on work I think it is not having accession to reality. And I strongly recommend reading a study, which is not from the government, is not from the majority, but from a professional association, the Portuguese Association of Resorts, made by a specific and identified consultant, about residential tourisminPortugal2014, which says that the creation of recognized jobs is about 60 000 jobs. What is related to the vissgolds in this growth? A third of this. One third of 60 000 are about 20 000 jobs. I do not think very little, Mrs Deputies, and I think that doing little of those who have an opportunity to work with a system that attracts investment is a consideration that gives more to prejudice than rationality. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u34	With regard to some of the aspects you have mentioned and which are relevant, I would draw your attention to the Strategic Plan on Migration, which has been approved today and which Parliament will certainly have an opportunity to discuss. And one fact that may have escaped him is that of the number of refugees in a particularly difficult situation who were reinstalled in Portugal at the beginning of the legislature, which doubled. Therefore, it is not possible, Madam Member, to want to contrast the attractiveness of investment, which is a government policy, with the protection of people in an extremely difficult situation, which is also a government policy. I don't think the contrast is worth it because the numbers don't show it. Mr Telmo Correia, whom I also welcome, raised two very relevant questions. The first has to do with the possibility of other programs. When people say that the visasgold have dynamized investment and led to capital transfers but that the point dedicated to creating companies had less impact, this is revealed by numbers but is also revealed by another circumstance: whoever wants to create a company and jobs in Portugal goes, first and second, to the system of contractual incentives that have existed for many years, which are wider and more attractive than a residence permit, which, in this case, is a plus but is not the essence of the contract made with the Portuguese State. That is why today, anyone who wants to create companies and invest in Portugal — and fortunately the investment has given quite positive signs in 2014 plus 5, 4 % in a year — goes to the Community funds, goes to the Investment Tax Code, goes to the investment contract trading regime, goes to the support to entrepreneurship, and ultimately it goes to the golden visas. Then, Mr President, and I am not one of those who can, even by allusion, mention foreigners according to their nationality, — Portugal has been a universal and universalist country for many centuries — and I want to say the following: it is clear that uncertainty about the regime, after quite spectacular growth, has generated a certain retraction in its demand. But it is also true that, from the moment that the government, listening to the opposition, as it was our duty, and seeking to reflect rational feelings of public opinion, and also of the published opinion, it has indicated what are the essential lines of visasgold reform, ensuring greater supervision and that they can apply to real estate, with certainty, where they have great success, to the transfer of capital, to the resilience of our system, where they were also significant, but also to areas such as innovation, science, culture, art, heritage and territories of lower income, from there, there is a certain recovery. And I use it to greet that fact. The number of processes that are for definition in the Foreign and Border Service is significant. If we compare February and January this year to February and January last year, we are a little below but we are already starting to recover, which is a good sign. The rule of law has, fortunately, a cost that must be paid to have the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u35	Would you like to conclude, Vice-President-Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u36	And the system is, in itself, worth attracting investment and creating wealth, it's perfect and that's what we're doing here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u37	To present the Bills of the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Cecília Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u38	Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister, to prove otherwise, fraud has entered the law door. In any case, in relation to objective cases, three visas have created jobs. Mr Vice-President-Minister has not yet challenged these data nor even the 'numbers' of jobs which say that the visasgolds have created so far. In any case, I want to take account of the two legislative initiatives that we are presenting here. The first eliminates golden visas, particularly affects Article 3. the very objectively eliminates the possibility that one who has EUR 1 million will have immediate access to a residence permit and that one who has EUR 500 000 will also have access to this guarantee through home acquisition. at the same time, we take advantage of this space in which we discuss fundamental issues, because we are moving into the immigration law, to make concrete proposals regarding the regularization of immigrants. Today, in Portugal, thousands of immigrants, who live here and work here, who make their social security discounts and pay their taxes and continue to be irregular citizens, continue to be citizens of a country that does not recognize them as such, as we have recently also been aware of this growing divide between first- and second-country immigrants. We do so with very particular care in Article 88 ( 2 ). this law, giving the guarantee of regularization of all these people that are necessary for the country. And we do so, particularly in the light of children and young immigrants, those who are within our teaching system and who are often still victims of irregularity. There is no sufficiently human law while there are children and young people convicted of irregularity. That is why we are presenting these two legislative initiatives here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u39	Mrs Celeste Correia wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u40	Madam President, Mrs Cecília Honorio, I have listened carefully and, as in 2012, we do not agree with you. But this is normal, Mrs Deputies, we are in different parties, we do different readings of reality and we have different proposals to change that same reality—that is what is happening now. Were there objectives that were not well defined? There was, yeah. Were there objectives that were not achieved? Of course there was. For example, the honourable Member said that this process, in the creation of jobs, was a fiasco. But also in the predominance given to the luxury real estate market, the government at the time did not realize that, for example, culture is a wealth that generates wealth. Were there deviations in this process? There was, yeah. But justice has a word there and must act accordingly, as has already been said. Madam Member, we live in a world without borders and there is no universal citizenship. What I want to ask you is this: do you not think that States have the right — and not just the right to do so — to define and fight for what is of national interest? And it is not in the view that it is in this case that it is in the national interest to try to capture these investments, how do the many countries that have already been mentioned? It does not believe that the Portuguese State has another range of criteria that can be used, such as humanitarian visas, visas for trafficked victims, family reunification, etc. Is that what you're talking about? These are the issues I put to you, Mrs Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u41	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u42	Madam President, Mrs Celeste Correia, I thank you for your question and acknowledge your commitment to these questions for a long time, but I almost returned the question, because I did not understand exactly what the PS position on the golden visas is. The honourable Member spoke to us here of national interest and finally condemned some aspects which she referred to regarding justice. But the question I leave you with is another: Mrs Celeste Correia, who has so many years of struggle in this area, does she think that we will give you the opportunity to have access to a guarantee of a residence permit to whom she has EUR 1 million or to whom she has EUR 500 000 to buy a house responds to the national interest? Do you think this guarantee responds to national interest? We don't think so. And in this sense, I am returning the question to you: what is the proposal of the PS? What, after all, is the reading of the PS regarding the golden visas? Tell the honourable Member that we disagree. No, in many circumstances, we do not agree—that is democracy. But in this respect, or I have misunderstood or I think that the position of the PS is, as many other times, closer to the position of the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u43	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u44	Madam President, this is the first speech I have been doing for a week, when I have had a lack of health, and I would like to thank the President and all colleagues for the expression of solidarity and for the desire for rapid improvements. Today, I am here again ready for combat, but there really are times when the body gives in and we have no possibility of controlling it. [[PS, PSD, CDS-PP and BE applause.]] Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs Members: We are here today to consider another amendment to the legal regime of entry, stay, departure and removal from the national territory. The founding matrix of this legal regime comes from 2007 — I believe it is always good at this moment to remind you of it. It was an initiative of a socialist government and this regime was also the initiative of the then Minister of State and Internal Administration, António Costa. This regime and its concern about the social inclusion of immigrants allowed Portugal to be internationally regarded as a country of good practices for the reception of immigrants. And, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I ask you again to consult the IPEX (InterParliamentary EU Information Exchange ) and to read again the reference that Portugal has many letters to give in the European Union and in the world,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and has been one of the best countries in welcoming, integration and, above all, in assuming the interculturality that the wealth of immigrants brings to our societies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u46	This founding matrix of 2007 has, fortunately, resisted security investments and often restrictive that Europe has imposed. This founding matrix also resisted, already in this legislature, the change made to the law of foreigners, when there was also an attempt to make a too restrictive transposition of the Return Directive. But I also want to stress here that it was the consensus and the dialogue that allowed us not to deviate from this matrix. And it is in this proposal that, today, Mr Vice-President-Minister has come to present to this House that we continue to resist this restrictive and secure drift, which - and I must say that, because at this time this must also be emphasized - given the current drift of the European Union, is even a good sign. Today, we are essentially examining a set of amendments to the system of granting visas for investment in the country. This is only part of the question of the legal regime which the law enshrines, but it is a very important part. In fact, in 2012 Portugal joined countries with special practices for hosting investors, creating a visa scheme associated with investment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are unable to understand that the regulation of the stay of foreigners is a social problem, but it is not only and only a social problem, will never be able to understand the meaning of the regime and the changes that are proposed and discussed in this House today. I understand well but disagreed about the position of the Left Block, she's not new. over the years, the Left Block has never supported any changes that were in the best sense, improving immigration law or foreign laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u48	This is the only sensible PS, that of Ana Catarina Mendonça!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u49	We are here today talking about the stay of people to whom we ask for something special, of people who are willing to help Portugal and of people who are willing to put their fortunes or possessions at the service of the Portuguese economy. And if they are people who want to do good and want to help us, then we must also treat them in a special way. And this does not affect the integration of immigrants who cannot contribute in this way but who must and deserve the same opportunities in their inclusion here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They're going to tell me, so you guys are going to tell me. Members to the left of the PS than those who are willing to contribute to the Portuguese economy are privileged—and will be-CL-o. But they are also fair answers to those who are willing to help us in our priorities. For this regime to be effective, in the interests of the country, it must be properly focused on our priorities, and this focus must of course be improved. Moreover, I would like to welcome here the openness expressed by Mr Vice-First Minister in his speech as regards the possibility of improving what the Socialist Party believes is still possible to improve in this law. in this initiative, there is concern about the improvement of the current regime, which we have already welcomed. A concern that demonstrates that even this government, when the need is pressing, realizes that it has to take a different path. In our view, however, there are also differences of perspective and even shortcomings of a reforming spirit, such as the fact that in some sectors there is no more attractive productive investment than real estate investment. I will explain as soon as possible, Madam President, forward. The PS wants Portugal to be governed with realism and sensitivity to improve the lives of those living and working here and we welcome this initiative in a critical but open spirit to which it can improve in the regime of foreigners, especially after the improvements it receives in the field of expertise. We expect them to be welcomed. these improvements allow me to highlight the need to make even more attractive investment in science, culture or urban rehabilitation, sectors that are absolutely vital for the economic development of the country and for the well-being of all those who live here. For this reason, I anticipate that, for us, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, to attract investment, the value in the area of culture should fall from €350,000 to €250 000, thus making the possibility of this investment more attractive. I would also like to say that, in the area of urban rehabilitation, it is worth thinking more about what we have to do. That is why, Madam President, allow me to use a little more time to explain something that seems important to me. The acquisition of old or located buildings in urban rehabilitation or urban rehabilitation areas amounting to €500 000 is a positive change but will be ineffective and will not be able to divert the investment of new buildings into urban rehabilitation. Therefore, our proposal is not to go to meet the typical consumer, and it can divert us from this typical consumer and thus do not prefer a new property but a real property that really needs this urban rehabilitation, thus reducing to 150 000 € the possibility of investment to rehabilitate buildings that even require rehabilitation. This rehabilitation is often confused. Before I finish, I must say to Mr Vice-First Minister that there are no conditional reflections on this matter at this bench. We are not against measures because they are yours, but we are available to work together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u50	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u51	I shall conclude by presenting the Socialist Party's proposal to set up a capitalisation fund for small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal. This is a sector that has serious problems. Anemia in investment in our economy today is a reality and perhaps this moment of immigration discussion for investment was an opportunity to create a capitalisation fund for small and medium-sized enterprises that can not only revitalize but also bring more employment and more economy. It was a long intervention to say that we are globally in agreement and here we leave three notes to discuss in space. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u52	Madam Member, I would like to express our satisfaction at this rapid return. As I had the opportunity to tell you, I saw where I was, how, at the time of your indisposition, all the differences went away. We'll call the next speaker. for the PSD, Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u53	Mr President, Mr Vice-First Minister, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I would begin by enhancing the wisdom of the intervention produced by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, perhaps with the exception of the last part, which is more controversial. It is a pity that the Socialist Party does not look at its example and does not have the same wisdom in other structural matters for the country to have that kind of balance in the interventions it offers here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We are facing three initiatives today: a government proposal and two left block bills. What changes with the government's proposal? First, the stakes change: in scientific research, in cultural production, in the recovery of national heritage and in the works of urban requalification. Secondly, it also changes the wager in the collection of talents, in that logic a little metaphorical that Portugal needs more than a million bricks, because it allows foreign citizens who have obtained a degree of master or doctor in Portugal to have residence permit for another year. Thirdly, it changes something that is very grateful to the Members who have been elected by the interior of the country, as is my case, who have been elected by the Guard District. This Government proposal shows a clear sign of support for foreign investment in low-density areas, reducing capital investment needs by 20 % and thus promoting territorial cohesion, which tells my person and my party a lot, which, in fact, has chosen it as a cause of national priority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u54	Finally, this Government proposal reinforces, as Mr Vice-President-Minister has already said, internal and external supervision, but also prior and after the issue of residence permits. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these circumscribed amendments, which are necessary in a programme which is also very sensible, are, in fact, part of our policy of economic diplomacy, which is crucial for the growth of the country and for the promotion of employment. As for the proposals of the Left Block, in particular the one which, more or less overwhelmingly, has eliminated the golden visas of the immigration law, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I do not believe that what is good for the country is bad for the Left Block. Honestly, I don't think so! And what is seen, more, less, in the arguments that you have here deduced, and which are from the explanatory statement, is more or less what I am going to explain. They use four arguments. The first is that this program comes from 'given arm' with acts of corruption and unjustified enrichment. This conclusion, however, is obviously a huge deformation: it confuses the virtuality of a programme with the low seriousness — at least not yet proved — of some who deal with the programme and who should set the example of this seriousness. But, as you know, a rotten apple does not affect the rest of the fruit. If there's accidents on the road, we're not going to propose that it end the cars, that it end the traffic on the road. If there are crimes of speculation in public service, we will not propose to end public officials. If there are crimes associated with the visasgold programme, what we have to do, and what the government is doing with what it proposes is strengthening supervision and improving and adapting this programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u55	They tested the examples well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u56	You may not like the golden visas, but mixing this concept with acts of corruption is, with all respect, a nonsense. Then comes the Left Block saying that there is an inequality between the immigrant citizen who is already here and, because he does not have a few thousand to invest, he suffers from bureaucracy and various difficulties in obtaining visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u57	And it's a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u58	Madam Member, not being totally a lie, it is necessary to treat differently what is different. We should ask you: between these immigrants who invest in the golden visa and the others who are already here, which are the ones who enrich the country the most? Do they do it the same way? Do they value him the same way? Do they create the same potential for the country? Therefore, different situations are treated in different ways; there are no immigrants of 1. a and immigrants of 2. a! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u59	That's what I said now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u60	Mr Peixoto (PSD — What is it, Mr President? Members, it is immigrants who offer the country different opportunities from other immigrants—it is as simple as that. Then it is said that the golden visa facilitates access to rights. It is not true, it is not accurate, because rights are not remembered to those who have no money. The procedure for obtaining residence permits is that it is different in one case and in the other. But even if it wasn't, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I do not know what the Left Block prefers: if people with money, work, self-sustainment capacity or people who do not have these attributes enter Portugal. I don't really know what you prefer. What I want to tell you is that the Left Block seems to fight wealth. I want to tell you that the PSD wants to fight poverty. It's a big difference. The PSD does not have any kind of aversion to wealth. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need all immigrants, labour immigrants and immigrants called capitalists, and, regardless of any conceptual and ideological ties and with more or less pragmatism or utilitarianism, the data are what they are and deny the possibility of the left block project being approved. The data have already been said and will be strengthened: there were 2203 residence permit visas, with EUR 1, 3 billion, in two years. Does the honourable Member know any measure in Portugal that, in so little time, had such a financial impact? I don't know. In 2013 the IMT revenue increased by EUR 5 million, although the sale of houses decreased by 20 %. Does this mean anything? It's associated with golden visas. According to AICEP ( Portugal's Foreign Investment and Trade Agency ), in the second and third quarters of 2014, visasgold made a huge contribution for tourism in Portugal to have an increase of 7, 3 % with the creation of 46,800 jobs. This may not tell you anything, but, for example, on the avenue of Freedom, they have opened several luxury shops (not particularly appreciated the term) which have created hundreds of qualified jobs, with knowledge in foreign languages, due to potential buyers foreign tourists; in the hotel, sleeping has increased 5, 1 % and urban rehabilitation in Lisbon has been positive. Is it true or not, Mrs Deputy, that the bank has recapitalised and now has greater availability to grant credit? Is it not true that they increased flight numbers and air routes? Is it not true that there are already children of investors studying in Portugal, paying their tips here, culturally enriching the country and with more and better links abroad?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u61	I would like to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u62	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that there are also children of investors born in Portugal because of their golden visas, thus contributing to reverse the numbers of the demographic recession. Madam President, Mrs Deputy, your proposal, to be approved, would put Portugal isolated, in an oasis, walking back, in the backwardness and, as you know, the way of the country and the revenue of success, at least for the PSD and for most Portuguese, is exactly the opposite recipe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u63	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who observe the times of the regime. Mr João Oliveira is still a member of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u64	Mr. João Oliveira ( PCP ). — Madam President, Mr Vice-First Minister, I still hope to get answers to the questions I asked at the beginning of the debate. But in order not to fail to express our opinion on the discussion we are discussing, I would like to say that, on the part of the CFP ; we have maintained our opposition to the existence of these vissgold mechanisms, because we believe that this option of the Government is unfair as an immigration policy, is a wrong option as an economic policy and is a worrying option in the area of justice. We believe that this is an unfair option in terms of immigration policy because it maintains a closed door policy for those who live only from their work and a golden visa open door policy for those who have money.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u66	Anyone who just wants to work ends up being convicted of illegality, who has EUR 1 million and doesn't need to have a residence permit, just spends one week a year in our country. Mr Vice-President-Minister, on the other hand, we believe that this is a wrong option in economic policy, because we need to overcome our external dependence at the economic level, we need no emphasis. We need economic policies with real economic impact on job creation and wealth creation in Portugal, particularly by betting on our productive sectors. Now, what we confirm is that this programme of golden visas, not only in the results it presents, but even in the assumptions in which it is based, points in the exact opposite direction. The confirmation of this, Mr Vice-First Minister, is in this element: in 1700 seen, only 3 are justified by the creation of jobs. We consider this to be a worrying option in the area of justice, because the creation of this mechanism of golden visas leads to conditions conducive to the occurrence of cases of corruption, money laundering or illicit prosecution. Mr Vice-First Minister, the problem is that the Government's bill does not remove any of these concerns, it does not contain any measures to avoid these concerns and the occurrence of these criminal phenomena—that is where I asked you the questions at the outset. There are no measures to prevent money laundering, no measures to prevent corruption, no measures to prevent fraud that foreign citizens have been victims of in businesses involving the allocation of these visas. Mr. Vice-First Minister, we could only disagree with the government option, but the problem is that we do more than that: we note that this bill does not respond to any of the problems that have been identified and, above all, that have been brought to the public square from that criminal process involving high office holders. This bill changes something so that, in essence, everything remains the same. There is no answer to the concerns concerning corruption, money laundering or illicit prosecution and there is no answer to the situations of fraud committed in the sale of property that foreign citizens have been victims of in those processes which have been disclosed and even publicly reported. More: the novelties of the bill itself do not rest us. With regard to scientific research, what we need is to stop the bleeding of human resources, particularly researchers, which is leaving the country. That is, we have to stop the bleeding of the scientific capacity installed in our country. In fact, we need to break with the external dependence that is registered, above all, on the scientific level. What we find in this bill, both in the field of culture and research, is that the government hopes that those who so far only wanted to invest in the purchase of buildings and in the transfer of capital will also make some investments in science and culture. Investments in science and culture are often beneficence facades that hide, unfortunately, less worthy activities. Let us hope that these problems can be overcome. Mr Vice-First Minister, what I am telling you does not reflect the opinion of the CFP, is the Banco de Portugal and the international institutions that say so. Investment, particularly in high-value goods, such as artistic or cultural goods, is one way of concealing the illicit origin of certain capitals. That is why there needs to be control mechanisms. Mr Vice-First Minister will agree that, by opening a door where good and bad can enter, there must at least be some control mechanism to see who enters, in order to avoid problems. In any case, none of this illustrates the final conclusion that we believe must be removed from this whole process. Instead of taking social and labour integration measures for immigrant workers and their families—unfortunately, many condemn illegality— instead of worrying, from an economic point of view, about setting priority in an economic policy that recovers our productive sectors and job creation in Portugal from the wealth created here, rather than seeking to carry out further mechanisms for combating economic and financial crime, the government has made an option that runs counter to all these objectives and therefore the CFP will continue to be unable to agree with this option by the Government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today there has been an excessive use of time, so I would ask them to observe more times. When the first speaker goes beyond time, the Bureau has no legitimacy to control the times of the next speakers. So we all have to have self-content. For an intervention, Mr Vice-First Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Oliveira, I would like to thank you very much. A little while ago, I was out of time, so I appreciate the time that has now been given. Mr. João Oliveira, I think you are being unfair when you say that surveillance measures are not incisive. It is clear that there is a permanent and regular monitoring of the procedures and decisions, with greater differentiation of the proposals for decision within the internal structure of the Foreign and Border Services, with conclusions given to 1. the Commission of Parliament reports made regularly and following up on the various proposals made in the report of the General Inspection of Internal Administration are strengthened monitoring mechanisms. The other thing concerning which I think Mr. João Oliveira is not paying attention is that the Government's bill explicitly mentions in Article 65 (3) ( d ). the, which can only make such capital transfers to entities which are regularly registered in the Banco de Portugal after a prior verification process. Therefore, when this requirement is required, it is required that the subject matter, which is of interest to all, be complied with in order to combat money laundering. Mr. João Oliveira, even more: it is also not fair to mention that by requiring in the gold visas concerning real estate the presentation of the real estate card if the candidate is giving authentic information, credible information that allows to compare the value of the acquisition with the value of taxation and property. With all honesty, I think that the more cameras the Communist Party governs another day it will be in favour of a regime similar to the Vissgolds, for the simple reason that it allows to collect revenue from foreign investors and a good part of it remains in the authorities. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It is quite important to be in competitive terms — I would say this both to the Communist Party and to the Left Block, although their positions are different. What was the result of closing the golden visa store? It is that the creation of wealth and the investment that is made in Portugal would be made in Spain. What do we, like Portuguese, have to win with that? The houses that ceased to sell in Portugal were sold in Spain and investments in scientific projects, or research projects, or in heritage recovery projects, or in urban rehabilitation projects that could be made here were made in Spain. [[PCP protests.]] It was, in fact, curious that the Portuguese regime had a period, as we all know, of some uncertainty. at that time, what was the regime that grew more immediately in parallel? The Spanish. Mr President, in all honesty I tell you that I am pragmatic. We live in an open economy, compete for investment, so either we attract it to Portugal or let us create wealth and jobs for other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u69	How to Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u70	Mr. João Oliveira, I would therefore not fail to give you my answer on this matter. If the CFP has more proposals to make in relation to control and writing matters it considers relevant, it is absolutely possible to do so in the specialty. I also wanted to leave a word to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, whom I greet. Madam Member, I am absolutely in favour of a principle of permanent evaluation of public policies and reserved for a few things the dogmas of faith. Therefore, I am absolutely available to improve, improve, correct, because I understand that this regime is important regardless of governments, since the global competition for investment attraction will remain. And I don't think any of us want our country to live again in autacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u71	Would you like to conclude, Vice-President-Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u72	I shall try to conclude, Madam President. Madam Member, we have listened carefully to the suggestions you have made and we will seek, in those — and there are several — which seem acceptable to us for discussion, a consensus. We are also available to improve the system. What we want is that Portugal has an instrument of foreign investment which pays its taxes here and which contributes to our economic growth. If you can do it in many activities that we need to have a more developed and more modern country, I have no doubt to go looking for the political effort needed to achieve it. I would just like to tell Mr Peixoto of the PSD — and I conclude, Madam President — that the competences in the field of thinking, reflecting and proposing a strategy for the dissemination of visasgold are also defined in the diploma. These competences are of the monitoring group, which brings together the various entities that, in culture, science, companies, internationalisation, have opinions and opinions to give. Therefore, it is not, as it is said, to delegate the promotion to the autonomous power. Each territory knows how to present its value proposition, but as an instrument of the country obviously has to be an integrated policy. Madam President, thank you for your tolerance, which was a lot. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u73	This concludes the debate on the first item on the agenda. I would like to congratulate Mr Vice-First Minister, Mr Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Andriessen and others. Secretary of State. We move on to the second item on the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 767 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the scheme of incompatibilities and impediments applicable to local electors and extends its scope to holders of inter-municipal bodies and specific purpose associations ( BE ), 768 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members, making it compulsory for Members to be exclusive to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 806 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of Deputies and the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( PCP ) and 808 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the incompatibilities of policy holders and high public positions ( PS ). To present the two Bills of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, there is, not only in our country, but in several Western societies, a huge suspicion that arises in our society. It is the world of business and politics that lives by redefining the public interests of private interests and is that rotating door in which people, but also interests, are always being played by the private to the public and the public to the private and in which people always feel that their interests, public interests, are being harmed in favor of any private interests. We look at the tentacles of the large economic groups and we understand well what we are talking about. The case of Banco Espírito Santo is one, but it is a paradigmatic case, of those who were installed in our society, with networks of interests throughout it, and in which we see that, many times, they lived above all of us, above public interests. That is why we have a renewed commitment to transparency, but also to the word of compromise between those who hold a public office and those who voted in it, who placed their trust in the Member of Parliament, in the Member of Parliament, in the one who legitimately hopes to represent it. The Left Block therefore takes the necessary step, the step to propose to this House of the Republic which, once and for all, takes forward the exclusivity regime of Members and Members as a regime in force for all, without exception. We cannot have any more examples of administrators, consultants, managers, or lawyers who, in the morning, are in any office to debate and defend private interests and who, in the afternoon, are in the Assembly of the Republic know well how to defend which interests,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u75	But what is that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u76	... it is well known whether to defend private interests, whether to defend the interests of those who voted in them and who expected some confidence from them. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] We do not ask for anything else than what is done in France or Spain: that Members should be exclusive! I repeat: we only ask for what is done in Spain and what is done in France! That is the requirement of democracy! I am reading here a text from a well-known citizen of the benches on the right, Bagão Félix, who says on this subject: « The exclusiveness of a Member should not be an option, it should be an imperative. We are in the presence of a sovereign body which, directly and democratically, represents the popular will. Its elected members should therefore express the unequivocal nature of the mandate and not be conditioned, directly or indirectly, by interests that may affect the general interest and the common good. We are faced with a delicate matter of state, for which it is not only worth remediating, rather than preventing all kinds of conflicts of interest, either by action or by omission. » Now, this is what we are proposing here. But we propose that this obligation should also be extended to the local electorate, on a permanent and full-time basis. It is a demand for democracy! We do not want any suspicion yet in force and exclusivity is guaranteed zero tolerance to this promiscuity of interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u77	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The promiscuity between political power and economic power is far from being a recent problem in our country and is in view of all the Portuguese who are getting worse. This has shown that the CFP has repeatedly presented legislative initiatives to combat this problem affecting Portuguese democracy. The proposals presented by the CFP were intended to make it difficult for the economic power to usurp the role of political power and to hinder less transparent relations. If it is true that the problems of promiscuity between the economic power and the political power that exists in the Assembly of the Republic, but also in the high offices of the State, cannot be eliminated with a simple amendment to the law, it is also true that it is urgent to change the law to eliminate obvious relationships of promiscuity that exist today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u80	However, PSD, CDS and PS have taken a boycott position and have successively voted against the solutions presented by the PCP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the new developments, such as the cases of submarines, BPN and BES, rather than justify, reinforce the need for a change to the law. We want today — the date on which we represent a bill — to reaffirm that the worst, the more insufficient the law there will be for the situation of promiscuity to exist, the more space there is for the promotion of corruption and the overlap of economic interests of half a dozen economic groups to the interests of the Portuguese generality. For this reason, the CFP represents this bill, which prevents many of the promiscuities we have checked today. With the solutions presented by the CFP, it is no longer possible for a holder of a political office, such as a member of the Assembly of the Republic, to do, through the lawyers' societies or through the societies managing social participations, which is now prevented from doing individually. Today, there is a kind of offshore of incompatibilities and impediments. If the facts are practised by a lawyer company in which a Member participates or by an SGPS, then nothing is prevented, no impediments or incompatibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u82	For example: a Member is prevented from selling a paper resam to the Assembly of the Republic if he has a bookstore, and very well! But if, through a society of lawyers or an SGPS, that same Member participates in a business of large millions of euros with the State, there is nothing in the Statute of Deputies, with the interpretation that PS, PSD and CDS were doing, that would prevent it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u84	Another aspect that we have changed in the legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments for holders of political and high public positions is to extend from three to five years the period for preventing the exercise of private activities, within the framework of undertakings or other entities, with whom he had contact or with which he had to deal in the exercise of his public functions. Finally, among other amendments, we believe that the criterion of only applying the rules of incompatibilities if a Member holds more than 10 % of the commercial society concerned is insufficient, and therefore we propose that, regardless of social participation, if it is relevant, then the Statute of Members should apply. With this bill, the CFP once again contributes to the separation, as the Constitution commands, of the political power of economic power. Once again, we will see, at the vote, who stands on the side of the promiscuity, the opacity and the swampy terrain of the confusion of interests and who, like the PCP, struggles to put an end to the promiscuity that the whole country sees. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u85	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that brings us here today is, in a way, of course, relevant and the improvement of the quality of the rules governing the transparency of the activities of the holders of political positions, which define those which must be the spheres of protection of the mandate is obviously a matter on the agenda. Even last week, in a similar theme, the Socialist Party and other parliamentary groups had already had the opportunity to present initiatives to improve the quality of the legislation we have. Therefore, I do not think that it is correct or even appropriate, or even productive for this debate, to put the question in the terms in which it is put, as if there were absolute purity and a totally unpopular character of some Members. Members sitting in this House, while the others are a facinors,... [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u87	... are people absolutely incapable of presenting structured and responsible solutions. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] So we focus on what is essential: how do we improve the quality of democracy? How do we make citizens believe at a time when they often actually discredit their leaders and their representatives? How are we going to take this path without going through demagogy, but also without recognizing that the problem exists and that must be improved? The Socialist Party has a project that essentially sets out five fundamental objectives with regard to incompatibilities and impediments. First of all, in some respects, it is indeed necessary to extend the scope of those who are covered by the notion of high public office, noting the need to include consultants and those who participate, as representatives of the State, in structural negotiations for the functioning of the economy. In fact, what we have today is not enough. The scope of the scheme should be extended. The period of disgust that has been classified and enshrined in the law since 1993 in some cases does not go as far as it should, because we still have a law dated and marked for a moment when, essentially, the concerns revolved around the privatisation process. It does not mean that this aspect is no longer relevant today and that is why we do not change the law. But, in fact, we have extended and increased the period of disgust also for the performance of functions in any entity that has directly or indirectly benefited from any kind of financial support that is not entitled to a competitive procedure. On the other hand, we must also extend to the external plane what has already been in force internally and look at those situations in which someone has had to intervene in proceedings with international organisations, for example, and which, of course, can be put into a situation of potential conflict of interest after the termination of duties. That is why we took exactly the regime we had and extended it to other areas where the question begins to arise. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u88	Mr President, with regard to an aspect linking this project to the project presented last week, in terms of transparency, I think it is good time to make the register of interests in the municipalities compulsory, and in fact, to recognise that there is also a way to go about increasing transparency and, therefore, the optional regime, in the Socialist Party's proposal, becomes a mandatory regime for all municipalities in the country. Finally, with regard to the Statute of Members, continuing to be clear in the exercise of the mandate regime, so that it does not remain in the availability of parliamentary groups, so that it does not remain in the availability of considerations of personal or partisan interest of the incumbents of office, in fact, we must be clear that we must tighten the mesh in the rules allowing the replacement of the Members. Members, as in the past, concerning the causes that may lead to the suspension of the mandate. Therefore, we have changed the rules in this area and we have also extended some of the incompatibilities to be applied to the exercise of professions, in particular one that is very above the discussion, which is the activity of lawyer, but recognizing the cases where the impediment is justified, in particular cases where there may be the possibility to fight against or in favour of the State and other public legal persons and in any court. This is what we present. Of course, it is effective and will have the responsibility to offer better, more transparent and clearer solutions for citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u89	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are facing a series of legislative initiatives that seek to introduce new rules in the functioning of the political system. In conclusion, it could be said that it is intended to creatify democratic life, which is intended to make it more transparent, to assign it more stringent, but also to ensure a real and effective separation between political power and economic power, in addition to meeting our Constitution, which elects the subordination of economic power to political power, as a fundamental principle of economic organization. They are, therefore, necessary measures, especially at a time when a widespread feeling among the Portuguese is increasingly perceived in a certain subordination of political power to economic power, and where political decisions are often cloudy, because they are not transparent and because the public interest was simply not considered. However, the public interest must be the determining factor, it must be the sole basis of any political decision. And if we really want to ensure the presence of public interest in political decisions, there can be no holders of political positions, who, at the same time as they exercise their mandate, occupy part of their time working for economic and financial groups, which are often also addressed to those decisions. The voters vote for the electors to devote themselves to public affairs—which they are dealing with, to take care of the public interest! — do not vote for the electorate, in the exercise of its mandate, to take care of private interests. That is why, in this effort to credibility democracy and to ensure the subordination of economic power to political power — an effort which, moreover, must call upon us all — is of decisive importance, not only the strengthening and extension of the incompatibilities of the holders of political positions and high public positions, but also the clarification of the current rules of the Statute of Members, which have come to allow truly strange situations to our democracy, which is absolutely transparent. It is recurrent, for example, to watch the appointment of public managers who then go from arms and baggage to private companies, often competitors of companies with public capital, for which they were initially appointed by the Government. These are situations that compromise the defence of the public interest and even mortgage our democracy. And that is what we need to oppose and caution at the legislative level. That is why the Greens understand that this House of the Republic cannot remain indifferent, pretending that nothing is happening. This House has an obligation to act in the sense and improve the rules currently in force in order to credible our democracy, to ensure the defence of the public interest and to prevent political power from confusing itself with interest and economic power. The Greens will do their part in this fight, making it possible for the proposals under discussion. Let us hope that the other parliamentary groups, including the majority seats, will also join in this fight that everyone must mobilize.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u92	For an intervention, Mr. João Lobo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I shall refer only briefly to the interventions that have been produced here, calling into question the dignity of decent, honest, serious professionals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I am directly referring to lawyers who, if you and Mr. Members do not know, they have duties with the community before the political duties, they have an obligation not to interfere or not to have any influence on the policy decisions. Therefore, before they arrive at the Assembly, they have these primary duties for the community. Do not want the gentlemen, at the expense of the seriousness of the others who are present here—and many are here! — to take political advantage of the credibility of a political order which deserves to be credible, but with a fight against forms, which do not produce in a serious and loyal manner, but not at the expense of liberal professionals, especially lawyers. Let's talk about it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, how is it that someone in individual practice, in the exercise of his liberal profession — and I report to the lawyers, being here for four years, can survive by keeping the office and losing the clientele.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u94	What about the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u95	Explain to you what crime is this one for you to want to eradicate the professionals of this legislative body. This is admissible, sir. Ladies and gentlemen? Is what you want ethically acceptable? That is not what you want, of course! As the Left Block did not consider that the exercise of trade or industry activities within the framework of its authority is forbidden to the members of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u96	Isn't this a PS speech? Is it a new PSD position?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u97	I cannot accept that those who voluntarily give their best to the community are prohibited from exercising a fundamental right, which is the right to economic freedom. This is unacceptable, as it is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen. Members, may the Left Block tell us, that we are here, that politics and democracy cannot be hostage to the conflicts of interests of Members and Members who devote part of their day to private interests and the other half to making legislation to satisfy these same interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u98	Are you in stay?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is true, say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u100	Report, raise your finger!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u101	Tell me who you are! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Because they don't! And tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u102	And we say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the project which aims to make the exclusivity regime of Members compulsory cannot deserve the support of the PSD bench because, and in brief synthesis, part of demonstrated axiomas, removed from the praxis that reaches the dignitaries of those who deliver the best of themselves to the Republic and democracy. It is not compatible with an extended material concept of democracy, and there is no democracy outside the Constitution and no will against it can prevail. It does not comply with the duty of participatory democratic deepening and does not cover the holders of social organisations with political functions. It will generate levels of dependence and partisan functioning of Members, raising reservations about their independence. It is not consistent with the observance of the democratic principle, returning the breathing of Community life to the oscillations of party wills, eliminating fundamentally direct subjects of political life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u104	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. Nor is it consistent with the right of access to the exercise of political and representational positions understood of its negative dimension, prohibiting discrimination in equal access and in the sense that no one can be harmed in his professional career and within the limits of the exercise of that right. This is a set of projects that the bench I represent cannot accept. The PSD bench will vote against the proposals under consideration and, at its own discretion, it is available to discuss with the Socialist Party the ideas and proposals that underpin its draft law. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u106	For an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a brief way, I would like to say that this matter has, from our point of view, and soon opens it up, a matter of principle and philosophy. From a matter of principle and philosophy, we are by rigour, transparency and by a regime of serious incompatibilities. Stay put. The second point I want to stress is that we are not, we have never been, we will never be, and we will not be in this debate in favour of a regime that elects Members without profession, without credibility, without independence, without experience of life to be here merely officials of Parliament or officials of their own parties. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is not, it has never been, nor will it ever be our point of view. Moreover, some of the projects that are presented here are strange, excluding, Mrs Cecília Honorio, this thing of radical morality of the extreme left, always seeking to build a new man. I'm asking the ladies. Members of the Left Block how it is possible, at the same time, to present here a project that says, on the one hand, that the mandate of the Member is exclusive, that is, he is elected and he is here four years to be a Member, and at the same time they want the turnover of the Members. What does that have to do with anything? Mr Pedro Filipe Soares goes to the point of Article 5. that of your project, they say that the mandate of a Member is exclusive, i.e., he was elected and is only a Member, but that he can suspend the mandate for relevant professional reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u108	Don't lose the bond, do you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u109	But what's a professional reason, if he's exclusive? Does it make any sense? It is a fact made according to the Left Block, the interests of the Left Block and a bench that, fortunately, I say, goes down. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Greater moralism still heard from the Portuguese Communist Party. Nothing that surprises us. With irony, I would say even that I find it strange that the CFP is very concerned about the possibility of a Member to sponsor or perform functions at the service of a foreign state. If the Members could not have links to a foreign state, there was no CFP for many years, because for years they did nothing more if they did not serve a foreign empire which, fortunately, has also disappeared. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests, having Mr. Jorge Machado beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]] Mr. Jorge Machado, in addition to trying to ruin the state's heritage by beating this bench, speaks a lot of promiscuity and promiscuity relations. But does this promiscuity begin and end when? [[PCP protests.]] Does this promiscuity apply to who is an official of the party or only to who works for another entity? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Does this promiscuity apply only to those who are associated with a professional or business association or to those who in Parliament serve only the interests of the unions? [[Now!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u110	It is worth knowing, because we want a free Parliament, of free people, we do not want it to be like in Pyongyang, where the Members are all chosen by the party's leadership, are removed by the leadership of the party and if the leadership of the party does not like them are sent home and others come, chosen finger by the party's direction. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] With regard to the Socialist Party bill, and because I have my time running out, I meant, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, that we do not fully follow your project. There are, however, aspects that deserve consideration, such as those relating to the register of interests itself, its enlargement, its thinking, to what extent some of the incompatibilities go. We will therefore consider, together with the Socialist Party, the possibility of having a discussion on this matter, because even if we do not agree with everything, there are issues and matters that seem relevant to us. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u111	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u112	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u113	Mr. President, it is to defend the honor and consideration of the bench. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u114	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u115	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, used several expressions with which he intended to offend this bench. Most of them I will not give an answer, because I understand that, in despair, in the discussion of political options, you have no other kind of argument. I would, however, like to defend the honour and consideration of the bench, because there is one argument that you have used in your speech which clearly obliges us to use the floor for this purpose. I hope it was out of ignorance that you used the arguments used by fascism by 1974 to attack the communists. I hope it was out of ignorance that he used the arguments used in this Chamber in the National Assembly to accuse communists of defending a foreign empire. I hope it was out of ignorance, because if it was not out of ignorance, Mr Telmo Correia, it is much more serious. If Mr Telmo Correia consciously wanted to use the same arguments that the fascist State used to combat the communists politically, to arrest, torture and murder, because it was said at the time that they were defenders of a foreign empire, he consciously used all these arguments and not out of ignorance, then Mr Telmo Correia, it is his speech that does not take place in this House, because this is the House of Democracy, for which many communists have given their lives, sacrificed their freedom, including by paying the highest sacrifice that can be paid for the Member to express himself today free as a Member. I hope that you will take advantage of the opportunity that you will now have in response to this defense of the honor and consideration of the bench to say that this was not your intention, because you have used these arguments consciously he will have far more consequences to withdraw. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u116	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u117	Mr President, I begin by saying that I understood Mr. João Oliveira's aggression, but I did not understand—but I would like to know, for my tranquillity—what is the threat. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] What's the threat? I just want to know what the threat is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u118	It is not possible to carry out your mandate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u119	You want to take me out of here to put me where? You want to put me in a gulag? I hope not. Sir, let's see what I said. Are you party officials or aren't you? Is the party paying the salaries and part of the Members' salaries or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u120	I don't answer those nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u121	Does the party choose who is freely a Member and run with them freely or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u122	He's desperate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u123	Do the members of the party often serve the interests of the unions or do they not serve? All this is true, but the essential question is, Mr President, the question of the Soviet Union or the admiration of North Korea. And there, Mr President, I keep what I said: I was born in democracy and am a democrat.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u124	Those were the arguments of fascism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u125	Would you like to hear it, Mr. Deputies? The first thing we learn in democracy is to listen to others and not always to shout when others are talking! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] If the gentlemen. Members say Democrats, listen to the others! What I want to tell you, Mr President, is that I respect the struggle of the Portuguese Communist Party, but I stress that throughout its history it has always been a subservient to Moscow, subservient to the interests of Moscow, even when much of the European communists condemned the invasion of Prague, the entry into Czechoslovakia, the changes, the regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u126	He continues to use fascism arguments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u127	The Portuguese communists were always subservient and that is why your great reference, Alvaro Cunhal, was a Soviet hero.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u128	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u129	These are arguments of fascism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u130	They are not arguments of fascism, Mr Deputies, they are arguments of democracy, because it was the Democrats who defeated Soviet communism, it was not the fascists! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Who defeated Soviet communism were the Democrats, not the fascists! It was Churchill, it was De Gaulle, it was many Democrats. These were the ones who won the greatest tyranny and the greatest oppression of the past century: Soviet communism, which you continue to worship. I tell you, as a Democrat, as a free man and as a Member of this House, that I do not accept fascism or communism, because they are brothers and very alike. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u131	Mr Machado has the floor for an intervention, which will have to be quick and compact, because he has very little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is interesting that, in a debate where we are talking about the promiscuity between political power and economic power, in which we are talking about transparency, of serious importance in the exercise of functions, the interventions of the PSD and the CDS-PP are completely surreal. They're going to find China, Korea, the Soviet Union, because they don't want to discuss the bottom line. [[PCP applause.]] And they were deeply upset because the CFP has reported here that there are serious problems of promiscuity between economic power and political power, and that is a reality that all Portuguese see. So, Mr. João Lobo, this is not a serious problem with the exercise of legal duties, it is a serious problem with the exercise of the mandate of the Member State. We have already had Members who, as lawyers, individually, could not participate in State business, but participated, as members integrated in lawyers' societies, in business with the State, Mr. To ignore that is to ignore reality. The solution presented and discussed by the CFP, which irritates both the PSD and the CDS-PP, is that Members cannot intervene in business with the State, either individually or in companies of lawyers, be integrated into companies of participations and social management. And excuse yourself to get angry. at least in all the irritation it is clear what is the problem of these two sides in this matter. More: we've extended the period of disgust. But we changed the rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u133	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u134	I'm done now, Mr. President. We have presented a set of solutions that solve or aim to point to the solution of a concrete problem that the Portuguese feel. It is that there is a promiscuity between political power and economic power and the Constitution does not allow, the people do not allow and democracy does not allow that reality. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u135	The Bureau noted Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' appointment for an intervention. It still has 13 seconds. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u136	Mr President, with the same tolerance that has also been used for other Members, I would like to say first of all to the CDS bench that there is some confusion in this debate. I know you press the CDS when we speak in Bagão Félix, consciousness is half trembling there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u137	What do I have to do with the Félix Bag? I don't agree with anything he says!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u138	But it is true that there is a lot of confusion. I'll simplify it. What is exclusivity of functions? It is that any Member or Member, sitting in these seats, has a commitment to have all his or her availability only and only for the defence of the public interest. This is what happens in Spain, this is what happens in France, and I do not believe it is actually for the party. More: do not cease the bond, suspend it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u139	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u140	If you had read not our project, but the law, you'd see that's exactly what happens. The PSD said: "Well, there are no cases..." But, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, are you now using the ostrich tactics in this matter? What we do not know are cases of Members who, as such, cohabited in their offices with business of millions and maintained their duties, as is the case with José Luís Arnaut and others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u141	That's already in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u142	They do not use the ostrich tactics, because the people do not understand. The people demand more commitment, which is exactly what we bring — more commitment to democracy. That is our proposal, we will see which side is the majority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u143	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves was also involved in an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u144	They're stealing a rule from the Leaders' Conference!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u145	Mr President, a parliamentary plaice is being invoked that the parliamentary group responsible for the agenda would be the last to use the floor. This is a parliamentary practice that we believe does not exist, but obviously I do not want to question it because I had no knowledge of it. Registrations take place within the framework of time. Therefore, if a parliamentary group has time to react to an intervention and having another parliamentary group finished, there is no other way of articulating. however, underlining that I do not want to call into question parliamentary loyalty, I will not do the intervention I intended to make until the matter is clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u146	But BE has done the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is closed. We will move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 811 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Prevents the cultivation, marketing and deliberate release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens ), 784 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms ( BE) and 805 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — regulates the cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( CFP ) in conjunction with draft resolution No 1293 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government guidelines relating to the process of transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/18 / EC as regards the possibility of Member States limiting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ) in their territory ( PS ). For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens felt it was time to bring back a discussion on genetically modified organisms to the Assembly of the Republic. For this reason, the Greens are presenting a bill to Parliament that rightly proposes to prevent the cultivation, marketing and deliberate release of transgenics. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting this proposal, taking into account certain conditions. Firstly, that the cultivation of transgenics is not done in a closed field or in a laboratory, it is done in an open field, and the question of contamination is, of course, an issue that cannot be completely prevented. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that there is still scientific controversy about this matter, knowing that the safety of the transgenics is not proven. We also know that the citizens of the different states of the European Union, through several studies already carried out, tend to reject the transgenics in mass. On the other hand, multinationals also want to gain ground in the Member States of the European Union to increase their business, to produce their profits, and the European Union has given in to the appetites of these multinationals. For example, the issue of labelling which, for us, is quite evident when it was determined, for example, that products containing less than 0, 9 % of transgenics do not have an obligation to provide information on the basis of labelling to consumers. This is absolutely unacceptable. But while some Member States of the European Union banned the cultivation of transgenics in their geographical area, such as Germany, France, Poland and other countries, Portugal found, by means of various parliamentary majority of the PSD, CDS and PS, that in the European Union it was decided and that we here accepted decisions on the subject of transgenics. It happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the European Union it has now been determined that this issue of the decision on the cultivation of transgenics goes to the 'competence' (between aspas) of the Member States. From now on, it is the Member States that decide whether or not to allow cultivation in their geographical area. Therefore, there is an amendment, a novelty that goes against one of the strong arguments that the various parliamentary majority used in this House. The Greens therefore understand that it is time to re-examine the issue with this new reality, calling on the parliamentary groups to approve the project presented by the Greens so that we can discuss it in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u149	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall refer to the intervention of the Left Block last week on this issue of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and the new European reality, which has already been mentioned here. within the framework of the European Union, there may be acceptance by the agency and the environmental authority, but the authorisation for the cultivation or marketing of GMOs is the responsibility of each Member State. in this respect, the European Union finally washed its hands, until the overwhelming majority of the Member States of the European Union did not want the marketing and cultivation of GMOs of transgenics. Why? Because the pressures of public opinion are very strong about not being guaranteed the precautionary principle for the maintenance of biodiversity and the consequences that this may have on public health. Therefore, in only five Member States there is this reality of GMOs, of which Portugal. Interestingly, in this debate the right has meant not to speak, and it is surprising that on the day following this intervention, I find a resolution of the Council of Ministers which has already defined the legislation for GMOs in Portugal, which I believe is now in Bethlehem for promulgation. So I have a request to make this very important request to the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS : tell us what the government has approved on GMOs. Several initiatives from opposition parliamentary groups are under discussion today, but we would like to know what the position of the parties that support the government is, and what broad lines the Government has approved in the Council of Ministers, which could enrich our debate. The circumstance is to call for the precautionary principle to be respected in Portugal. Is that what you're saying? Members of the majority, who say they are going to authorize the maintenance of transgenic maize in Portugal or, if so, to open the door to another type of genetically modified organisms, have guarantees, from a scientific point of view, that the precautionary principle is being fulfilled? Do you have guarantees that, from an economic point of view, there is any value in the planting of transgenic maize? Do you have a reasoned opinion—that it is not that of those working with Monsanto or other multinationals of the agrochemical industry—that this reality of the transgenics can and should be cultivated and marketed in Portugal? We believe not, but the debate will be this. in our opinion, the debate should not be as it has been so far, but on trying to observe the principle of caution, a moratorium or a suspension or prohibition and then trying to draw some conclusions, make an assessment... But no, it is grown because, yes, there is no argument, there is no scientific basis, there is no proof and, there is no proof, it must act in favour of public health and the ecosystem and not on the contrary. So this has been the debate. The Left Block, already in 2000, was able to pass a bill that defended biodiversity and approved the precautionary principle, which was immediately ignored by all governments. And that's where we want to go back. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u151	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The shift from the responsibility of decisions on the cultivation of genetically modified organisms from the European Union to the Member States has again brought the question of GMOs to the agenda. In view of this possibility, at least two ministers have already expressed their intention not to impose limitations. The positive impacts of scientific and technological development in the field of biotechnology can only be overcome by a careful application of the precautionary principle, in particular the agricultural sector, for which there is increasing pressure for the introduction of genetically modified organisms. The dominant agriculture in Portugal is that of small and medium sized family farms. Business and large-scale farms, focusing on intensive and mass productions — which have been consolidating their position by action of the current government — are also more likely to seek maximum profit through minimum ecological protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u154	National agriculture has only to gain from the defence and promotion of the quality of the national biological product of regional and traditional species, instead of the standardization of mass production and intensively. The current legislation holds the producer of conventional or biological agriculture responsible for taking precautions that limit the contamination of his holdings by the neighboring transgenics, whose producers are little more than responsible for the notification of the adjacent producers. There are already cases in the world of farmers who have been prosecuted for having patented varieties, which have arrived at their holdings by cross-pollination. Portugal will have no advantage in opting for transgenic cultivation. The State must ensure the productive capacity of Portuguese farmers in general by conditions guaranteeing their decent incomes and living conditions, providing Portuguese with both healthy and quality agri-food production. instead, it copies solutions that call into question conventional production modes and that only serve the interests of some large producers and agribusiness. The current legislation on areas free of genetically modified organisms effectively inhibits the declaration as a free zone by assigning supremacy to the right to grow transgenics on the right not to cultivate them. Under current legislation, it is sufficient for any agricultural owner in a given region to attempt to grow genetically modified organisms so that declarations from the free zone cease to take effect. With this draft law, the CFP proposes that conventional and/or biological agriculture be the rule and that the whole country be considered a zone free of transgenics, referring the cultivation of genetically modified organisms to the scope of the exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u156	Today, in the name of the precautionary principle, we accept the exception for scientific research or experimentation. Tomorrow, in the face of the development of science and technology, the Portuguese will know what is best for agriculture and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u157	You now have the floor, for one speech, Mr Miguel Freitas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Genetically modified organisms exceed the agricultural issue. It is an environmental issue, but very much a question of society. What is true is that European society, as a whole, has always had a sense of caution regarding genetically modified organisms. in the European bodies, both in the Council and in the European Parliament, it has been so. What is true is that only one GMO exists and is cultivated today in Europe — maize. So what we are really dealing with is this: only one GMO is cultivated at European level today. Also in Portugal, the meaning has been that of prudence. Transposition that was the directive in 2003, in 2005 the Government of the Socialist Party tightened what were the criteria of the precautionary principle with clear principles of protection both of conventional cultures and of biological cultures. Therefore, it is on the basis of this legislation of 2005 that we can say that at the moment the question of genetically modified organisms in Portugal is a matter contained, i.e., we have seen over the years that there is no expansion as expected of genetically modified organisms. In view of this, it is true that there is now a new element, which is a directive which is already adopted at second reading but is not yet adopted at European level — it is still in the process of collecting signatures, but the fact is that we know the substance of this directive — that what you have done has not left the Member States with authorisation for cultivation, but rather the prerogative to limit or prohibit within their territories. The authorisation remains within the European framework, what Member States can do is limit or prohibit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u160	What does the PS understand about this matter? First, we have 10 years of GMO in Portugal and what we need is an evaluation of what was the impact of GMOs in the country. Secondly, we understand that this is a matter that needs to be evaluated, but also monitored and inspected. And the best scrutiny is that, from now on, any law that is made in the sense of the limitation or prohibition of GMOs in Portugal is the law of the Assembly of the Republic. This is a question of society and not an agricultural or exclusively environmental issue, the best place to find consensus at national level is the Assembly of the Republic. Thirdly, we believe that there is a question of information, transparency and therefore there needs to be a permanent database in the Ministry of Agriculture which can be consulted by all citizens on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u161	So, isn't there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u162	And finally, we believe that consumer information must be strengthened. There is also a resolution by the Greens Ecological Party, adopted in this Parliament of the Republic, on the issue of the labelling of GMOs that we would like to see shift from the role of the legislative process. This is once again the sense of the Socialist Party, the sense of prudence on the issue of genetically modified organisms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u163	I now give the floor to Mr Ulisses Pereira for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the proposers of the four initiatives under discussion today on the existence and cultivation of genetically modified organisms in Portugal. This is a subject which, not being new in discussion in this plenary session, has never had a wider debate, without taboos and associated prejudices. The PSD has defended this extended reflection, because it considers that uncertainty of what is at stake deserves more than pre-defined ideas against, or in favor. In view of the adoption of a new European Union directive where it will be possible for the Member State to limit or prohibit the cultivation of GMOs which have been authorised at the level of the European Union — which has not happened so far — we believe that Parliament would deserve more than dogmatics, but legitimate, draft laws submitted by the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens. We were expecting more.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u165	We also expected more from the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u166	in the case of the PCP, the cultivation of GMOs is prohibited, providing for exceptions, but not defining that exception regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u167	So, what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u168	... which could lead to the ad hoc approval of areas for the cultivation of transgenics, without homogeneous and integrated decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u169	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u170	The case of the Left Block and the Green Block is more radical and with a dubious legal basis. In addition to the prohibition of cultivation, the Left Block has proposed the prohibition of imports and marketing of all GMO products. Such an impediment would greatly reduce the supply of food to Portuguese consumers. For example, national consumers would no longer have access to a large number of products where soybeans are present, in whole or in part. in the PSD, we cannot follow these fundamentalist proposals and without adaptation to the reality in which we are inserted. in PSD, we were never pro-transgenic. We believe in the evolution of science and that innovation is essential to the economic development of agriculture, whose most noble function is to feed a world population of 7 billion people. However, we never advocate an uncontrolled introduction of these organisms into agricultural production, nor have we ever used arguments to extend their introduction to Portugal. We always defend the principle of caution, because, even within the scientific community, there is no certainty and theories evolve with the deepening of studies on genetics and genetic modifications. Mrs. Members, as regards the recommendations of the Socialist Party, we agree with the principle of some of them, although others seem redundant or even unnecessary. To recommend that sufficient information be made available to consumers already in force in various Community regulations, national legislation and, as already mentioned, by a resolution adopted in this House. in the same way that an external assessment of the legislation in force should be carried out, but by internal services. We have seen this evolution in the draft resolution of the Socialist Party and follow it. We also welcome further scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic in decisions to limit or prohibit crops of genetically modified varieties. In short, the PSD maintains a cautious position regarding the cultivation of GMOs, advocates an assessment of the experience of almost 10 years of transgenic maize cultivation in the national territory, so that future decisions are based on scientific and empirical facts, we argue that the principle of caution is always ensured, without denying the evolution of scientific and technological knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u172	Therefore, we do not follow the arguments of the left-wing parties and we resonate in moderate positions, defending the common interest of our rural world. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u173	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for the fourth time, at least in the last 10 years, we have discussed in this Parliament the question of genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u175	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u176	And then, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, for the fourth time I tell you that, unlike you, I do not have a fundamentalist position, I have a tolerant position, a position in favour of Portuguese agriculture and a democratic position of coexistence of the different types of agriculture: the biological, the traditional and the one that can cultivate GMO. In fact, this has been said since 2005 either by the CDS or by myself. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we have no different position than we have always had. We do not share your position because we cannot understand that it can be defined, forbid a Portuguese farmer from doing what a Spanish, French, German or Polish farmer can do, thus competing with what is the agricultural activity of our Portuguese farmers. I defend the interests of Portugal and Portuguese, first of all. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u177	in Germany, there is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u178	Mr Luís Fazenda, the precautionary principle must always be present in the cultivation of transgenics—a question which I would like to make very clear is that the safety rules must be, and are -in the Portuguese case, clear, but can be further clarified with regard to the safety of the use of transgenics—I repeat, the precautionary principle must always be present in the cultivation of transgenics, as it could not fail to be, because they are Community rules, the principle of accountability for both producer entities and farmers in the use of transgenics must also be present, but we cannot prevent the farmer from making use of GMOs by respecting these principles. As has already been well mentioned not by anyone from the coalition, but by the Socialist Party, the use of GMOs in Portugal and Europe is exclusively maize. It does not apply to potatoes or soybeans, where it already occurs in other continents with genetically modified organisms, precisely because of the precautionary principle. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot follow the ban on the cultivation of a product that we then import for consumption. That would be absolutely unfair to our agriculture. Allow me two or three notes on the Socialist Party's proposal. It is a different proposal, clearly because, as Mr Freitas says, what is at stake here with the new European Union orientation is not the authorisation for the introduction of transgenics but its prohibition, which is determined by the Member States. Member States may prohibit their cultivation in certain circumstances, including for environmental and health reasons, but also for reasons related to land use. Now a Member State can do so. But I would like to tell Mr Freitas and, in general, the Socialist Party that your draft resolution does not deserve our agreement in three of its four aspects. First, on the issue of external evaluation, I do not think it makes sense to have an external assessment, except on the issues already mentioned by the European Union and the Portuguese State. He then said that a matter of this kind is, above all, administrative, which can and should be monitored by Parliament. But then, being an administrative issue, we want to introduce, in this matter, a greater requirement than we have for others of greater size, such as, for example, in the area of health, the authorisation of new medicines? Moreover, in the latter case it is not Parliament which prohibits or authorizes it, it must be the State. On the other hand, it is not clear that if the Portuguese State authorizes it, it does not come to Parliament's scrutiny, but it already comes to Parliament's supervision, if it is to prohibit it? Oh, my God! In my opinion, this makes no sense. It makes sense, yes, and there we will accompany the Socialist Party, that more information is provided, all the information available, and the label should contain all information about the GMOs. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u179	What about the government? What did the government approve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u180	For an intervention, Mr Ramos has the floor, using the short time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Miguel Freitas pointed out that there was nothing new in this area of the GMOs, except a proposal for a directive which could allow Member States to restrict or prohibit the use of GMOs. What happens is that at least two ministers of this government have already said that the government will not put any impediment or inhibition to its cultivation. Now, in our perspective, this is worrying and it is in this sense that we present our bill. I must also add, Mr President, that we do not agree with the fact that there is nothing new, because we believe that there are other new matters, namely the Transatlantic Treaty, the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, a trade treaty with the United States of America, which have a perspective on the production and use of organisms, completely different and which we in Europe do not accept in the same way. That is why there is also a crossing and implications for this matter. Mr Ulisses Pereira says he does not understand the exception regime. Perhaps, he did not read what was written there, because what the CFP project advocates is the prohibition of transgenics, except in cases of scientific research, for medical or therapeutic purposes and for other purposes considered relevant, provided that it is authorised by the Government. Then it is logical that legislation is regulated and that the regulatory procedures refine these matters which are defined here. On the other hand, when the Mr. Members say that the defense position of GMOs is a defense of the rural world, I must say that this position is mainly concerned with agribusiness, large multinationals, such as Syngenta or Monsanto, already referred to here—yes, it is concerned with this type of business. In fact, we do not cease to cross this aspect with the patenting process of seeds, which has been cooled, but which is still being defended by some, and which has a very great implication in the rural world and in the obligation to purchase seeds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u182	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u183	I will finish, Mr. President. I conclude by saying the following: Members say they are very available to approve, not bills, but moderate measures, in particular those contained in the PS draft resolution. What I mean is that measures are not moderate, they are unfair. And the gentlemen. Members, who have had governmental responsibilities and have not respected legislation or recommendations from the Assembly of the Republic, again join in adopting measures which are unjust and which do not go to the essence of the problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u184	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not understand only the PSD, CDS and PS, where exactly the principle of caution results. Then it's very interesting to see the vocabulary they used. It is because the PS says : « We have a prudent position », the PS says : « We have a cautious position» and the CDS says : « We have a tolerant position ». And in the midst of all these positions, what happens is the open-air experience of the cultivation of genetically modified organisms and a disqualification of organic farming in Portugal. Mr. Abel Baptista, let's bet on organic farming! You want to make a difference? Let's go! But we're not going with experiments, which, like the others. Members in the interior recognize, they may come up with bad results. It's just the ladies. Members know that there are many doubts about the effects of GMOs both on health and on the environment and on ecosystems, especially on biodiversity. Then Mr. Abel Baptista came to say: « We defend a democratic agriculture». Mr. Deputies, and we don't defend? Oh, my God! Mr President, what draws your attention to the issue of contamination, the inability to contain contamination? And when he speaks in democracy, in democratic countries, he is referring to which countries? In Germany? So Germany, in its perspective, is not democratic, because it has banned GMOs? Oh, my God! ...for me, it's not, but for other reasons. Are you referring to France, Austria, Poland, Luxembourg? Sir, let's see if we can find some more convincing arguments! And, Mr Ulisses Pereira, there was already a lack of argument about fighting hunger! We are not going through these hypocrisys, Mr. To fight hunger in the world we have all the tools available — everyone! It is the craving for profit, the lack of solidarity between humans in this world that does not allow to fight hunger. Do not now serve the multinationals, give them more profit, the pretext of fighting hunger, which they do not want to fight. These are false arguments, they're not worth anything, Mr. Deputies! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u186	Mrs. Members, the general debate on the projects of lein.o 811 / XII ( 4 ) is concluded. a ) ( Os Verdes ), 784 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE) and 805 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), in conjunction with draft resolution No 1293 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ). Let us turn to the general assessment of Bill No 166 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the system of goods in circulation subject to transactions between taxable persons of VAT ( ALRAA ). For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, considering that the regime of goods in circulation is excessively bureaucratic, constituting a serious obstacle to the efficiency of enterprises, particularly micro and small enterprises, which will negatively affect the competitiveness of our economy, and that this regime does not take into account the reality of production, distribution and modern logistics, nor the characteristics of the various operations in Portugal, proposes a set of changes to the regime in force, making it more appropriate to the reality of the national production fabric, consisting mostly of micro and small enterprises. The proposals of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores deserve our agreement. The goods transported for the purpose of affecting the own use of the activity, the transport of fish between ports and lota, together with the simplification of the communication by telephone and the exclusion of these obligations to businesses with a turnover of less than €250 000, are appropriate measures, proportionate to the objectives of combating tax evasion and escape. Micro and small enterprises, many small family farms, many rural activities and which, due to their quality and social and economic importance in the regions in which they enter, deserve differentiated treatment because they are different, have been adversely affected by the changes imposed by the current government to the regime of goods in circulation. at the time, the PCP alerted and denounced the perverse effects of the political options of the current majority, which rely on mistrust of micro and small entrepreneurs, in a strategy of accountability for tax escape and avoidance, treating them all as potential precursors. This government position aims to hide the ideological option of favouring the interests of large businesses and economic and financial groups, allowing them and facilitating abusive practices of aggressive tax planning, deeply affecting the public interest and leading to the tax burden on workers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government insists not to distinguish levels of informality and subsistence with financial crime, money laundering, aggressive tax planning schemes, only accessible to large economic and financial groups and great fortunes. The persecution of workers and micro and small-scale tax-based entrepreneurs contrasts with the policy of tax-promoting to large capital, with numerous and generous tax benefits, with tax losses, with tax planning instruments, which are made available to large companies and economic groups. We reaffirm here the need for an alternative fiscal policy which, together with the budgetary dimension, ensures the financing of the social functions of the State, breaks with the support of the large economic and financial groups and fiscally relieves workers and families, as well as micro and small businesses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u188	For an intervention, Mr. Jorge Rodrigues Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The popular saying 'fast and well there is no one' applies very well to all this legislative process related to the system of goods in circulation, subject to transactions between taxable persons of VAT. Let's see: the decree law of 2012 should have been applied in January 2013, but its execution was postponed to May 1, followed by a new postponement to July 1 and a new portal that cancelled any sanctions until October 2013, so that companies could adapt to the new system. The intention of creating a new regime to make it easier and faster to comply with the obligation to issue transport documents by companies proved to be an obstacle to their lives: instead of the intended efficiency and to simplify their lives, what was introduced was a complicated bureaucratic fabric using new technologies and with questionable utility procedures. Instead of working for simplification, for deburocratization, for measures that facilitate the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, we are in the opposite direction. If larger companies can more easily exceed what is required of them, the vast majority cannot meet the proposed requirements. If this is a reality that reaches a significant part of the Portuguese continent, it becomes more evident in island regions such as the Azores. The legislation in force brings enormous difficulties and much bureaucracy to different sectors, from agriculture to fisheries, to civil construction or to small distribution of products, and goes against all that is efficiency of a modern economy and against the will of economic operators. Without a doubt, we must be intransigent in combating the parallel economy, imaginative tax avoidance schemes, but what we cannot implement is inadequate mechanisms of reality. Strengthening supervision is therefore a necessity. This proposal by the regional assembly was adopted in July 2013, and was subsequently entered in this Parliament, but only now in 2015, has come to plenary. However, legislation has been published that responds to some of the regional requests, but there are still others that deserve our attention and should be analysed in their committee. Although at the end of 2013 Article 3 had been provided for. the, a greater number of exclusions, we believe that we should consider, as mentioned in this proposal, the possibility of introducing in this article agricultural vehicles, fish in the movement between ports and lota, goods transported for reasons of affect or use of the activity itself, such as to consider the increase in the turnover referred to in Article 5 ( 10 ). o. in this sense, we follow the proposal of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which was approved by all political parties represented in their regional assembly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u190	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a proposal by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores concerning a regime which has been in force since 2013. The truth is that the way in which the proposal was prepared clearly reflects some concerns and concerns and also some preconditions that were expected to occur and that if, on the one hand, in some cases, they did not occur, on the other hand, have already been supplanted. I am surprised at the Socialist Party's approach to this matter, because it has a speech which, in a way, ends up incongruent. It is that the government has not created a new obligation to be issued guides or transport documents; this obligation has existed for a long time, more than 30 years. What has happened was precisely the movement contrary to what you are referring to, which is to reduce bureaucracy. There is an automatic and immediate electronic transmission of transport documents. So if we are deleting paper and if we are creating an automatic procedure, which is done when the merchandise is dispatched, of course, we are contributing to less bureaucracy and no more bureaucracy. It's just the opposite. In addition, I would like to say that in fact the scheme that was created and the reference value of €100 000 is entirely compatible and consistent with a set of tax obligations, in particular that of companies having a certified billing system from €100 000. Therefore, the EUR 100 000 is not even a random value or that the Government has chosen an ad hoc form. All this to say that, in a way, we understand the concerns that were reflected at the time the project was developed in 2013. Today, in March 2015, and after a full year of application of this scheme, the year 2014, the results that we have and which have been achieved with regard to the fight against fraud and tax evasion are clearly satisfactory and go against the government objective, to fight fraud and tax evasion without hindrance for a simple reason: equity and justice. Therefore, the fight against fraud and tax evasion has always been a plan of the Socialist Party, so we do not understand how it referred to what this proposal intended to identify. In addition, however, the way it was developed exceeds the scope of the powers of the Legislative Assembly of the Azores itself, making, as I said in 2013 an amendment of this legal regime, which would be in force throughout the territory, and today, more than one year later, is in full operation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u192	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Lidia Bulcão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we are due to be discussed in the plenary a proposal from the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores with almost two years' delay. in this particular case, it seems even more serious because, in addition to having entered in July 2013, it was still accompanied by an urgent request from ALRAA ( Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores ), approved unanimously in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, on 29 July 2013. This form of treatment given to the initiatives that have come from the autonomous regions seems to me to undermine a certain disregard for regional autonomy and in no way dignify the functioning of the House of Democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u194	in this case, this delay becomes all the more serious and completely alters the context in which the proposal is now being discussed. on the date of entry, this initiative brought the debate an extremely relevant topic, since it was on the agenda the implementation of the new freight transport law, surrounded by some difficulties, which led to the subsequent postponement of the date of its entry into force. Now, over the past two years, the scenario is completely different and the main constraints have been overcome, for example, by introducing the exemption of a transport guide for cases of self-consumption or by harmonising and simplifying the transport guides for farmers. Today, the regime is not only functioning in full as it has achieved extremely positive results at national level, far above initial expectations. The 2014 transport document reform balance tells us that in 2014 some 75 000 companies electronically submitted transport documents, corresponding to about 30 000 economic agents daily, a total of 130 million transport documents and more than 1000 million goods transported. The success of the reform at national level, however, does not mean that there can still be some occasional constraints in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, due to its specific characteristics and geographical dispersion, which always condition the activity of small and medium-sized Azori companies. Therefore, and if the proposer understands it, perhaps it would be before considering the presentation of a proposal with a specific regime for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in place of this initiative which is clearly national in nature and which, as Mrs Vera Rodrigues said, seems to exceed the legislative competence of the Regional Assembly of the Azores in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u195	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an argument that has been used by the majority banks that are valid in this context and that is related to the period that has elapsed since the initiative entered the Assembly and the debate. I believe that it will be inconceivable for those who even hoped that there would be an urgent procedure in the Assembly of the Republic, which has spent more than one and a half years until the day of the debate. The concerns remain and I therefore believe that the problems identified will not result in the conclusion that this debate is no longer present, because it still has. There are several producers, economic agents who, as a result of having a very limited activity, have context costs that are obliged to meet, such as invoicing systems or emission systems, all the paraphernalia of documents relating to their tax obligations, which puts them in difficulty — and this is the case in this initiative — particularly when we are talking about agents with a rather reduced economic activity, with little money at stake and, therefore, legitimately say that, between having an activity, paying taxes, complying with the law, it is not possible to do both things, because the activity they have does not give them a return capable of maintaining, paying and fulfilling legality. The majority seats have used another argument, which I believe will lead to some reflection, at least at the time of the vote. They said, more explicitly to the PSD side, that we could even admit this debate on a specific regime for the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Now, the Left Block has pointed to several problems with the current model. So we think it's bad in the Azores, like it's bad in the whole country. But, truth be told, if we have a solution only for the Azores, it is less bad with what currently exists. We can start from this bill and make this debate in the specialty. To that end, it is necessary to open up all parliamentary groups in order to reach the stage of the speciality. Otherwise, our conclusion is that both the concerns of the CDS and the PSD on this matter in practice have no consequence. They say they are concerned, they would even have opened up a specific debate for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, but their concerns have no consequence because they will kill this initiative and any possibility of, by the end of the Legislative Session, having an amendment in the proceedings at least in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. We have this opening, we will vote in favour of the initiative and we will challenge it so that at least for the Azores it is possible to make a change to the law in force. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u197	Since there are no more inscriptions, I would like to conclude the general discussion of Bill No 166/ XII ( 2 ). ( a). [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 196 meetings, to which 4 PS Members are added, making 200 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with vote No 258 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Congratulations on the title obtained by Nelson Évora in the triple jump, at the 2015 European Championship of Covering Athletics ( PCP, BE, PS, PS, PSD, CDS-PP and Os Verdes ). Mr. Secretary, Mr. Jorge Machado, will please read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the title obtained by Nelson Évora, which was consecrated on 7 March 2015, European Champion of the Triple Salt, with the mark of 17, 21m, at the 2015 European Championship of Athletics in Pista Covera, which took place in Prague. Nelson Évora, 30-year-old Portuguese athlete, joins this title to the Champion of the Triple Jump World, in the Worlds of Osaka, in 2007, to the Olympic Medal Nobre Guedes, awarded in the same year, to the title of National Championship of the Triple Jump in 2008 and to the Gold Medal obtained at the Beijing Olympics in the same year. The recently achieved result and title gain special meaning considering the serious injuries suffered by Nelson Évora, in January 2012 and January 2014, overcome with great difficulties, but much determination, commitment and dedication of Nelson Évora. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the athlete Nelson Évora throughout his sporting journey and titles achieved, for the effort and dedication shown in overcoming the difficulties caused by the injuries suffered and congratulates the athlete Nelson Évora for the latest European championship title in the triple jump, thus ignifying and significantly valuing Portuguese athleticism. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 258 / XII ( 4. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation.]] We are now voting in general on Bill No 288 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of aliens from national territory. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] This initiative is down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 789 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Eliminates golden visas from the Immigration Act ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, we now generally vote on Bill No 810 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Regularization of immigrant and minor workers born in Portugal or attending the education system ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PCP, BE, The Greens and the Member of PS Celeste Correia.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 767 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the scheme of incompatibilities and impediments applicable to local electors and extends its scope to holders of inter-municipal bodies and specific purpose associations ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE and with abstentions from PS, the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u201	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u202	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u203	Madam President, it is to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on the bill we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u204	Be registered. Mrs. Members, the general vote of Bill No 768 / XII is followed ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amending the Statute of Members by making the rules of exclusivity of Members compulsory to the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u205	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u206	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u207	Madam President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u208	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 806 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of Deputies and the Legal Regime of Incompatibilities and Impediments of Political Charge Holders and High Public Charges ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u209	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u210	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u211	Madam President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on the two previous diplomas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u212	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall generally vote on draft law No 808/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the incompatibilities of policy holders and high public positions ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 811 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Prevents the cultivation, marketing and deliberate release in the environment of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and Os Verdes and the abstention of PS Deputies Carlos Enes and Inês de Medeiros.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 784 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified plant organisms ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and Os Verdes and the abstention of PS Deputies Carlos Enes and Inês de Medeiros.]] We now vote in general on Bill No 805 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Regulation or cultivation of genetically modified agricultural varieties ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and Os Verdes and the abstention of PS Deputies Carlos Enes and Inês de Medeiros.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u213	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last three bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u214	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 1293 / XII ( 4 ) follows ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government guidelines relating to the process of transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/18 / EC as regards the possibility of Member States limiting or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs ) in their territory ( PS ). I note that the text of this draft resolution has been amended by its author. Mrs. Members, the CDS-PP calls for a joint vote on points (a), (b) and (c) and then for a separate vote on point (d). Let us then vote jointly on points (a), (b) and (c) of draft resolution No 1293 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP and the BE, against the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PSD and the Greens.]] We are now voting on point (d) of the same draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP and the BE and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u215	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u216	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u217	Madam President, in order to make the Greens voting sense understandable with regard to the draft resolution we have just voted on understandable, we will make a statement in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u218	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for some sort of time-saving, we have not read the headings of the points that have been voted on. However, the Bureau usually does, although it has not done so now. We are now voting on a request by the PSD and the CDS-PP for discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, without a vote of 90 days in the proposed Law No 166 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the system of goods in circulation subject to transactions between taxable persons of VAT ( ALRAA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma therefore falls to 5. the Commission within 90 days. We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works on the proposal for a law No 226 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the performance of the construction activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u219	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u220	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u221	Mr President, it is to be announced that, as regards the vote on the final texts relating to the proposals for lein. 226 and 227 / XII ( 3 ). ( a) I shall not participate in the vote for any conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u222	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall then vote, in the overall final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works on the proposal for a law No 226 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime applicable to the performance of the construction activity. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u223	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works, on the proposal for a law No 227 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 establishing the professional qualification required by technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, coordination of projects, management of public works or private works, conduct of the execution of the work of the different specialties in particular works of class 6 or higher and the supervision of public works or private works. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u224	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u225	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u226	To announce that, in relation to the votes on the proposals for lein.226 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 227 / XII ( 3. ( a ) the CFP shall submit a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u227	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr. Paulo Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u228	Madam President, I would also like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u229	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on three opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to announce these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members gave the Bureau three opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication. The first opinion concerns a request from the Comarca do Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia, Section Criminal — J1, Case No 232 / 13.1GFVNG, and the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mrs Adelaide Canastro ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u231	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, please take note of the second opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u232	Mr President, the second opinion refers to a request from the Comarca de Lisboa, Central Court, 1. the Criminal Instruction Section — J7, Case No 11469 / 12.0TDLSB, having the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria da Conceição Caldeira ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings under those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u233	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco will take note of the third and final opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u234	Madam President, the last opinion relates to a request from the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Comarca do Porto, DIAP, 7. the Section, Case No 193 / 14.10PIPRT, having the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr José Magalhães ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-12.u235	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, there will be no plenary. As you all know, there will be the PS Parliamentary Days, which, I wish, run with the greatest happiness. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday 18, beginning at 3 p.m. with the following items on the agenda: 1 — Political statements; 2 — Debate on draft resolution No 1281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of measures to combat skin cancer ( PPD / PSD and CDS-PP ) ; 3 — Joint assessment of petition No 428 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Presented by AHRESP — Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the replacement of VAT in food and beverage services in restaurants and hotels, and consequent legislative amendment and draft resolution No 1303/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the replacement of the VAT rate in the catering sector at 13 % ( The Greens ). The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 12 minutes.]]
