ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 782/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Unjustified enrichment ( thirty-fifth amendment to the Penal Code approved by Decree-Law No 48 / 95 of 15 March, fourth amendment to Law No 34 / 87 of 16 July and sixth amendment to Law No 4 / 83 of 2 April ) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; 783 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September — Process for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission and 784 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified plant organisms ( BE ) which fall to 7. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The final beneficiaries of the financial transactions that read the BES and the Portuguese State ( PCP ), which fall to 5. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u3	Mrs. Members, let us, then, start the agenda, beginning by discussing, in general, Bill No. 775 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for nightguard activity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the bill, Mr. Paulo Simões Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiative which the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups here present today is intended to approve the legal regime of nightguard activity and to define the status applicable to professionals who exercise it. The PSD recognises the importance and social value of the service provided by nightguards, in so far as we consider it likely to contribute to improve citizens' sense of security, in direct collaboration with security forces. This surveillance activity has an ancient origin, with private contours, for profit purposes and aimed at private property security, characterized by being carried out in the public domain, in a time scheme exclusively at night, which is therefore very particular in the framework of private security instruments. In this legislature, we discussed a PCP bill on this subject, but it contained, as we had the opportunity to say in the debate in general, some shortcomings: it did not foresee the legal regime concerning the creation, modification and extinction of the nightguard service ; it did not fully address the issue of the development of the nightguard activity, particularly with regard to the duties and duties of these professionals and the need to maintain a civil liability insurance, among other aspects; nor did it provide for the counter-ordination procedures that could be triggered as a result of the violation of the duties to which these professionals are linked, as well as the sanctions that could and should be applied. This bill that we present here also seeks to answer these questions, these gaps that were identified at the time. Currently, as we know, the legal rules governing night watchman activity are dispersed by several legal diplomas. In fact, although it has always been recognized that the activity of nightguards can contribute to the improvement of security in general, it has never been clearly defined in a legal degree itself. This is what this majority intends to do, proposing to this House the definition and establishment of a legal and regulatory framework appropriate and centralized for the activity carried out by nightguards. With this bill, it is clear to us that the nightguard activity is a provision of surveillance services and protection of goods in public procurement during the night and in the geographical area defined by the respective municipal chamber, based on a general principle of collaboration with security forces, providing the aid requested by them and falling within the scope of their duties. On the other hand, it is our conviction that in its relationship with citizens, the night watchman must respect the principles of equality, proportionality, justice, impartiality and good faith. Despite the goodness of the proposal presented here, we are fully available for a consensualization effort in order not only to achieve the best solutions but above all to confer stability on the solutions that are being found by this House. It is that the stability of solutions in the area of security, in our view, means the stability of security itself and also the stability of our own system and democracy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u5	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of the PSD and the CDS-PP, insofar as it is indeed accompanying a debate that has already begun in this House through a legislative initiative presented by the CFP and which, in due course, is now emerging for discussion. This is an initiative that brings good purposes in this regard. On the one hand, it aims to avoid the dispersion of standards and attempts to standardize solutions in a more secure framework for this activity. It has the advantage of seeking to offer greater clarity to the exercise of the activity and also to the rights of those who exercise it, making it clearer what role of regulation, which role of the authorities, and which form, in essence, to dignify a profession already with a very considerable history. Therefore, at the end of almost a decade in which several changes have taken place that have increased the regulatory framework, this may be the occasion to close once and for all the remaining doubts and give a clear regulatory framework. In spite of this, in spite of everything, we wanted to leave some notes for what might be the debate, then in the field of expertise and for which we also welcome the willingness of the majority to discuss the matter. First, there is doubt, of course, whether we are not going a little too far in what we put in the law. The desire to include everything and, eventually, to avoid regulatory dispersion may have led the author to put more matters into the law than those that would be desirable. Much of what we have here is detailed on the procedures for tenders, on the form and on the elements to be presented, if any, could continue in a regulatory area. Then it seems to us that, in terms of the articulation of the roles of local authorities, it is still necessary to make some refinements, given, on the one hand, that the amendment of the legislative framework of the competences of municipalities and Freguesias transferred to the parish, under the potential of delegated protocols with the municipalities, some tasks in licensing. It would therefore be important to define exactly what are the bodies of the local authorities that can perform these functions. On the other hand, as far as regulation is concerned, it is also necessary to clarify whether, in fact, there is room for municipal regulations after this proposal. In other words, the transitional standard of the diploma provides for the maintenance of the existing regulations and also provides for its revision, once the law enters into force, but effectively remains the doubt as to whether there is room for municipal regulation, given that much of the relevant matters on the competition and on the criteria for determining who will intervene in the territories ends up being shaped by the law. If the conclusion is that it is desirable to continue to have municipal regulations, an enabling standard should be produced which will enable the municipal chambers or municipal assemblies to issue the same standards, which is something that this diploma does not yet take care of. Finally, I leave a note on the counter-ordinary framework, because it seems to us that there is indeed the forecast of this sanction framework, but there is a lack of forecast of an important framework for the lack of a title of activity. We have sanctions for the irregular exercise of nightguard activity, but there is a lack of forecast for the untitled exercise of this activity, which seems equally relevant to me and which can be added to the diploma. Moreover, as I have said, we are available to work on improving the regime, particularly with regard to its link with the arms regime, the civil liability insurance scheme, which is introduced in the proposal and which is also a positive aspect, to the very issue of the tax treatment of this activity, which may be the subject of further discussion. We can discuss further questions as to whether competitions for the allocation of the territorial areas for the intervention of nightguards are desert, insofar as it is necessary to know whether the appearance of an interested party would then require the opening of a new competitive procedure or whether intermediate solutions could be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u7	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u8	I shall end, Madam President, by once again expressing the Socialist Party's intention to work together in the construction of a solution that alerts everyone's position and effectively improves the legislative framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u9	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has just said, we have now resumed a legislative process which was initiated at the first legislative session of this Parliament with a draft CFP law on this subject, which was generally adopted in 1. the Commission for the assessment of the specialty. This initiative by the parties of the majority is welcome to this legislative process, from the outset because there is some margin of agreement that we can establish, and which I will mention in summary, and there is also some margin of divergence that we can see if there are any possibilities to resolve. from our point of view, the regulation of nightguard activity is required for several reasons. Firstly, because it is a good experience from the point of view of safeguarding people and goods. The existence of a network of nightguards is an important element of complementarity with regard to the action of forces and security services, not to be confused with it, is important for ensuring the tranquillity of the people and it is also important because it allows many citizens who are currently unemployed and who have the necessary profile to be able to perform this activity—which, in fact, requires a high level of fitness—to develop this service for the benefit of the community. thus, they guarantee their means of subsistence, providing a service, which is public, to their fellow citizens and which is not even paid by the public record, insofar as the night watchman activity is financed by the populations, by the traders, by those who voluntarily agree to pay a contribution to the night watchman of their area. Therefore, this activity is worthy and important that it is regulated, from then on so that it does not confuse itself with the activity of the security forces, nor with the activity of private security companies. One point I want to underline is the strictly individual character of nightguard activity. This activity should not be handed over to private security companies and, therefore, for us, this regulation is extremely important. Of course, it is necessary to reconcile the powers to be conferred on local authorities, which must be decisive, with what must be done by the security forces. The solution proposed by the majority, in which the PSP is referred only to a position to sell courses, does not seem to us to be the most appropriate one. We should better consider the relationship that security forces should have with nightguard activity. We believe that security forces should rely on the collaboration that nightguards can provide for their activity, but should have a collaborative activity and also a monitoring role in relation to the proper form of this activity is developed. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to express our satisfaction at the new impetus given to this legislative process and in fact hope that we will be able to leave this process, after the discussion on the specialty, with a regulation of the night watchman activity that is a good contribution to the activity carried out by these professionals and that it will also be good news for the citizens and local authorities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u11	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following this speech by Mr António Filipe, I mean that in some way this process began and had a first round of debate, so to speak, when the CFP presented its project on nightguards. Moreover, this project is not in the final decision and we can resume it now, in this second round of the debate, to reach conclusions on this matter. As has been said by several benches, I would like to stress that the activity of nightguards is important, with an important history, being very relevant that the regime that has been approved allows more recourse to this reality because, in particular in urban space, the return to a model of nightguards is a very important security mechanism. It is also important to distinguish between the activity of a night watchman and the normal activity of private security companies. It's not the same thing. Mr. Paulo Simões Ribeiro, when he presented this diploma, well explained this distinction between what is usually private security and the activity of nightguards. This diploma addresses an important issue, which is how we can enable someone to serve as nightguards, which is a function of enormous responsibility, and how the same activity is licensed, i.e. to define who issues the license, who regulates it and who certifys it. As we have heard so far, the central idea of the diploma — municipalization, using the expression a little abusively, of the role and regulation of nightguards — has been welcomed by all the benches, which I think is very important. It seems to me that this is the right way and I also share and welcome Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' good disposition. I just don't know if there will be any contradictions in the words of the honourable Member when he says that, on the one hand, the law goes too far, and when, on the other hand, it identifies points where, in fact, the municipalities still have to regulate. In other words, I believe that the law goes as far as it can go and I find it indisputable that there are concrete aspects of definition, but that the law already points to the definition of the space of nightguard performance which, in some cases, may be a parishioner. However, in the large urban parish, which you know so well, you will probably have to be a neighborhood or a set of streets, a more concrete space than the space of the parish. All this is for the camera, which, moreover, as the law says, and well, will have a jury to decide who is qualified to be the night watchman in a certain geographic space. I believe this project will improve some of the errors we pointed to the project that the Communist Party presented. I don't think there's a problem in the connection with the security forces. The project, from this point of view, is very clear. It does not say, like the PCP project, that security forces would have to provide the weapons, which would obviously be an absurd and confusion between the public and the private. Although it has security implications and is regulated and controlled by the security forces and by the city itself, the activity is, however, private, so the night watchman has to acquire his own equipment in accordance with the terms set out in the law and, including, will have to declare it and inform the competent authorities of it. It is very clear that there can be no replacement, in any case, of the activity of the security forces for the activity of nightguards. The role of nightguards is essentially a preventive function, to take note of incidents, possible crimes, of people who are preparing an assault that residents themselves detect and to be able to alert, as is evident. This is therefore an auxiliary function of residents and security forces, being also preventive, not only in cases of crimes or assaults, but also in situations, which we all know, and which we all find important to control, of behaviors of incivility, such as noise, disturbances of public order, etc. This is therefore the role of the night watchman, who is not confused with the action of the security forces, even though his presence may be very important in the prevention, repression of crimes and in proximity to the residents themselves because he is someone of whom the residents will have the contact and who can, at any time, call, and who, in the first line and before the security forces, can alert and have the capacity to act. This is the goal of the diploma that is on the table. I don't think it excludes or eliminates...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u13	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u14	I am indeed concluding, Madam President. As I was saying, the diploma does not exclude or eliminate other diplomas that have already been approved and, in the field of specialty, we can work together. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u15	For an intervention by the Left Block, Mrs Cecília Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome this initiative from the majority. It is a fact that for years and years nightguards have been awaiting the possibility of having a professional status that recognizes and dignity their activity and the fundamental role they have in protecting people and goods. It is also true that this opportunity was opened here by a legislative initiative of the CFP. At the time, we discussed the special duty of the nightguards to collaborate with the security forces, the need for their training to be provided by the PSP, as well as aspects relating to access to careers or equipment and armaments. in this bill we were able to raise frank positive aspects. However, we believe that, given the openness recognised here by the PSD, there is an opportunity, as a specialist, to protect some of the recommendations or demands made by the representatives of these professionals themselves, in particular on the question of training, which we are very concerned about and which we believe must be universal, so that all night guards have the same training. As for the competitions themselves, which should have an annual periodicity, we should also have the assurance that this activity can be expanded across the national territory. With the passage of these powers to the chambers, there is at present an empty one, there are virtually no licenses assigned, and it is necessary to control or circumvent all this proliferation of standards, giving the chambers the powers that this bill is capable of recognising in the global. In our understanding, these licences should also contemplate the damage to the precariousness of these professionals and recognize that it is a risk activity and that all conditions should be met and safeguarded so that there would be a networked, articulated intervention, and within the framework of collaboration between the other nightguards and the security forces themselves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u17	Mr Paulo Simões Ribeiro has signed up to make a new intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to mention some of the points here. Mr Cecilia Honorio has now spoken about the question of training. The issue of licensing and counter-ordinations was some of the aspects that Mr. Members mentioned in the debate, which I think can, among all, be improved in the speciality and fruitful discussion that we will certainly have. I think it was clear in this debate that there is a very clear unanimity in order to agree that the night guard function is a collaborator, an auxiliary of the security forces, but that it is not confused with the security forces themselves or with private security. It's good that this is very clear. I think we all agree on this. Finally, I would like to record the availability for the consensus shown, and that the majority reiterates, so that, in the field of expertise, we can introduce the improvements that everyone believes are necessary. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u19	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so we conclude the debate on draft law No 775 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime for nightguard activity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 426 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a special regime for alleged death in the event of shipwreck of fishing vessels ( CFP ), 778 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of persons in accidents ( PS ) and 781 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Facilitates the alleged death declaration in the event of shipwreck or disappearance of a vessel ( BE). To present the bill of PCP authorship, Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Fishing activity is a high-risk activity. The lack of profitability and the low prices paid by the fish at first sale determine that even in adverse sea situations fishermen risk. The CFP has submitted different proposals for the protection of these fishermen, in particular by improving their income and ensuring income in stop situations. The project we are discussing today addresses the need to safeguard the living conditions of families after disasters happen and after death. The history of our country is unfortunately marked by numerous shipwrecks and deaths of fishermen. When a fisherman disappears in an accident, the family is often without any protection and unable to receive compensation for the death of their family member in a work accident. Today, only one missing fisherman is presumed to have died in a shipwreck of 10 years of the accident. It is true that this presumption is possible in the short term, but it implies a judicial action that can be dragged for almost the same time and obliges the presentation of elements sometimes impossible to gather for proof of death. All of this makes judicial action complex and uncertain. In many situations, until death is presumed, the insurers refuse to pay the compensation. It is true that some pay today, particularly the mutual fishermen, but it is also true that the law does not oblige them to do so. Without the presumption of death, the lives of those who have lost their loved one in access to social benefits by widower or orphaned person, in the registration and sale of goods, in the resolution of all the problems that force the presentation of a death seat, such as credit to housing, the transaction of vehicles, among others. It is because of these difficulties that the CFP Parliamentary Group believes that, in the face of a shipwreck confirmed by the competent authority, in the face of a role of shipowners confirming the presence of the missing in the shipwrecked vessel, it is possible to assume death after 90 days of disappearance. Systems similar to those proposed exist in Spain and France. For the most cautious it is important to remember that today the compulsory registration of the crew, the use of geolocation equipment, the evolution of the means of rescue and recovery make it virtually impossible to fake a shipwreck. There are today, for the worst reasons, with some media coverage, cases where it is known that the bodies are inside the wrecked boats, but the fact that they do not recover does not allow families to mourn that they are entitled to and solve other problems such as those we have already described. We know and examine the opinions of the entities that have spoken. We have found similar frameworks in other countries. We know that there are other proposals which have nevertheless emerged. The CFP is available for, in discussion of the specialty, to consider the changes that respond to the concerns raised. We will be available as long as the principle of substantially reducing waiting time is guaranteed so that the fishermen's families can overcome the problems resulting from the shipwrecks and the simplification and unbureauty of the judicial process. With other proposals, the CFP intends to bring security to the fishing activity by minimizing accident possibilities. With this concrete proposal, we intend to minimize the pain and solve the specific problems of families after the tragedy. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u21	To present the PS bill, Mr Jorge Fão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today something that we consider of great importance, sensitive and even of great emotion, especially for the fishing community of our country. Unfortunately, it is often that we are all overwhelmed by reports of tragic accidents at sea that often result in dramatic shipwrecks, with victims who die from drowning, and often the bodies recovered, but also, in many cases, disappearing for long periods of time and, in particular — the most serious and dramatic situation — when they are never located or recovered. It is in this latter scenario that complex and traumatic sets of problems of a legal nature are initiated and triggered, caused by the difficulty and morbidity that exist today to attest to the effective certification of the death of missing persons. from here they result in emotional, social and subsistence problems of the victims' families, which really lead to morbid processes, of great difficulty. It is clear that the main concern with this problem must remain — and the State should channel all its energies and investments in this direction — in combating the causes of accidents, reducing the risk of shipwreck, in particular by supporting the improvement of ship safety conditions, improving the vocational training of seamen, investing in more and better means of rescue and rescue, improving weather forecast and the management of bars; etc. However, it is also important to improve the national legal system in order to make it more agile and, above all, to speed up the effective resolution of bureaucratic problems of victims' families. The PS recognises this fragility and the need to improve standards and therefore, as always, in all matters relating to improving the working conditions of fishermen and defending the rights of this class, the PS has always been in line with this cause. The problem is, above all, sense and lived in the fishing community where, perhaps, the consequences of the morosity of the processes cause more disturbance. However, it should be borne in mind that this sector is not the only drama. Therefore, in our understanding, the subject should be dealt with with with broader concerns and a broader view to other situations where accidents also occur, with the disappearance of people who are never recovered again. The national legal system, either through the Civil Code or the Civil Register Code, already includes some provisions governing this matter. However, the PS recognises that the practical application of these measures is time-consuming and often does not respond in some respects to the full exercise of rights by victims' families and therefore clearly needs to be improved. We are therefore committed to making our contribution and therefore present a bill that aims to promote the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of people in accidents. We consider this to be the priority of priorities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, shortening the times of judicial decision, ensuring the full exercise of the rights of the victims' families and promoting the procedure and acceleration of administrative acts are our purposes. We believe that, in specialized work, it will be possible to improve this and the other proposals and establish a definitive regulatory framework to solve the problems caused in the full exercise of the rights of the families of the victims who have disappeared in shipwrecks and other accidents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u23	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would not like to mention the dramas that we all know in the country when there are fishermen who die, because I think we all know these same dramas. What we are trying to do today is to bring together consensus to solve and cushion, so let us say, because that is what this is about, these same dramas. The diploma we bring here is a simple project that responds in a simple way, in order to avoid the immense expectation of ten years, or less, in the case of a judicial process that often drags itself for a very long time. Therefore, the way in which we are dealing with this problem here is by making an amendment to the Civil Code, in the sense that it is to register - in fact, the circumstances that exist in other legal systems, in particular in Spanish and other legislation - the possibility that, within three months of the date of the shipwreck or disappearance of the vessel, the persons concerned may request the declaration of presumed death. We know that only after this situation can families access all subsidies, all insurance, thus triggering the whole compensation process resulting from such great drama. For this reason, this project is simple. I believe that today we have an opportunity in this House to approve the bills under discussion, in the sense that, in the debate on the subject, we can consensualize the legal mechanism which, in fact, responds to what are so many and so many dramas that this Parliament cannot obviously stay away from. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u25	On behalf of the PSD, Mrs Paula Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's initiatives, the authorship of various parliamentary groups, have as a underlying reality the accidents resulting from the risks that fishermen, in the exercise of their activity, run, which sometimes and unfortunately result in their death. There are, in fact, legal solutions in the Portuguese legal system, either in the Civil Code or in the Code of Civil Registration Process, which can be obvious to these situations, but these have not always proved effective, fair and speedy, so that family members can be resuscitated in a reasonable time. In fact, nowadays, the technical means put at the disposal of navigation, the bureaucratic requirements for registers and registrations to which ships and their crews are subject do not raise any doubts as to the accident and identity of the injured, considerably reducing the risk in terms of legal certainty. In a situation of shipwreck of fishing vessels, when the bodies of fishermen are not found, families will have to resort to one of two instruments provided for in Portuguese law: either through the Civil Code, with a presumed death declaration, or through the means of civil registration, with judicial justification for obtaining a death certificate. We all know that the working conditions of fishermen are harsh, adverse and that the economic condition of their families is often precarious. We also know that speed in paying compensation or other pensions is essential for the survival of the families in question. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group is sensitive to this issue, not ignoring these difficulties. For this reason, PSD is available, even admitting that some adjustments and corrections will have to be made at the site of specialty, to collaborate in this work in order to find the best solutions to avoid the difficulties and entropies of the system. Our maritime vocation, as well as our history, makes this a matter of humanitarian charity, above any use or political issue, and that is how the PSD will deal with it. The failure to obtain a death statement for too long must be resolved. Not ignoring the precautions that need to be taken when declaring someone's death and not forgetting that other situations will have to be reflected in the same light, such as the fall of aircraft in the open sea, the case of recreational or recreational boats, or others which by its framework consolidate an equally or similar factuality, we have already reiterated our full openness to work on this issue in order to allow a solution that will put an end to this social and human tragedy. They can count on the PSD to contribute with all the necessary collaboration in order to end these dramas and humanitarian issues so pressing that we are not outside and to which we are sensitive. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u27	For an intervention by the CDS, Mr. João Viegas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diplomas we are discussing today seek ways to expedite the alleged death statement in cases of incidents or natural disasters, and whose bodies cannot be recovered or identified safely. The project of the Portuguese Communist Party focuses specifically on the tragedies in fishing vessels, while those of the Socialist Party and the Left Block have a general scope. Some aim essentially to create a procedure guaranteeing the families of victims a way to shorten the duration of the legal guarantee deadlines to reduce the period between the incident and the allocation and payment of social benefits and compensation to which it is entitled. It is not only to alleviate the suffering caused by the loss of the family but also to assist families quickly. First, it is necessary to affirm our understanding and solidarity with those who go through such situations and with the good intention of these projects, but we must consider other aspects as well. It provides for our Civil Code, with regard to presumed death, the requirement of the ten-year course on the date of the last news or five-year period if the absent has been 80 years old. Advocates consider that the criteria and time limits laid down in the Act for the declaration of presumed death are neither practical nor fair, particularly when it comes to situations of shipwreck of fishing vessels. It is true that the current law allows an action to justify the death immediately after the existence of a shipwreck without having to comply with the above deadlines. However, this is not an action that produces an alleged death statement, and only this seems to satisfy the insurers,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u29	... which, in addition to the delay of a judicial action of alleged death, often results in the practice of a new martyrdom to add to the one who constituted the disappearance of his family. Throughout this period, situations of lack of income, in the form of compensation for work accidents and social support, both dependent on the verification or presumption of death, cause serious problems to the victims' family members. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from a procedural perspective, we would say that the Socialist Party mixes two processes — the death justification and the presumed death declaration — which are, in substance, distinct, because there is no certainty about death and - the alleged death declaration procedure provided for in the Civil Code, or death is proven and applies the judicial justification process of death provided for in the Civil Register Code. The two of you at the same time can't be. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u30	On the other hand, the Socialist Party'solves the problem of delays in the payment of compensation and social benefits with the mere presentation of the certificate of waiting for the process of judicial justification of death. That is, without any sentence given in it, which seems to us to be a bold solution. As for the Left Block, it creates a new norm, which reduces to three months the general deadline of ten years to demand presumed death when it comes to someone who has disappeared in a shipwreck situation, making the same confusion as the Socialist Party between judicial justification of death and a declaration of presumed death. What these three initiatives have in common, in the view of the CDS, is that all of them can challenge the necessary legal certainty. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS is not indifferent, as has already been mentioned, to the social dramas that enter us every day through the door. In this case too, we want to contribute to finding a solution, weighing the pros and cons of the various parties' proposals, in order to produce a consensual text that allows us all to conclude that we have made the difference. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u31	For a second intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to reiterate my initial speech by welcoming the speeches of all of us and all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that it is important today that we achieve a consensus and unite around what is essential. As a specialist, we will be able to stop in detail, but we will have to consensualise an effective law that responds to the concrete problem we are discussing. I think it is to welcome the openness expressed today, because it took many years to conclude that we would have to respond to the dramas of the families who see their loved ones disappear at sea, at work, often after their entire lives devoted to fishing and to an activity that they love very much. I therefore believe that the time has come for this Parliament to give a signal and to resolve this problem, within the framework of the consensus that we are all, in the field of expertise, certainly able to arrive. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u33	For a second speech, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP Parliamentary Group welcomes the positions that have been expressed and the possibility that, by approving the draft laws, we may, in the field of expertise, refine a number of issues. In particular, what has happened is that the legal framework that exists has not avoided a number of difficult situations, as has been recognised by all. I think news such as those that say « they are still waiting for the law to be widows», « neither the property of the car can change », « they are missing, even though they know that the corpses are at the bottom of the sea inside the boat» cannot continue to appear in our newspapers. So we have to do something to change this situation. As I have already said, in the field of specialty we can resolve small differences that exist, given that, essentially, we agree on this matter. Finally, I would like to point out that the CFP is very pleased to be able to make this contribution to alleviate the difficulties of these families who have lost their loved ones. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u35	We therefore conclude this point on the discussion of the projects of lein. 426 / XII ( 2. ( a ), 778 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 781 / XII ( 4. ( a ) which will be voted on tomorrow during the voting period. We will move to the third point of our order of business, which is generally appreciated by the projects of lein.o 763 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Functional reorganization of the emergency service network ( BE) and 780 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes Ordinance No 82 / 2014 of 10 April, which sets out the criteria for categorising the services and establishments of the National Health Service ( SNS ) according to the nature of their responsibilities and the framework of the valences exercised and their positioning of the hospital network and proceeds to their classification ( PS ) in conjunction with draft resolution No 1262 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent resolution of the problems facing emergency services ( CFP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Hospital emergency services have shown the increasing difficulties of the National Health Service in responding to the needs of the populations. True chaos; blockage in care; exhausted professionals; hours and hours waiting for the first service; worsening of the clinical conditions of the users, while waiting to be seen for the first time by the doctor; resignation in the block of directors of services in hospitals, such as Garcia de Orta and Amadora Sintra, claiming that the quality of the service provided is concerned: these are just a few examples and aspects that characterize the situation that we all know exists and that needs a solution. The Left Block has strengthened its conviction about the need for a change in the organisation of the emergency service network that can contribute to unlocking many situations and improving the service to users. According to official data, 46% of hospital emergency seekers correspond to situations classified as non-emergency, green and blue in the Manchester Triage. It is about this group of users that affects our proposal. They are not urgent patients, but they are sick, and if they are not cared for, they may become urgent. Different clinical situations require different responses, services, spaces and teams. The mixture that occurs today in hospital emergencies, especially in times of great overload, is a disruptor of its functioning. The amendment we propose is concrete: where there is a medical or polyvalent urgency there must be a basic urgency. It is an experience already tested, even successfully, in some hospital units, and we argue that this question and form of organization should be extended. Resolve everything? No, don't. Determining for the current situation is undoubtedly the underfinancing of the SNS, the hiring and the form of hiring of professionals and the reduction of the number of beds. Resolve everything, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? No, no, no. But something changed. That changed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u37	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, patients who wait 7, 8, 10 or 12 hours for a service; patients hospitalized in caderos because hospitals do not have monkeys or beds for hospitalization, as happened in Portalegre ; cancer patients who, as happened at Beja Hospital, are hospitalized for six days in the corridor of a hospital;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u39	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u40	... firepeas kept in emergency services a little across the country; hospitals to rent monkeys to firemen because they do not have monkeys, and some come to the Algarve corporations to the Lisbon region; patients who, after several hours in the emergency service, leave the hospital without having been cared for: here is the portrait of emergency services a little across the country. This portrait is not today, it is not now, it is not punctual. It's a portrait that's been installed for a long time. The government knew and did nothing. But the situation is not left here: because of the lack of professionals, and especially because of the government's political option not to hire the professionals in need, hospital emergency services are mainly provided by temporary workers and by internal doctors. Now, the use of temporary employment companies, in addition to paying more the National Health Service, leaves many hours and shifts unanswered, empty, as has already happened in several hospitals, and very recently at the Hospital da Póvoa de Varzim. The chaotic and disruptive situation in which emergency services are located a little across the country is the result of the political options of this government, the cuts in funding in the National Health Service, the social and professional devaluation of health workers, the de-investment in primary health care and the closure of extensions and nearby health centers. The situation of rupture in the emergency services of hospitals is not, as we have said, a point problem, it is not a conjuncural problem, it is a structural problem that needs structural measures, measures that the legislative initiative we present here, that the draft resolution we are discussing today aims to combat, and that are the following: strengthening primary health care and the articulation of these care with hospital care; hiring professionals in need and their valorization: ensuring the stability of teams of professionals affected by emergency services to ensure the functioning of emergency services with internal physicians and specialized doctors and reopening of beds closed in recent years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u41	To present the PS bill, Mrs. Sandra Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, the Minister of Health and the majority insist that the country and the National Health Service are better. However, reality proves that health and Portuguese are much worse. The discursive dimension of Minister Paulo Macedo and most are successively opposed by the dimension of reality. [[PCP applause.]] The chaotic situation in emergency services is the tip of the iceberg of the general state of the National Health Service. It is the mirror of all its problems and is also a dramatic example of the fiscal consolidation strategy followed by the government. The choices and decisions made reflect the absence of structural policies in the area of health, meaning the integral failure of the measures, which are avulsive and desquared. The political options, the four years of austerity and the successive cuts — double the agreements with the troika —, both in human resources and in the media, as well as the impoverishment of the population, have degraded the response of health services, and today the SNS itself is called into question. The hospital reclassification portal is an example of the government's erratic policy and a vision that is focused solely on saving. Announced as a fundamental part of the reform of hospital care, it has been successively discredited by both health care actors and by the Minister of Health himself and his State Secretaries, who have publicly cancelled all of its contents. The Socialist Party believes that the door should be immediately revoked on the basis of four essential points. First point: in this diploma, the keyword is not classification, it is disqualification — the disqualification of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Dequalification, when seeking the closure of clinical trials and services, without precaution of the needs of the population and without evaluating and weighing the options that most gains could guarantee, either in terms of access and quality in the provision of health care to populations, or in terms of better management and greater efficiency in cost reduction. The changes suggested by this diploma involve travelling further between the various health units in the country and these distances involve time, costs and means, all of them scarce, from then on to the users of the National Health Service, i.e. Portuguese and Portuguese. Secondly, this diploma has raised huge doubts and enormous concerns among populations about creating barriers that further hinder access to health care. It reveals the absence of a weighted assessment of the impact that such measures would have on the level of users, health professionals and institutions. The government itself quickly realized that he had embarked on a wrong path and, at the first opportunity, he gave up his own Office. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third point: at the time of its publication, the Portaria was widely challenged, either by professionals and users, or by the authorities, who did not revert to this reclassification. Fourth and last point: the absence of discussion and involvement of experts, institutions and bodies is clearly evident in this diploma and shows the lack of transparency of the whole process, confusion in decisions taken and a great ignorance of reality. The Government could not have taken this decision alone and in doing so it condemned its decision to failure, as it is evident to all today, including for the Minister of Health. The success of a decision of this magnitude is only feasible when there is involvement by professionals, institutions, structures of the Ministry of Health, associations of patients and authorities, based on credible studies and a comprehensive public discussion. Keeping in force a law that does not only apply discredits the State itself and democracy, as well as continuing to postpone the so announced and not carried out hospital reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u43	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u44	I will now finish, Mr President. at this moment, the great urgency of the country, in health matters, is to stabilize the National Health Service. It is not sustainable to continue every day, day after day, to watch the successive resignation of health officials and continuous reports of permanent chaos. The repeal of this Ordinance is an urgent step and we hope that the majority will be able to approve it, since the Minister of Health has already publicly taken the mistake in his approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u45	For an intervention, Mrs Elsa Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin by saying that it is sad to see the opposition, year after year, to use the legislative instruments only as a political weapon against the government and this majority. The Left Block presented a bill equal to what it submitted a year ago, which had votes against this majority and the PS. The CFP has already presented a draft resolution, because it cannot stand behind the rest of the opposition, which is a mix of themes and does not bring anything again—nothing! — forgetting completely, but maliciously, the competitions that have already been or are open for the hiring of professionals for the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u47	Is that the deepest thing you have to say about the patients? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u48	Priority was given to the training of clinicians specialists in general and family medicine, the opening of new family health and continuing care units and could give many more examples, but this does not matter either to the CFP or to the other opposition. What matters is to say wrong by saying wrong, creating alarmism among populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u49	You're the one who creates alarmism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u50	As for PS, he presented a bill with three pages of exhibition of reasons and two articles, limiting himself to revoking Ordinance No. 82 / 2014, which establishes the criteria that allow categorization of the National Health Service establishments. It's not reclassifying, Mrs. Sandra Cardoso, it's categorizing! Did the PS make any proposals? None! Zero! It's an empty idea of a party that wants to be a government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u52	Don't be silly, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u53	The PS forgets that, in seeking to repeal Ordinance No 82 / 2014, the Statute of the National Health Service provides for, since 1993, the classification of institutions and services integrated in the SNS, according to the nature of their responsibilities and the framework of the valences exercised. The PS forgets that the framework provided for in Ordinance No 82/2014 may be revised whenever there is a need to adapt care rates in certain regions of the country, because the planning of the hospital network is not static, it is dynamic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u55	Mrs. Members, I am going to give several examples, from north to south of the country, of specialties that some hospitals do not have and, because of this Portaria, they will have. Neurology, psychiatry, physical medicine and rehabilitation and gynecology are four specialties that the Hospital Santa Maria Major does not have and will have through this portal. Psychiatry and neurology are valences that the Figueira da Foz hospital and the Local Health Unit of the Alentejo Coast do not have and will have. More: Portaria No. 82 / 2014 also defines the minimum number of specialists for the service, clearly benefiting the hospitals of the National Health Service of small size. They thus assume the PS Members, with the proposal to revoke this Ordinance, which will harm a significant set of small and medium-sized hospitals scattered throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u56	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u57	They therefore assume the PS Members, with the proposal to revoke this Ordinance, who will continue to favour the most differentiated hospitals of the major urban centres. They thus assume the PS Members, with the proposal to revoke this Ordinance, which will harm populations who would become served by a broader care profile of the nearby hospitals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These few minutes to make an intervention are frankly insufficient to discuss a matter as complex as this. It's such a complex issue that you guys are talking about. Members and Members of the opposition are trying to make it an easy matter. Let us begin very briefly with the initiative of the Left Block. when we read the legislative initiative, the draft resolution...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u60	The bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u61	Yes, the bill. As I was saying, when we read this initiative we are faced with great perplexity, which is to know what you really want. Do they intend to increase primary health care or to create more basic emergency services? You want something and your opposite. We and the government agree with the creation of more primary health care units. But at the same time do you want to create more basic emergency services? Oh, my God! What means? Like what resources? The gentlemen. Members cannot define themselves and, as has already been said, they will perpetuate your initiatives, regardless of the reality that surrounds you. With regard to the PCP initiative, and despite the exposure of catastrophic and apocalyptic motives, it is nothing that scares us, because since 1981 you have been predicting the end and dismantling of the National Health Service. [[PCP protests.]] Through you, Mr President, I would like to bring to the benches only a statement of the various statements made over time by the Communist Party, always announcing the end of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u62	Listen to the staff of the Medical Order!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u63	You know what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? The National Health Service has not finished, it is becoming stronger and better, despite your apocalyptic visions since 1981. [[PCP protests.]] But I will send these statements through the Bureau if you will allow me. With regard to the initiative of the Socialist Party, which is associated with the so vilipendiad Portaria n. 82 / 2014, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of more and better arguments to attack health policy, they have taken hold of a Portaria which has already been widely explained. It is on the one hand to do what you have never had the courage to do, which was a classification of health units and the distribution of human and material resources by the country and, on the other hand, to establish these guidelines, which will always be available to be reviewed according to the needs and the possibility of concluding agreements, when the need for recourse to other specialties is revealed. In reply to the Member of the Socialist Party who made the speech, Mrs Sandra Cardoso, it was not the Government alone that made this decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u64	What decision?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u65	Under this Ordinance there are nine studies which are public, which, through the Bureau, if you allow me, will be distributed through all the benches. There are nine studies that are public and are on official sites. What happens is that the Socialist Party is not only unable to take the measures it should have taken, namely to make strategic planning of the resources and appropriate distribution of the said by the national territory, such as lack of truth when it says that we want to reduce valence and when it says that there was no increase in resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u66	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to remind the honourable Members. Deputies numbers that are insistently said by the guardianship and banks of the PSD and the CDS: in 2014 alone more than 3208 doctors and 965 nurses were hired. Mrs. Members of the opposition, where do you see a reduction in resources for the National Health Service? Oh, my God! Where do you see that? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Eight national competitions were opened in a total of 1082 vacancies. Where do you see a deterioration in human resources for health in this particularly difficult time? Oh, my God! I will conclude, Mr. President, by saying that...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u68	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u69	...the problem of the Socialist Party, excuse me for colloquialism, is that it does not do or lets it do. This classification and ordination of health units and their professionals should have been done for a long time. You have not done so and now, that there are nine studies of several entities that are supported by this Ordinance, they do not want to apply it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u70	I'm asking the ladies. Members intend to make more speeches, taking into account the time available. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is regrettable that, once again, the PSD and the CDS-PP, instead of presenting concrete measures for solving the problems that your Government has created and continues to create by political options, do not have a single response to give patients who wait more hours to be cared for in the emergency service. It is that the chaos that is installed is the result of the policy options that PSD and CDS-PP have made over the years. What we have done and what we are presenting today again are concrete proposals to solve the problems created by the PSD and CDS-PP. We say that it is necessary to strengthen primary health care and its articulation with hospital care and say that it is necessary to hire the professionals in need. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, tell Mr. Minister of Finance there to unlock the 1000 contracts you have in your drawer! Tell that to Mrs. Finance Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u73	It is necessary to ensure the stability of the teams that make up the emergency services. These teams must be composed of internal doctors but also specialists. The reality of every day shows — and we have already demonstrated it today — the need to quickly reopen the beds that have been closed for the last three years. We can't admit that a cancer patient stays six days in a hospital corridor. We cannot allow patients to stay in the chairs because they have no beds in their respective services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u74	You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u75	I'm done now, Mr. President. These are the situations that we will continue to denounce, but we will also continue to present proposals to solve the problems created by the right policy, by the PSD/CDS-PP policy. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are coming to the end of this debate, which is indeed short in time for the complexity and importance of the subject. However, it is not impossible to draw conclusions. More than most parties were expected, i.e. PSD and CDS. We were expecting much more because we are talking about a situation that concerns the majority of the Portuguese population. We are talking about a concrete situation, which is the chaos that has been experienced in the emergencies in our country. Unfortunately, the sign that you and Mr. Members have given the country that they are completely insensitive, they don't want to know what's going on and they don't even have any solution. That's the truth! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u78	You accuse the opposition, in particular the Left Block, of bringing here for the second time your proposal in relation to the urgency network. [[Protests by PSD Member Elsa Cordeiro.]] Yes, Mrs. Member, it's the second time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u79	After the debate! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u80	Yes, Mrs. Deputy! As I said in my speech, we strengthened our conviction about this because we met with hospitals, we went to the board of directors. [[Protests by PSD Member Elsa Cordeiro.]] Ah! Were you there, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! So, I'm sorry to say, but you don't learn anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u81	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u82	You guys go everywhere but they can't learn anything! But that wasn't even important, it didn't matter at all, it was with you. The problem is that the health of Portuguese and Portuguese is at stake. The problem is that the emergencies are in chaos and you'shut down' and refuse any change! But, well, it's clear,... [[Protests by PSD Member Elsa Cordeiro.]] ... it is clear in front of the country who has proposals, who presents them, who wants them to debate and who is who closes his eyes to a reality that is ahead of everyone, denying a solution to a very serious problem. [[Protests by PSD Member Elsa Cordeiro.]] By the way, just a word about the Portaria that you find extraordinary, the Portaria No. 82 / 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u83	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u84	I begin by saying that it is a hospital reform done by portaria, which is an extraordinary thing, and the Prime Minister came to the House in a fortnight debate, was questioned by the BE bench and couldn't say a word about hospital reform. Secondly and now, I ask: where is the door? Oh, my God! Where's the door application? Where is she? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u85	In the drawer! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u86	Would you like to conclude, Mrs. Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u87	You have not achieved a single support for this application and therefore it was the government that put it in the drawer itself. This port would only have one destination: it's the trash can, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u89	That's why it has to be revoked. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u90	Mrs Teresa Caeiro, did you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u91	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u92	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u93	In order to request that, through Mr. President and the Bureau, not only that list of studies and work that were in the genesis of Ordinance No 82 / 2014, as well as the always apocalyptic forecasts of the CFP, but also that the list of the seven hospital units that have been opened since 2011 be distributed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u94	It's not worth it, we already have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u95	... as well as the nine emergency units that have been improved in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u96	Madam Member, what the honourable Member has provided us, the Bureau will, of course, distribute you with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u97	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u98	Mrs. Helena Pinto, you also want to distribute...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u99	No, Mr. President. It was only for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u100	You have the word, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u101	Mr President, the appeal to the Bureau is that, through you, clarify the Assembly and the Country, because they have now been requested and are going to be distributed data from 2011, about which date of this Ordinance. The Portaria is 2014, it is Portaria No. 82 / 2014. I may be wrong and I would like Mr President to confirm it through the Bureau. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u102	Mrs. Deputy, we will confirm, but all of you. Members can do this through the Internet. In addition, they have the necessary technical means at their disposal. We have concluded this joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 763 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 780 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1262 / XII ( 4. ( a) initiatives which will be voted on tomorrow during the legislative period. We will move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1266 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On prevention of HCV and making treatment more suitable for patients with hepatitis C ( The Greens) and 1264 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a programme for the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis C and measures guaranteeing the independence and sovereignty of the Portuguese State in the area of medicine ( PCP ). The presentation of draft resolution No 1266 / XII ( 4. (a) the Greens shall be made by Mr José Luís Ferreira, to whom I give the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, chronic hepatitis C is currently one of the main causes of cirrhosis and, according to estimates, there are about 150 000 infected, although the vast majority are not diagnosed. A study by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction points to our country as one of the European countries with the highest rates of HCV contamination, which reaches 60 % to 80 % of drug addicts. About 1,000 people die annually in our country following complications with hepatitis C and there is a broad scientific consensus on the inevitability of increased mortality if people with hepatitis C are not adequately treated. It happens that in Portugal we live in the face of a true and frightening paradox: if it is true that we can congratulate ourselves on the revolution that the treatment of hepatitis C has known in recent times, it is also true that we are deeply outraged by witnessing that there are people who die because they cannot make use of technological advancement and have access to the most appropriate treatment. In fact, Humanity has treatment for hepatitis C, which allows shortening of treatment periods, which drastically decreases the adverse effects of medication, and mainly with cure rates between 90 % and 100 %. But despite this revolution in the treatment of hepatitis C, the vast majority of patients in our country have not been given access to the most appropriate treatment for this disease. Until recently, access to such treatment has been very limited and only possible in terms of authorisation for special use, because, despite the government's promises that by the end of last year 150 patients would be treated, the truth is that we arrived at the end of January this year with only 94 patients to be treated, with sofosbuvir. Of course, in view of this scenario, neither the patients nor anyone can understand, and much less accept, this gross injustice that generates revolt. There is cure for the disease but the State, for economic reasons, cannot make it available to all patients. The government says that it cannot be « at all costs», and we say that at least it is strange that the government will come to say something like this because this is unacceptable to all titles! But at the same time, this shows us that the government continues to govern for numbers and not for people, it continues to show us that for the government people have a price and it also confirms that to help the bank is the "cost of what it costs" but to save the lives of people the government already has to account. And this is, at least, a shame! Even so, and considering that the government has recently achieved the agreement with the pharmaceutical company in just two or three days, which, curiously, failed in another year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u104	Ah! Yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u105	... it is important now to ensure that the Government provides the most appropriate treatment for all patients with hepatitis C, so that the cure is within the reach of all such patients. Then, on the other hand, considering also the importance that prevention assumes with regard to the fight against and transmission of HCV, it is necessary that our country be provided with a national programme to prevent and diagnose all patients with hepatitis C. Therefore, these are the purposes of our legislative initiative. We will now expect the parties of the majority to recognize that, with health, it is not the « cost what it costs ». [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PCP and the BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u106	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate to a draft resolution that seeks to respond to two dimensions of the problem that is put here with regard to access to new medicines, in particular medicines that bring clinical advantages. The fact is that all this process in relation to hepatitis C has shown that the fundamental issue underlying this whole process remains unresolved. For the PCP, it is essential that the Portuguese State guarantee its sovereignty and independence also in the area of medicine. The CFP therefore brings here, in this draft resolution, a set of proposals, in particular that the State invests more in public research, in the area of medicine, that the Government actually creates the necessary infrastructures to enable this proposal to be incorporated, but that also allow the production of medicines in our country. We also propose that the Government move forward with the creation of a national laboratory of medicine, and, of course, the Military Laboratory, which already produces medicines for the National Health Service, as a means of ensuring, in fact, our sovereignty and independence. These proposals are fundamental so that the Portuguese State will no longer be in the position of hostage of the pharmaceutical industry in which it is found today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u109	The truth is that our sovereignty and independence are at stake today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u111	They are called into question when we do not have the instruments, the determination and, indeed, the possibility that we can effectively exercise our sovereignty and our independence in this area. The states have left to the pharmaceutical industry the power of research and innovation in the field of medicine and the result is in sight, with the imposition of highly speculative prices for the purchase of medicines that are absolutely essential for the treatment of Portuguese. And this was clear throughout this process and we will certainly be faced with similar situations in the future. In fact, the President of INFARMED himself already said so. In view of this reality, what does the Portuguese Government do? We do not see a single measure that effectively meets and allows to solve this great structural problem, which, as a structural problem, effectively needs structural measures, as we propose. We also place as a hypothesis that the possibility of using a set of international instruments, including allowing the withdrawal of the patent when public health is concerned, in this particular case, of the peoples. We recommend that this solution be analysed and studied. But in this debate, we cannot fail to mention one aspect: the government continues without providing a set of clarifications to the country. There are a number of responsibilities that continue to be resolved and we demand that they be effectively achieved. in this sense, we also consider that if the government effectively wants to eradicate hepatitis C in our country, as announced by the Minister of Health, this will not be possible without the adoption of a plan to prevent and diagnose the hepatitis C virus, as the PCP proposes in the draft resolution we present today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u112	You now have the floor, Mrs Maria da Conceição Caldeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing here today two draft resolutions, presented by the CDU parties, both on the provision of treatment to patients with hepatitis C. [[PCP protests.]] [[Do we deny CDU?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u114	Fortunately, both initiatives are already completely out of date! Indeed, after a long and difficult negotiation process, the government has already reached agreement with the laboratory, thus saving thousands of lives from infected patients. [[It was too late!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u115	But it should be stressed here that this agreement, involving tens of millions of euros, was only possible because of the credibility that the current government has returned to the SNS, thanks to the financial consolidation that it has been targeted in the last four years. The PSD Parliamentary Group therefore welcomes this agreement, which opens the way for the onset of the eradication of the disease in our country, since the aim of the Government is to treat all patients suffering from hepatitis C and not only the most serious cases. [[Protests of PCP and PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] To this end, the pharmacy and therapy committees of hospitals should decide, within five days, on the use of medicinal products.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u116	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u117	to INFARMED it is possible to monitor compliance with this deadline and to ACSS ( Central Health System Administration, I.P. ) the management of the financing model, which will be ensured through a vertical line. The aim is to treat all patients registered in the SNS with hepatitis C and the process adopted will be based on speed, efficiency and transparency. It should also be borne in mind that, under the agreement, the State will fully share the costs of administering these medicines against hepatitis C, completely exempting patients from any burden. I also stress that the payment will be made by a cured patient and not by treatment. That is, the State pays the cure, regardless of what medicines are needed to achieve it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even the laboratory itself acknowledged that Portugal had achieved the best agreement in Europe and what was expected today was that opposition parties would recognize it as well. [[PCP protests.]] The government has faced powerful interests in this process and in taking on the treatment of all patients with hepatitis C has defended national interest and guaranteed the rights of patients who, after all, are as citizens the reason for political action itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u118	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are speaking today of a matter relevant in the field of public health, as, indeed, it has been well-characterized here. It is a relevant matter either because of the impact it has on the lives of people with hepatitis C, or because of the impact it has on their families and health services themselves. We would like to recall that this is a subject that we have been following for a long time and in this context we have tabled a motion for a resolution, a joint initiative by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which was approved in this Chamber in January 2014, which recommends an integrated approach to liver disease in Portugal, going far beyond the issues of hepatitis C. It is not, therefore, a recent concern for us. He could not fail to greet the health professionals working in this area — doctors, nurses and other professionals — who have made an irreplaceable contribution to the advances that have occurred in our country. With regard to the issues relating to the free exemption from the innovative medicine for the treatment of hepatitis C, we would very briefly like to say the following: the measures adopted by the government have allowed to treat more patients free of charge, not only those at risk of life, passing from a universe of hundreds to a universe of thousands of patients—it was important not to forget this. This agreement, more than cure, aims to enable a strategy for the eradication of the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u120	That's a lot more than a right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u121	Mrs. Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, thank you for not interrupting me.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u122	This is a separate part, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u123	I will certainly not do the same when you speak! If it was possible to close this agreement, it was because an innovative risk-sharing strategy was assumed with the pharmaceutical industry and because we have a credible National Health Service, with patent bargaining power and sustainability and that it is not caught by debts to suppliers, as happened in a very recent past.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u124	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u125	Regarding the proposal submitted for the creation of a national programme for the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis C, we would like to say, and to remember, that the Directorate General of Health created the National Strategy for Viral Hepatitis, in conjunction with the National Programme for HIV-AIDS infection. Therefore, the proposal that you have put forward would be redundancy in this area. With regard to the proposal to create a national laboratory of medicine, it is important to remember that the Government has made a relevant commitment in the area of innovation and scientific research, and this demonstrates the law of clinical research.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u126	Is it the government or is it the industry?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u127	Regarding the theme of the participation of innovative medicines, in our view, it is important not to cast the central debate on this issue, a fundamental debate for the current society, and that is the debate on the financing of innovation, about equity in access to health care, about the health costs that we all want to ensure and ensure. in a society in which it is intended to guarantee this same equity, in which legitimacy is sought in the administration of public money and justice in that same administration, with contributions that are from all of us, it is important to make it clear that the means we have are finite and, by definition, scarce.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u128	Sure, but the PS doesn't want to know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u129	It is important to remember and understand that the good and health of any citizen, whether he carries this or any other disease, can never fail to harmonize with the common good and with the sustainability of health systems. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u130	This must be a serious debate. It is a debate which is open and which convenes all, those who have direct political responsibilities and not only society in general. It is essential to assume an extended health pact that enables the achievement of sound and technically well-balanced consensus in the way it is intended, in the future...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u131	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u132	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding. As I was saying, solid and technically well-balanced consensus in the way in which it is intended to finance health in the future and how we intend to cost innovation. This is the debate that is needed, the debate that we have to do without demagogy and we hope to be able to count on all the benches, for the sake of the National Health Service, which we all value, for the benefit of the citizens, which we defend here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u133	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are satisfied with the agreement reached on the medicine that cures hepatitis C, which only sins late. There had to be deaths so that Mr. Minister could do what had to be done. This is an agreement that the Portuguese have the right to, because they have the right to be cured when they are sick. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore agree globally with the draft resolutions under discussion today. It is urgent that the national programme for the prevention and diagnosis of hepatitis C virus should be implemented within the legal framework in force. But it is also necessary to tell the Government and the majority that other countries, such as Spain, which also have financial constraints, Italy, France, England have signed their agreements long before Portugal and with much more sick to treat.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u135	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u136	It was a shame that Portugal had witnessed a sad report of waiting patients and deaths to solve this situation. We wondered why we were the last ones and why we did it only after a dramatic case, when it was no longer possible to wait any longer. Why did we only do so after audible protests by the patients? And to those who have no voice, those who do not reach newspapers and television, what priority will be given to such cases? They say they have negotiated and a good deal has been made. We admit that, because we still need to know a lot of information. However, our question is this: what good negotiation justifies what happened in Portugal? For PS, no justification can do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The responsibility of this government is. This is a very late measure, it was an agreement reached in a hurry. There was a year to negotiate and then it was all over in an apex, pressured by reality and dramatism. It is another late measure that is only taken when the situation is publicly unsustainable. The Portuguese no longer support this permanent instability in the National Health Service. So at the end of this legislature, what is left of this government with regard to health is that it agreed late because it was asleep on the finances and on the priorities exchanged. Indeed, its priorities were always different, it always looked first at balance sheets and reports and accounts and only then it considered people. He always prioritized moderate rates, charges, rationalization, implicit rationing and cuts. Even yesterday, the President of the European Commission said that the troika had sinned against the dignity of the Portuguese. The Portuguese Government cut twice as much of the deal with the troika in health. Are you going to blame me, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u137	That's right! It's a betrayal for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u138	The government has woken up late. Look at the reality that chaos in the emergencies to be reported daily—still yesterday at the Amadora-Sintra hospital, today at the hospital of Santa Maria, a few days ago at the hospital of Beja. They look at access to health care and service in the territory, look at social determinants of health, at the dramatic impact of the crisis, and at the need to respond, to the citizen first, to the user at the center of the system. Is such a delay necessary and the dramatic situations we are facing and which could be avoided? In conclusion, the agreement for this situation was late, the cases were dramatic and the Government's incompetence is a history of hepatitis C and the action of this government in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u139	Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The treatment of patients with hepatitis C is a serious, important problem for families, for patients, for health services, but also for the whole country. It has been the subject of the political agenda on health and still well, because this is how the problems are dealt with when they come to the top and when we are confronted with the real dimension of the problems that many patients still live. We have now been aware of the plan and measures taken by the government in relation to the treatment of patients with hepatitis C. Recent news yesterday also say that there is a new system. It is well noted: there is a computer platform created by INFARMED, where each health professional, the doctor, introduces patient data and there is an obligation to respond within five days. Then there are exceptional authorisations of use, whose response time is mandatory for two days. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what was it that took to get here? Why is it that only now does the government take these measures with regard to the deadlines for hospital decisions? The gentlemen. Members may come to say that the government has had a great deal of negotiation with the pharmaceuticals that it has taken a long time. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, why is this decision now only about the obligation of specific and specific deadlines to respond to patients with hepatitis C? This is because we all know that dramatic cases have to be seen in the public, the case of a patient who waited nine months for the response to his authorization to define — and, indeed, it is true — specific deadlines for responses to authorisations and also for the use of medicines. It is good that this is the case, but we have to ask the government for responsibilities to explain why it was only now that it had the courage to implement these dates. What had to happen to get here? The suffering that had to happen was avoidable! There is also political responsibility here, and the Minister of Health and the Government should have the courage to take it. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, I would like to say, Mr President, using your tolerance, that we are in fact faced with a situation of abuse of a dominant position by the pharmaceuticals that must be called into question, firmly because scientific advances with regard to the cure of certain diseases cannot be the property of anyone, they must be collective property, they must be placed in the service of humanity. That is why legislation needs to be amended, including European legislation. As we all know, there is the directive called the Transparency Directive which regulates the price of medicinal products after approved by the European Medicines Agency in each Member State, but which completely deprotects Member States because it does not give them any mechanism to regulate the prices of these medicinal products, which then promotes these prices that are completely disparate, which make no sense and which must be combated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u141	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u142	Mr President, and with this in conclusion, from the Left Block we will make it possible for the initiatives put forward, because they seem to us to be important contributions, but we do not want to say that there is also a need for an in-depth debate, at national and European level, on the rules that are necessary in relation to the prices of medicinal products. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u143	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the interventions we have heard here from the PSD and CDS-PP, the truth is that there are a set of aspects that we all like to see clarified and that neither PSD nor CDS-PP have clarified. They have not explained how the government can one day achieve what it has not achieved in long months of negotiation with the company to make this new medicine available. They did not also clarify how there were patients who had asked for access to this new medicine and who were waiting for response many months ago, or patients whose request had been approved but to whom this medicine had not yet been made available. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are responsibilities that cannot be single and these must be effectively resolved. It is not because the government has been able to establish this agreement that we are now going to erase everything that remains behind. We don't, and we want to know how this was possible. I also wanted to make another reference. The PSD comes here to say that our project is out of date. I would like to ask if you think it is beyond, for example, the possibility of screening to diagnose people with hepatitis C, even taking into account the characteristics of this disease, which is silent and whose evolution is slow. When they say the government wants to treat everyone, I ask: but who? Are we not going to identify those who already have in order to be treated and to be able to minimize or reduce the transmission of infections? Is this what's out of hand?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u145	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u146	I shall conclude, Mr President. Or is it beyond the urgent need to take steps to solve this structural problem, which has also ended up not addressing and ignoring, which is the fact that the Portuguese State is reliant on the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and we cannot defend our sovereignty and our independence? In conclusion, I would like to say the following: Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, it is true that this resolution was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, which we are accompanying, but our proposal is precisely going to meet the need for screening. After all this time, what was worth ascertaining is the result of that same resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u147	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u148	Mr President, I now end by saying that this is indeed a very serious problem and that there are many options to be taken. But once again, we see that the PSD and CDS prefer to continue to stick their heads in the sand and not to take measures that guarantee the most suitable treatment for all Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u149	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u150	Mr President, I would just like to stress the usefulness and opportunity of these legislative initiatives because they were crucial for the government to act. As we know, it was necessary to have killed people, and Mr Minister must have been confronted in the Health Committee by a patient for the government to come to an agreement. Now, it was necessary to bring this matter to plenary so that the government would appear to have made the medicine available. Mrs Caldeira, the Greens' initiative is not completely exceeded, cannot make that statement, because if you do it by two, one: or you do not read the Greens' project until the end or, then, we already have on the ground a national prevention and diagnosis programme for HCV. Now, since there is no data indicating that this program is on the ground, I must conclude that the honourable Member has not read the project to the end. But there's nothing out there, Mrs. Deputies! We still need to know a lot of things, there are responsibilities that still have to be resolved. In particular, it is necessary to know why there were patients who needed these medicines without their requests being made, why there were patients for whom the request was made but who were waiting for eternity for an answer, and why there were still patients for whom the request was made and authorised but who remained without access to the medicine. It is also necessary to understand how the Government has now reached an agreement only after it has been more than one year's seafaring. Finally, Mrs Deputy, you need to know what the government has been doing to avoid becoming a pharmaceutical hostage. It is necessary to know what the government has done to prevent research and innovation in the area of medicine from being limited only to the pharmaceutical industry. So there is still much to clarify and the initiatives are not even exceeded. Applause of the Greens and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u151	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September 2013 establishes the legal regime of local authorities, approves the status of inter-municipal entities, establishes the legal regime for the transfer of State powers to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities and approves the legal regime of local associations ( ALRAA ). Mr Joaquim Ponte, whom I shall immediately give the floor to, is to be inscribed at this moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores entered this Assembly on 22 December last, with a request for a declaration of urgency which, due to the material impossibility of meeting the deadlines and the regulatory procedures of the emergency process, was not possible. However, it was decided to proceed with its schedule as soon as the scheduled schedules were completed by the end of last January. This is how we come here with a legislative initiative of the Autonomous Region of the Azores which is no longer aimed at correcting an incomprehensible and unacceptable discrimination which, of course, has been created by step, to the municipalities and parish of the autonomous regions. It is therefore intended, with this proposal for a law, that the municipalities and parishes of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores may, like those existing in the continental territory, constitute associations of municipalities and parishes of specific purposes, with the production of effects on the date of the entry into force of Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 in order to ensure the existence, in fact, of associations of municipalities or parishes constituted and in operation at that date. Justice and the law are thus remedied with a failure which made no sense and, for these reasons, the PSD Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this bill. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u153	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed a proposal for a bill by the Legislative Assembly of the Azores on Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, which concerns an amendment to this Act establishing the Legal Regime of Local Authorities, approved the Statute of the Intermunicipal Entities, established the legal regime for the transfer of State competences to local authorities and to intermunicipal entities and also approved the legal regime of local associations. Why this amendment? Because Article 138 ( 1 ). that of its Law excluded the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores from its scope, the rules governing and constituting the legal regime applicable to the associations of municipalities. According to the Legislative Assembly of the Azores, this situation created, and created, an unjustified legal impediment to the creation and maintenance of current associations of municipalities and fregueries of their autonomous regions, making them even in the only regions of the country in which such a circumstance occurs. What is proposed is an amendment to Article 138 ( 1 ). that of this Law, including that its powers are extended both to the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to the Autonomous Region of the Azores. This clarification makes all the sense, not only to bridge this legal absence of the repeal of Law No 45/2008, which has now been applied also to associations of municipalities and parish, but also to confirm the virtues of autarchic associivism, the benefits arising there for the citizens and for the municipalities, for the municipalities and for the regions on the continent and on the islands. With this amendment, which we welcome from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the conformity between the objective and the legislative text is thus verified. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u155	For an intervention, Mr. Jorge Rodrigues Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The importance of the union of island municipalities was a topic already addressed and defended in the Azores has been there for almost 100 years. The eminent historian, jurist and ethnologist Luís da Silva Ribeiro defended the importance of this union as a factor of good governance, the approach between peoples and the defense of general interests. Their conviction was based on the historical basis that the municipalities had been workers of nationality, libertarians of the juice population of the powers of the privileged classes, promoters of progress, creators of the true democratic spirit and that had an increasingly important role to play in society. Luís da Silva Ribeiro also considered the municipalities as schools of civicism, guiding bodies of public opinion, leading the people to take an interest in local collective life. Logically, their proposals and their thoughts clashed with the tacan spirit of the New State’s election, when Salazar submitted the authorities to the interests of the central power and gave no room for citizens to express and develop their spirit of cooperation and association. With the April Revolution, this desire has become a reality in several instances. In the specific case of the Azores, our autonomous regime has been declared as an important element of national cohesion, a factor of progress for regional development, through its different organs, where the authorities take over. The proposal under discussion comes back to the ideas mentioned here and aims, precisely, to overcome the unjustifiable impediment imposed by Law No. 75 / 2013, which did not place the island municipalities on an equal footing with the other municipalities of the continent. In other words, with this proposal for legislative amendment it is possible for the municipalities and parish of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira to overcome the legal impediment not only as regards the creation of associations of municipalities and of specific purposes, but also to keep existing associations in operation. in this sense, the Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the Regional Government of Madeira, as well as in the fulfilment of their constitutional powers, spoke in favour of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, when proposing to the Assembly of the Republic the adoption of the proposed law No 267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) which obtained unanimous approval in the regional Parliament. The Socialist Party welcomes this initiative and will vote in favour of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u157	To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we are discussing today a proposal for a law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which proposes, like the case for the municipalities and parish of the continent, that the local authorities of the autonomous regions also have the possibility of constituting themselves as associations of local authorities for specific purposes. Law No. 75 / 2013, which establishes the Legal Regime of Local Authorities, prevents the churches and municipalities of autonomous regions from being able to freely associate with associations of specific purpose authorities. For the CFP, this matter is very clear: it makes no sense that there are differentiated regimes for local authorities, even putting them in a situation of inequality, because on the continent there is the possibility of forming these associations of authorities while in autonomous regions there is no. However, we do not fail to mention that the CFP has been and continues to be against this Law because it constitutes another part in the subversion of the democratic local power and of disrespect for its guiding principles enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is also a Law that seeks to stop the process of creating administrative regions and empty the municipalities of their competences in key areas, encouraging and creating conditions for essential public services to be delivered to a private business. In any case, for the CFP, all local authorities, municipalities and parishes should have the right to associate themselves according to their will and we will therefore follow this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u159	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a proposal for an amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 establishing the Legal Regime of Local Authorities to simplify. It is a law that has had a controversial process, as we are all reminded, indeed, a process with unconstitutionalities and other things through the middle, which has walked back and forth. But today we have to speak on the very concrete proposal that the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores presents to the Assembly of the Republic, which aims to make a correction to the Law to correct an inequality whose justification for having thus remained in Law No 75 / 2013, even listening to all Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can find you. There is no justification for inequality in relation to autonomous regions with regard to local associations. So it seems to us that it is more a correction to this Law and that it is of all righteousness. Therefore, just as in the Legislative Assembly, in the Assembly of the Republic, the Left Block will vote in favour of this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-19.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no more entries, I should like to close this item on our agenda. I remember that tomorrow's plenary session will start at 10 a.m. The election to the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, which will take place in parallel with the plenary session, will be held, and our agenda will integrate the 15-year debate with the presence of the Prime Minister. Draft resolution No 1182 / XII ( 4 ) will be put to the vote without time for debate. ( a ) — Honors of National Pantheon to the Eusébio da Silva Ferreira ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ), Bill No 777 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Gives the Constitutional Court jurisdiction to assess and monitor the accounts of the parliamentary groups by amending Law No 28 / 82 of 15 November and the fifth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ) and also motion for a resolution No 101 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amendment to Article 38. the Statute of the World Tourism Organization and the Amendment to paragraph 12 of the Financial Rules annexed to the Statutes of the Organization, which were adopted in 1979, paragraph 3. the General Assembly of this Organization ( Resolution 61 ( III ) ), held in Torremolinos. These items will be included in the votes to be held tomorrow at the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 14 minutes.]]
