ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I ask the police authorities to open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 39 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government replace railways with transport concessions ( PS ) which fall to 10. the Commission, 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Participation of the Assembly of the Republic in international parliamentary organizations ( President of the HR ) and draft law No 73 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the exemption from tolls at A22 ( Via do Infante ) ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u3	Let us begin the agenda, the first of which is from the assessment of draft resolution No 26 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends recognition and strengthening of social economy entities ( PSD and CDS-PP ). For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u4	Ex. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Ex.mas Sr.as and Sr.s. Ladies and gentlemen, in what is my first parliamentary intervention in this House, may I offer a special greeting to the President of the Assembly of the Republic and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, wishing to exercise the mandate well. The aim of the presentation of this draft resolution is to reaffirm the importance of the social sector and the social economy as complementary to the economy and above all to combating social inequalities. The social economy is rooted in Portuguese society and is recognized by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 82. o. We must always remember the recognition given by the Constitution to this sector. The social institutions, their employees, the people and families that benefit from them form a set and a dimension that goes far beyond the social, an economic dimension that generates wealth and employment. We frontally reject the view of the protective State that everything controls, disregarding the free initiative based on genuine movements of association, cooperation and solidarity. Civil society is always much stronger and much richer than any guardianship. And it was exactly this vision of a partner state, this vision of a dialogue state that decentralizes and places on policies of proximity with those who best know the communities — and therefore better responds to their needs — that guided our government action over the past four and a half years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u6	To a social emergency situation left by the Socialist Party in 2011, we promptly respond with a Social Emergency Program with the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u7	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u8	We have implemented important reforms for this sector in order to strengthen its role, especially by preparing it for the challenges of the future. From the creation of the Satellite Account to the approval of the Social Economy Basics Act, to the new Statute of the IPSS, to the new Cooperative Code, to the conclusion of a greater number of cooperation agreements, to tax exemptions, to the increase in the number of vacancies in the day care centres, Mrs and Mrs. Members, all this has allowed the establishment of a perfect partnership between the state and the institutions, in which the state is regulator, is financier, it is supervisory and in which the institutions are providing a ready and effective support service to all who need it most. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u9	And all this was absolutely decisive to minimize the effects of the severe crisis in which the PS plunged the country and the Portuguese in 2011. It should be noted that, in a financial situation of great budgetary constraints such as that in which we have lived in the last four years, we have managed to pay the social institutions the debt left by the Socialist Party that had existed since 2008 and which amounted to EUR 5.7 million. Now that we have overcome the crisis, it is necessary to create a social development programme where solidarity institutions have an irreplaceable role. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the Socialist and Communist Government will now continue this immense work that has been done with the social institutions over the past four years. We hope that the Socialist Party will not allow itself to be taught against the social and solidarity sector, and will deal with those who, through ideological radicalism, defend the all-powerful and omnipotent state, because they fear the individual and his organizations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u10	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u11	I will finish, Mr. President. And we hope that this government will continue this strong commitment in the social sector because, we believe, this sector is an instrument of great importance in combating social inequalities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u12	Madam Member, I would like to thank you for your references to the President and I wish you the greatest success for this legislature. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u13	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Allow me, Mr President, that, in my first intervention after 20 years of interval, health particularly and I wish everyone present to carry out a good mandate, as all citizens expect from the electors to the Assembly of the Republic. in a debate on the role of the social economy, I would like to make the Socialist Party's position very clear. The Socialist Party recognises the important role played by the entities involved in the area of the social economy. The Socialist Party, whenever it had responsibilities, deepened the State's partnership and cooperation with social institutions, and did not confuse, as it never confused, this partnership and cooperation with the desponsability of the State of its social functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Social institutions know that they have a defender of their role in the Socialist Party, and they also know that the PS does not instrumentalize them in justifying political options. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u14	The PSD and the CDS are looking for this draft resolution once again to rewrite the history of their government over the past four and a half years. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concept of these two parties about the State to protect versus partner state in the relationship with the institutions does not delete or hide the way they have sought to use these same institutions to deresponsibly the state of their functions and to justify some of the political options. We all remember how they used social institutions as an excuse to send hundreds of workers and social security workers to requalify! As for your version that has gone beyond the troika this took into account the defense of the social state and its institutions, the reality is that today our society has more poor people and families and much less people and families supported, it has more than half of the unemployed without any support, it has too many social institutions strangled between the increase of requests for support, the lower capacity to pay families and the increase of operating costs, as with energy, which should make us realize that a reality as difficult as many Portuguese people live and many institutions do not easily hide. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And because reality is not easily hidden, as they should have learned from the history of the return of the overtax, they once again propose the definition of a social development plan—which has already been plunged into this legislation, because wrong diagnoses do not produce right solutions—has no useful effect. To insist on the policy of impoverishment and attack on the social state, as has happened in the last four and a half years, is something that the Portuguese have said enough! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u15	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. The strategy of the Socialist Party and the Government Programme is as clear as the alternative of the previous Government. Therefore, we intend to launch a national programme to support the social and solidarity economy, modernize and consolidate the sector through administrative simplification mechanisms, encourage the creation of partnerships, support the valorization and training of social entrepreneurs and promoters. This is our commitment, on the basis of which is the principle that the State must always be the maximum guarantor of the social state, as the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic enshrines it in social and cultural rights, that is, in social security and solidarity, in health and education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u17	Mrs Deputies, the Bureau appreciates the references you have made and, of course, wishes you also the best happiness for this court and for the whole of the legislature. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defence and promotion of the social economy have always been in the CDS matrix, which is proud to assume, from the very first moment, that there are three sectors in society — the public, private and social sectors — and that all must have the means necessary for their activity. The social economy now represents 55 000 organisations, 2, 8 % of gross added value and 5, 5 % of paid employment. This third sector is thus distinguished from the others, because it is strongly heterogeneous, being spread throughout the national territory, where, mainly in the most desertification, it is the main employer. because of its non-profit nature, it strongly encourages social volunteering, where thousands of citizens, who, altruistically, intermediated by these institutions, have a very relevant action among the most deprived people. During the economic crisis, caused by the irresponsibility of the then socialist government, Portuguese found in the institutions of the social economy one of the most important and significant responses, which allowed maintaining social cohesion, performing a work of proximity to the most fragile and vulnerable of society. It was because of this perception that the former PSSD/CDS Government supported, from the beginning, these institutions and, for future memory, we cannot allow some measures to be made clear: it concluded cooperation agreements worth EUR 1, EUR 2 billion per year, having benefited from an increase of EUR 5, 1 %, i.e. over € 61 million; it signed more than EUR 2200 new cooperation agreements with future memory, for some measures: it concluded cooperation agreements worth EUR 1, EUR 1, EUR 2 billion per year: it concluded cooperation agreements worth EUR 1, EUR 2 billion per year, having benefited from an increase of EUR 5, i.e.e. EUR 61 million, i.e.e.e.e...e.e..e...e...e..............................................., these institutions and for future memory, and for future memory, for future memory, for future memory, for future memory, for future memory, we can we can we can we can not let we can we can not let we can not let we can we can not let we have have, we can we can we can we have, we have, for future memory; we can not let we have, we have, we have, we have, for some measures: we have, for some measures: we can not let we have, we have, we have to make clear; we have to make clear; we have to the results; we have in this because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because because some measures: some measures: some measures: some measures: some measures: it is to the earlier; it is to the past some measures::::::: it was to the previous some measures:::::: it has made some measures: it has concluded some measures: it has concluded some measures: it has concluded some measures: the previous [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u19	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, because this four-year work, carried out by the previous Government, was indispensable for the social sector and for the population, the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups present this initiative, which aims to recommend to the current government that "do not land" the work carried out in the last few years in defense of the third sector and that it recognise its importance and its indispensableity for the people who use its services. Only by pure ideological prejudice is that the content of this draft resolution is not understood. The Socialist Party has to choose: either step back, joining the understanding of the PCP and BE, or maintain the support line for the third sector. With regard to this matter, we have a very clear position. It's up to the PS to decide what you want to do. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u20	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a fundamental problem in this debate. For PSD and CDS, social policy was the multiplication of public-social partnerships and was the unprecedented increase in inequality. That is why you are not prepared to fight poverty, because there is no fight against poverty without combating inequality. The balance sheet of the Social Emergency Programme, for which they are here today insisting, was basically a transfer of State competences, which resulted in the replacement of rights for favours, and that is why this programme was a gross failure in the fight against poverty. The gentlemen. PSD and CDS members spoke about institutions. I would like to read the balance sheet that a set of institutions — Caritas, Animar, Cruz Red, Instituto de Supporto a Criança –, in addition, having as spokesman the Professor Bruto da Costa, do about this Program. I then quote: "Austerity policies have resulted in an unequivocal worsening of the living conditions of the population and a process of impoverishment of citizens with the creation of new poverty exchanges. The incidence of poverty increased by 8 %, rising from 17 % to 26 %, with a decharacterization of the social state model, tending to make it a state of protection which is complementary to the protection of the private sector.” These civil society institutions also considered: « The approach that existed was an approach marked by an ideology linked to existentialism, marking an unexpected retreat in the idea of social citizenship, recognized constitutionally from 1976 onwards ». For us, as for these social institutions, to fight poverty is to strengthen the social state. For the PSD and for the CDS, combating poverty was to cut the solidarity complement for the elderly to 70,000 beneficiaries and to cut the social income of insertion to 30 000 beneficiaries, with an unprecedented consequence in terms of the worsening of child poverty. For us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, fighting poverty is creating jobs. For the PSD and for the CDS, active employment policies have been translated into persecution for the unemployed as if they were lazy who do not want to work and who do not have enough entrepreneurship and have translated into the placement of thousands of unemployed, at zero cost, in IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) in the services of the local and central administration, through employment-inclusion contracts, having the perverse effect of illegally occupying jobs and creating a gigantic precaution grant assisted by the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]] For us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State must be a guarantor of rights and dignity. For PSD and CDS, cooperation protocols were a way of privatizing social protection services, as they also did in the areas of health and education. In fact, this vision is summarized in the draft resolution itself with the three words that define the functions of the State: co-financing, supervisor and regulator for the PSD and CDS. It is a whole Program, it is a whole view of the world, it is a whole view of who, like you, confuses social economy with Isabel Jonet, confuses citizenship with charity, confuses development with impoverishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u22	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u23	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, if they are really concerned about fighting poverty and if they want a consensus about fighting poverty, then they have a great opportunity today. They do not take refuge in social dialogue, nor are they the echo of those who want to keep poverty waged. Here, today, we are defending the increase in the minimum wage. They have this opportunity to defend the fight against poverty, so it would be good not to waste it. [[P.S. BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u24	Let us defend the fight against poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u26	Mr. President and Mr. Members : Today we are discussing a draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS-PP which is entitled « recommends recognition and strengthening of social economy entities ». Mrs. Members, the title of this draft resolution could be « recommending the deresponsibility of the State in the compulsory social functions of the State itself and which are enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ». This draft resolution reflects, with the vision followed and deepened by the previous Government, the desponsibility of the State in fundamental roles in combating poverty. We know this and this has resulted in various measures, such as, from the outset, in cuts in social support, in family allowances, in social income of integration and in solidarity with the elderly. But it has also been translated into another area which we would like to mention here and which has to do with the proposed requalification—which is, as you say, redeployment encapsated— within the framework of the Social Security Institute, which aimed to send 700 workers to requalification. Among these 700 workers, there were techniques to accompany the cooperation protocols with private institutions of social solidarity. That's why you see it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what was the concern about the rigor and follow-up of these matters when people who had coordination of these projects in the district centers were withdrawn from the services and sent for requalification. We also understand that it is important here to say that the IPSS has a role in the complementarity of the State and that this role can never replace the central responsibility of the State in the creation of a public network of day care centres, in the creation of a public network of support for the age and old age, because we believe that this stems from the constitutional obligations of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u28	What you have done was to degrade the public response by not making progress in relation to what is non-existent, e.g. in relation to the public day care network or the delivery of social security equipment to privates, sending the workers of that institution to requalification. We were still working with workers from public social security workers who were sent to retraining and are now in a much more degraded situation from a labour and social point of view than that in which they were previously. For this reason, we must not fail to mention that this is a defeated draft resolution because the view in it of deresponsibility of the State was a defeat that the Portuguese imposed on the Government of the PSD and the CDS. And it is in such a way a defeated draft resolution that Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS have not been able to read that the first recommendation of its initiative was rejected two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u29	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u30	in this draft resolution, the PSD and the CDS — and have not been given to the work of reading — recommend the launch of a social development programme. Mrs. Members, the draft resolution aimed at the creation of this programme was rejected at the plenary session on 27 November 2015. The 27th of November 2015 must make time for the future. The PSD and CDS government is of the past and the Portuguese don't want that anymore. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u31	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u32	Even for an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u33	Mr. President, I wanted to leave a note to seal the PSD and CDS-PP bench. Whenever the Socialist Party ruled the country, and in this case accompanied by the parties on the left, the truth is... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Don't you like to hear? It's natural! Open... As I was saying, the truth is that the social conditions of the Portuguese have improved every time the Socialist Party ruled our country. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS have a very clear example of your political practice in terms of social economy, which are the social canteens. I don't think they can be proud of that. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u34	Mrs. Members, we are going to enter the second item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 72 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 78 / 87 of 17 February, eliminating the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment for more than 5 years ( PS ), 64 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by limiting the application of the summary procedure to minor crimes ( Procedure 24 ). the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code ( PCP ) and 68 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of Criminal Procedure, repealing the possibility of judging in summary proceedings crimes with a criminal framework of more than 5 years'imprisonment ( BE ). Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in 2012, the XIX Government, first, and the parliamentary majority that supported it, later in 2013, decided to promote the amendment of the summary procedure, starting to bring to trial by a single court the accused arrested in flagrant crime, irrespective of the seriousness of the penalty applicable to the crime, did so, ostensibly disregarding the obtaining of the consensus that the nature of the last ratio of criminal laws should always seek to reflect, but above all, disregarding, clearly, fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is true that there have been times when the PSD, by the hand of its then parliamentary leader, recognized in the matter of justice as "important that the laws which the Assembly of the Republic comes to approve in this field have more support than a majority of governments". Such a display of wisdom had occurred, however, when PSD was not government and volatile as early as PSD and CDS themselves had a majority of government. I recall that the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment for more than five years was adopted with the votes in isolation—but, then, majority—of the PSD and the CDS and with the opposing votes of all other parties. And to the front opposition of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, however, there has been such a forceful and already expectable declaration of unconstitutionality by the Constitutional Court. Moreover, it is strictly following repeated decisions of unconstitutionality which arise from the judgment of the Constitutional Court which operated the declaration of unconstitutionality with general mandatory force under the rule of Article 381 ( 1 ). the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the interpretation resulting from the law of 2013. This declaration of unconstitutionality was, however, as I said above, totally predictable. As the District Attorney General of Évora had already described very well in one of the opinions which accompanied the discussion of Bill No 77 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — and olympically ignored by the majority who approved it — the existence of a summary process, which took place regardless of the seriousness of the infringements, had already been enshrined in the Philippine Orders, by law dated 1603, having been in force for more than 250 years until 1890, when the summary procedure ceased to take place irrespective of the gravity of the infringement and was reserved only for crimes of lesser gravity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thus, it was found that the proposal made by the government in 2012 for the replacement of the process in summary form by a singular court, regardless of the seriousness of the crime—then of the penalty measure—was nothing modern, corresponding, rather, to a civilizational retrogression of more than 100 years, made to barge, as it swoon, in a judgment of unconstitutionality. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Thus, the Constitutional Court judgment No 174 / 2014, published in March 2014, strictly confirmed only the reason for the complaints of unconstitutionality that the opinions of the hearing entities, first, and then the intervening Members had the opportunity to spend in the parliamentary debate. As to the clarity and vehemence of the unconstitutionality declared by the Constitutional Court, they result, in fact, particularly illustrated, in the dialogue that the said judgment operates with the explanation of reasons of the proposal that originated the law that came to be declared unconstitutional. Thus, the Constitutional Court called into question that the XIX Government intended to argue that— and I quote— there are no valid reasons why the case could not follow the summary form of almost all the defendants arrested in flagrantly criminal proceedings. In reply to this, the Constitutional Court replied that « it has no jurisdiction to state that the summary, less solemn and guarantee proceedings may be applied to all defendants held in flagrant crime irrespective of the applicable penalty measure ». In order that no doubt might exist, the Constitutional Court further clarified that the legislative option by the summary judgment must always be limited by the judge's sentencing power defined in accordance with a quantitative criterion of the penalty to be applied, only by accepting, as constitutional jurisprudence has also emphasized, that it cannot be spoken in this case in an intolerable restriction on the guarantees of defence of the defendant. Frankly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be asked whether it was really necessary to expect the Constitutional Court to expressly declare, as it has been done, that « the trial through the singular court provides the defendant with less guarantees than a judgment in the collective court, because it increases the margin of error in the assessment of the facts and the possibility of a less just decision ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, although it has been so since March 2014 — for more than a year and a half, therefore — clearly based on the unconstitutionality of the system of judgments in summary proceedings, passed by the previous majority, the truth is that, while it was and until the last day it was, it has never been available to return consistency to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is not prepared to correct the unconstitutionality declared. However, it does not make any sense to maintain in the Code of Criminal Procedure the admissibility of the singular court for crimes with a penalty of more than five years, when such admissibility no longer exists, because of the judgments of unconstitutionality on it. We want the time of the applicant to be so behind the time of the Constitution and the overwhelming confrontation with the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u36	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u37	As well, they have already tried the Superior Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Ministry in opinions issued on Bill No 685 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), and that the PS recovers today, this project aims « to combine the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the interpretation in accordance with the Constitution carried out by the Constitutional Court regarding the summary procedure. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is exactly what we are proposing to do today: it is therefore to respect and enforce the Constitution that we are called upon. [[Applause from PS and BE]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u38	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention and to present the PCP bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the last revision of criminal laws, promoted by the PSD/CDS Government, the PCP alerted to the particular seriousness of any amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. We refer to the extension of the use of the summary procedure to crimes punishable by imprisonment for a maximum of five years. It then affirmed its complete disagreement with the option taken by the PSD/CDS Government, including in the debate the question of its unconstitutionality, in particular by breach of the guarantees of defence of the defendant provided for in Article 32. the Constitution. In October 2013 the PCP presented and led to the discussion of Bill No. 357 / XII ( 2. ( a) precisely with a view to amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, at a time when there were already unconstitutional decisions which confirmed the fears we had expressed, making clear the need for legislative amendment. The first question that we can put to this House at the moment when we are discussing this is: why only now? Indeed, when the debate on amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure had been sparked by several banks, including that of the CFP, the unconstitutionality of these rules, despite the views of consulted entities that alerted this situation and despite the fact that there were already concrete decisions of the Constitutional Court in the context of concrete constitutional supervision, neither did the majority of the PSD/CDS agree to revise its position and insisted, to the end, to maintain the unconstitutionalities in the Code of Criminal Procedure, despite these, in the specific cases raised by the Constitutional Court, that they had been declared unconstitutional and that they had been disauthorised by this way. We have had to reach this legislature and the PSD and the CDS have lost the majority in order to have the possibility of conforming the Code of Criminal Procedure with Article 32. the Constitution of the Republic. It is true that, in addition to this initiative, the CFP has, over the years, presented several proposals for amendments to criminal laws, particularly the Code of Criminal Procedure, in order to introduce greater procedural speed in the trial of minor crimes. Yes, because we are sensitive to the need for justice to be speedy. We are all aware that justice, when it is not applied in due time, when it is not applied in good time, becomes unfair. Therefore, one of the issues that people are most concerned about is that justice actually works, and it works in a reasonable time, in a useful time. We share this concern, but what we think is that procedural rules should in fact be adopted that achieve these objectives, but without incurring violations of the Constitution by violating the fundamental rights of the defendants in criminal proceedings. An example of this concern was the presentation of Bill No. 266 / XII ( 1. ( a ), containing a set of proposals for amendment to the special procedures—summary, short and summary—in order to create conditions for their most frequent and widespread use, ensuring greater speed in the judgment of minor crime. We then affirmed that those proposals had, on their basis, the idea that speed in the administration of justice is a fundamental condition of the realization of justice itself, and that the functioning of the courts, particularly in the context of criminal justice, was a determining condition for the discredit of the justice system in the eyes of the citizens...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u41	...and to consolidate a feeling of impunity and impotence of the judicial system in combating crime. Despite the deepening of the discussion on these issues, particularly as a result of the reforms that have been carried out and the problems that have resulted from them, and despite the widespread acceptance that the CFP proposals have deserved among the judicial operators, the options of the successive parliamentary majority have gone contrary, and that is why we are still in the situation in which we are. The result is seen not only in the declaration of unconstitutionality of the regime approved by the PSD and the CDS, which motivates the presentation of this initiative, but also in the numerous difficulties that continue to occur in the justice and functioning of the courts. By not abdicating the proposals we have been presenting over time on the subject of special cases and reaffirming their validity, what the CFP now proposes is only the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure on summary proceedings, by bringing the text of the procedural law back to its previous conformity and thus recovering compatibility with the constitutional text. That was the position we assumed, already in the past legislature, with the delivery of Bill No. 690 / XII ( 4 ). a ), and that is the way we now intend to resume with the presentation of the bill that today is submitted to the assessment of this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u42	To present Bill No 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mr Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the Left Block that is now analyzed and discussed represents an absolutely necessary and essential step in ensuring respect for constitutional requirements, a task which, as it is public, PSD and CDS, in the various spheres of government, were not able to carry out in the previous legislation. with regard specifically to justice, the former right-wing majority decided to address, once again, the Constitution with the amendments made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, in particular by amending the summary procedure. Making the flagrant sole and exclusive criterion crime for submission to trial, in the form of the summary process, of most crimes, PSD and CDS, in an authentic demagogic drift, enemy of the legislative rationality that must always preside over the definition of any criminal policy, have chosen to distort the nature and history of the summary process. It is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, if it is true that this specific form of process has been thought and justified, in part, to respond to the increasingly pressing requirement to ensure procedural speed, was also idealized, specifically designed for cases of small and medium-sized crime. However, with the elimination of the criteria of the five years of abstractly applicable imprisonment, previously cumulative criterion with the occurrence of the flagrant crime, an extension of cases which could be judged in this particular form of trial was carried out, which is absolutely contradictory not only with the nature and history of the summary process, but also with the constitutional precepts guiding our criminal policy. This right-wing option has undoubtedly set up a fundamental rights settlement, because it offers the defendant judged in a singular court objectively less defence guarantees. A full state of law and a democratic society cannot, for example, allow or admit that a crime of murder can be judged in the form of a summary process, where the right to defend the defendant is limited in multiple aspects. More: with the legislative amendment carried out by the previous parliamentary majority, the principle of procedural speed has been distorted, I now felt not as a condition of the effectiveness of the juridical-penal system, but rather as an expression of pure populism which wishes to erroneously suggest the incompatibility between speed and the guarantee of a fair and equitable process for all procedural subjects. In addition, it follows that the Constitutional Court declared in three successive decisions the unconstitutionality of Article 381. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the wording given to it by the law passed in 2013 by the previous parliamentary majority. Since, in these circumstances, unconstitutionality acquires general mandatory force, it is also urgent, in this sensitive area, to restore constitutional legality violated by the right. That is the first meaning of the bill presented by the Left Block. To this end, the Left Block essentially recovers the regime prior to Law No 20 / 2013 of 21 February, that is, subjecting to trial, in the form of summary proceedings, the small and medium crime committed in flagrant crime, and only that. With the approval of this legislative initiative it is the rule of law which is being strengthened. Returning the Portuguese criminal process to the 21st century is what we propose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u44	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects brought to the discussion today necessarily refer us to the year 2012 and to Bill No 77 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ), which was inspired by Law No 20 / 2013 of 21 February. The amendments made by that Law, and where matters are being discussed today, have reached more than 40 articles and contain an ambitious and necessary amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to the adequacy of the need for speed and effectiveness in combating crime and defending society and, on the one hand, the guarantee of the rights of defence of the defendant. And these amendments, as we well know, were much wider than the possibility of summary trial for crimes punishable by imprisonment over five years. As it is relevant for this debate, I recall that the amendments covered the scope of jurisdiction in the application of coercion measures, with limitations, the possibility of the investigating judge, at the stage of the investigation, to apply coercion measures other than that required by the Public Prosecutor's Office, nor is it limited by the position of the Public Prosecutor in relation to the quantity and mode of implementation of the coercion measure. The amendments covered the possibility of safeguarding the defence rights of the defendant and, in particular, the right to silence, the statements made by the defendant in the preliminary stages of the investigation being used at the trial stage. As the experience has shown, the almost total indisability of unnecessary use of the statements given by the defendant in the pre-trial stages led, not rarely, to situations generating social indignation and misunderstanding of the citizens regarding the justice system. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is not fair enough; it has to be seen and perceived as fair! The lack of understanding of the exercise of justice by society generates the conviction of injustice and undermines the confidence of citizens in the effectiveness of the fight against crime and in the judiciary. A change to the level of availability was therefore required in order to ensure the effective exercise of the claim made by the defendant in the pre-trial stages, duly accompanied by a strengthening of procedural guarantees, in particular in order to ensure the effective exercise of the right to silence and the assistance of the defender where the declarations are subject to subsequent use, together with the express warning to the defendant that, if he does not exercise his right to silence, the declarations made may be used in the proceedings in the future, although subject to the principle of free assessment of the evidence. All this accompanied by an audio-visual or audio record, only documentation is allowed in another way when those means are not available, with obvious gains of time and reliability of what has been said. The amendments also covered measures relating to the production of testimonial and expert evidence, as well as the moment of indication of evidence by the prosecution and defence or even the notification regime. The amendments also covered the summary procedure and the admissibility of appeals to the Supreme Court. In a timely manner, I recall the determination of irrecursibility of the judgments applying fines or imprisonments not exceeding 5 years, as well as the acquittal judgments in relation to decisions of 1. the sentence of fine or imprisonment not exceeding 5 years. In short, the scope of the appeal to the Supreme Court was thus defined, preserving its intervention in cases of greater seriousness. The amendments included amendments to the provisional suspension of the proceedings, with particular impact on cases of driving of drunk vehicles, which is one of the factors with the greatest weight in road fatality, determining that there can be no provisional suspension of the proceedings in respect of hazardous crimes for which an accessory penalty of inhibition of driving motor vehicles is legally provided.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u47	These modifications also covered, and of this no one spoke, the very summary process itself and, finally, the possibility of submitting the defendants to swift judgment in the event of flagrant crime, wishing to comply with the assumption of prompt and timely justice, which would contribute to the sense of justice and social calm.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u49	However, without prejudice to the merit of the measure for the purposes to which this last matter was intended — the possibility of judgments in summary proceedings for crimes punishable by imprisonment for more than five years — was the one which caused controversy of constitutionality, and I say 'dispute' because there was no unanimity of views on the subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u50	But it is a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u51	In fact, I recall the caution with which the rapporteur of the proposal, Mrs Isabel Oneto, delivered her opinion on this project, referring to her doubts, without the certainty that some parties are now carrying.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u52	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u53	To our conviction of constitutionality and merit, other voices, both deserving of credit and those opposed to us, have joined together. Faced with a declaration of unconstitutionality, neither unanimous—I repeat, nor unanimous! — as regards a certain interpretation of the rule governing this matter, it should be said that, we agree, Mrs and Mrs. Members, not Law No. 20 / 2013 caused chaos in the courts, placed magistrates against judges or threatened and struck indiscriminately accused as the declaration of unconstitutionality threatened social peace or raised doubts about the application of the rules contained in the Criminal Procedure. In other words, your reforming enthusiasm is worth zero! Legal certainty, interpretation of standards, stability of the legal-penal order, social peace or the perception of justice by judicial operators or citizens is strictly the same with the approval of these projects or without them. If that's all they have to show is little or nothing and they don't count on the PSD to follow so little ambition. We are and will be available to discuss ways of improving the proper application of justice, with the speed that the word 'justice' implies, in respect of the rights and guarantees of the defendants, but also in respect of the victims and the injured, who have the right to see the processes dealt with and judged in good time and thus contribute to better understanding and understanding of justice by the citizens. For reforms, real reforms, they contain with us in the PSD tradition which, as a party to the political centre, has already given evidence. For creative destruction processes without ambition or prospects of real change, the left can well be joined, although radical in their similarities, transformed now into what someone called in other circumstances such as "the flour of the same bag"! Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as today's polls reflect, 'after us will come...', and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen know the rest. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u54	Two Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I would like to know how you would like to respond, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u55	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u56	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u57	Mr President, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, first of all I would like to convey to you my solidarity with the difficult and thorny mission that you have to face, now in your speech, which was to try to speak of all matters until the fourth minute of your intervention less than the only one being discussed, which is that of declaration of unconstitutionality with force in general following three judgments, by unconstitutionality, of the Constitutional Court on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This debate is not about the statements of the defendant, it is not about the testimonial, it is not about the expert evidence, it is not about notifications, it is not about the provisional suspension of the proceedings. This debate is about the question that was initially controversial and that controversial could continue to be. You will continue to be entitled to your opinion, I will be entitled to my opinion, any lawyer will have the right to yours, but in a legal order such as ours, the final word belongs to someone, and you have competed with the Constitutional Court. And the Constitutional Court gave the final, final, clear and unequivocal word that the law passed in the previous legislation is unconstitutional. In view of this, I put the question to you, which is unique and which is brought to this debate: we do not intend to debate a comprehensive reform of the judicial system, we do not intend to debate here the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, we only want to correct the error, correct the unconstitutionality which the previous majority approved in the past legislature. In the face of a declaration of unconstitutionality with general force, before the opinions made by the Superior Council of the Public Ministry and the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, the enforcer of the law, the judge, who says that he sees all the advantage in the approval of this law, because it is clarifying, because it actually brings the lack of rest in this matter, I ask: how does the PSD take refuge in a merely tactical position and refuses to see the evidence published in the Journal of the Republic, published and advertised in all courts of this country, that the law they passed is unconstitutional and that does not have any correction? And since it speaks of tradition, to conclude, I would rather see the famous tradition that the PSD had, and well, of liberalism in criminal matters, of the good school of Professor Figueiredo Dias and of the good school of Professor Costa Andrade who unfortunately arranged a drawer, lost and still did not find again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u58	To reply, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u59	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I thought it would cost me little the exercise I did, because I also thought it was quite proud that I was rereading a number of important measures of the criminal procedure on which I do not hear either. What I hear about the bench on the left is on the question of the Constitutional Court. It is true that until today we have not heard anything about reform, we have only heard about the decision of the Constitutional Court. As you know, and I know you know, the Constitutional Court does not declare the unconstitutional rule. As you know, and I know if you know, the Constitutional Court declares on three concrete issues a certain interpretation, in relation to the norm, to which it does not comply. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u60	More: if you read the judgment, you will certainly have also read that even within the Constitutional Court this opinion was not unanimous. So we are not talking about something that is completely in the stratosphere of legal thought. He has certainly read the explanations of vote on this issue, and I propose, indeed, exits that can improve it. The PSD is available to find ways to continue this path, eliminating what can be eliminated, in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision ; for which we are not available it is for the destruction of what is done without any new proposals. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u61	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u62	Mr President, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, in fact, the mission of the Member's task today is not easy and what he mentioned here raises some questions about the position taken by the PSD today. First, you tried to disagree, talk about other things and then say "but you don't talk about these things! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No, we're talking about what's being discussed. What is scheduled is the discussion of these legislative initiatives and it is about them that we pronounce ourselves. Mr President, in order not to say much about these diplomas, you have to say that these initiatives do not talk about a number of things. Yeah, no! Other things have been discussed at the right time; now we are talking about this. Well, what are we talking about? We are actually talking about correcting the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to comply with the Constitution, taking into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And here, Mr President, the issue of decisions being taken unanimously is not at least relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u63	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u64	Not at all! The decisions amending the Code of Criminal Procedure here have not been unanimously adopted either; and even if they had been, the decisions of the courts are no less binding because they are not taken unanimously. There is no need to lose for 13 to 0 at the Constitutional Court so that there is a declaration of unconstitutionality! The defendant, who is condemned by a collective court, cannot say: "I was not condemned, because there was a judge who voted against the decision! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” If he's convicted, go right inside. Therefore, the binding nature of the decision does not depend on the number of judges voting it, it depends on a majority. He said: 'What is at issue here is a certain interpretation of the Constitutional Court in some cases'. No, sir! What is at stake here is the Constitution rule that determines that, after three decisions of unconstitutionality in concrete supervisory processes, the norm is declared unconstitutional with general mandatory force. That's what we're discussing! These rules in question are unconstitutional and this has been declared with general force by virtue of decisions taken by the Constitutional Court in the context of concrete supervision. This is actually what we're talking about! But, Mr President, the PSD comes here with the position that in order for justice to be more expeditious, it is necessary to adopt measures which are unconstitutional and which violate fundamental rights of the defendants. Now, Mr President, we believe that we should discuss ways of making justice faster with respect for the Constitution and with respect for fundamental rights. I had the idea, but the honourable Member will either confirm or deny that the position of the PSD on this matter is that, despite the declaration of unconstitutionality of the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, adopted by VV. Ex., with general force, you are here to insist on the mistake and to say that it is an embarrassment on the left to try to change these measures. Is this the PSD position? I did not want to believe, because I expected, however, a somewhat more constructive position on the part of the PSD, even though we know the past they have in this matter, which is not very dignified. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u65	To reply, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u66	Mr President, Mr António Filipe did not want to believe, but I always believe in everything about the CFP and therefore nothing surprises me. In any case, I must say two things: first, the reference we make to the fact that there are dissonant voices is just to erase the image that it was completely evident to any jurist who was unconstitutional. That's not true! Nor was it true in the Constitutional Court that there was such evidence; secondly, as you know, the unconstitutionality of these rules has not been declared by force in general. It wasn't! You know it wasn't! What we have mentioned was that, firstly, the concerns that exist in this plenary as regards the possibility of a defendant being confronted with these rules do not exist, in view of the change that has occurred. So we can all have that tranquillity. What I invoked was the lack of a reformist spirit and the lack of will to change something and not just to destroy what is done. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u67	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u68	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u69	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u71	Mr President, I ask you to distribute it by Mr. Members, in particular the PSD, the Constitutional Court's judgment No 174 / 2014, the decision of which states that « In these terms, it is decided to declare the unconstitutionality of the rule of Article 381 by force of law as a general requirement. the, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the wording introduced by Law No 20 / 2013 (... ) ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u72	Mr President, the Bureau will pursue this. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u73	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall try to be clear on this matter. First of all, I would like to say that what we have here today is, regardless of all the more or less legal arguments, a political decision by the three parties with, once again, three different proposals, but all in the same sense, to do this justice, to eliminate a legal regime, which was approved in the previous legislature and which is in force. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, I would like to tell you that the CDS-PP has long defended this legal regime and this solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u75	Regardless of what we may be discussing here, we have not changed our mind in the past and we have not changed our mind today. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And we do not change our opinion for a very simple reason: we believe that this legal regime of admissibility of summary proceedings allows: first, greater speed in justice, general concern of justice, the Public Ministry, judges and almost all justice actors; second, giving security forces a motivation, thus raising the morale of the security forces—and there is nothing worse for the morale of the security forces than to find that certain processes are not judged, or there is no solution, or there is no answer, or crimes have no consequences — and third, to increase the level of confidence of citizens in justice. That is why we are in favour of this regime. On the other hand, and I have not heard mention throughout this debate, and for us this is an essential issue, in which cases these summary procedures apply. We can talk a lot about the guarantees, the concern about the guarantees, the safeguards for those who committed crimes, the defendants, the criminals, we can talk about all of this, but it is appropriate to tell the truth that these processes apply only to cases of flagrant crime, that is, to cases where a person is being held by the security forces while committing a crime. Only in these cases should it apply and this should be sufficient guarantee for us from an inclusive constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u77	This is because they are cases, of course, in which the evidence is very strong. So I would like to tell you very clearly that, in our opinion and in our view, what you are preparing to do is not a step forward, much less a civilizational advance, is a retreat and a bad retreat from the legal point of view. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u78	If we want to, let us go to the questions that have been raised here, particularly by Mr Delgado Alves, who told us at some point that, finally, regardless of three specific controls, and on this there is no doubt, they lead to the conclusion that we know. Now, more than to say that this is just a question of constitutionality or of hiding ourselves, even politically behind the Constitution, is to say what we want and what we believe politically.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u80	You've always been against me. You've been against before, you've been against for and you're against now. So they assume that they are against it, because, if this is not the truth, if you are in favor of more swift justice, if you are in favor of summary judgments,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u81	...then solve the problem and this problem has a solution. You, who now spend the days remembering that they are a majority, use the majority, understand and arrange a solution for this matter, because the solution is very obvious: just read the decisions, just read the judgment here referred to to to to realize that the essential issue in this matter is that of the court with a singular jury. This is essentially the issue that the Constitutional Court raises, rather than the criminal or any other framework. If crimes with a certain gravity cannot be judged by a singular judge, because he has less guarantee, then of two, one : or do what you are doing, which is to throw out this regime, or improve the regime in order to allow these summary judgments to be made with a collective court. It was the right way, it was the right solution, we would be willing to do so, but you don't want to, just want to revoke. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Members, even here there are contradictions, because we know that, in a summary case, the maximum time limit for preventive detention is 120 days and that, if these procedures are for ordinary proceedings, the deadline passes to the possibility of more than one year of preventive detention. Therefore, even from the point of view of guarantees, there are contradictions. And there is an obvious contradiction, which is that we know that crimes such as kidnapping or certain types of murders can be judged in these summary proceedings, with a singular judge, and that, for example, a crime of terrorism can no longer be judged in summary proceedings. And this is where I sincerely believe, it is an opinion that we defend with great conviction, that you, contrary to what you think, are not going for history, you are going against history.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u82	Exactly! [[Protests by PCP MP Jerome de Sousa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u83	What we have heard, even the socialist leaders and the former socialist ministers, not on this particular subject, is that the threats we are facing today, such as the threat of terrorism, would involve a change and an advance even to the question of obtaining evidence, which we have already discussed, in order to make justice faster. Is there a guarantee problem? Yes, sir, this would be resolved by changing, for example, the component of the jury. You don't want that, you want to eliminate the whole regime. You don't want a faster justice, you're thinking of a certain laxism in relation to crime, but you're forgetting that we have to protect criminals, not criminals, but victims, and this, yes, should be our main concern. So we will not take a step forward, we will not change the regime and simply throw it away is a mistake, from our point of view, and it is a colossal mistake. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u84	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u85	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, the first note that becomes clear to everyone is that the CDS insists on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u86	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u87	It's not about saying CDS disagrees, it's free to disagree. But in a society like ours, in which a democratic rule of law is in force and in which the decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding and binding on all, I reiterate, there are three decisions in concrete control and there is a declaration with general force in a process of abstract supervision initiated by these three decisions. Therefore, there are no three, there are four decisions of the Constitutional Court, the last of which with compulsory general force. But this obstinacy is maintained, this theimosia, which is no longer virtue, because it is no longer a matter of coherence, it is a matter of insisting on what is not possible, unless the CDS wishes to propose a constitutional review to remove the procedural guarantees, which are also part of the genetic code of our democracy. And the problem is not just about collective training. The problem, and the judgment emphasises it very clearly, also concerns the form of process, and the form of process is also an indispensable and guaranteed dimension for the defence and protection of the possibilities of defence of the defendant, which is also called into question by the maintenance of the regime, which, I would stress again, is no longer in force. The Constitutional Court has already eradicated it from our codes, what we need to do is to adapt the legislation accordingly, in fact,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u88	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, what we need to do is to adapt the legislation accordingly, in addition to what has been suggested to us, what has been proposed and validated by the Council of Magistracy and the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, which law enforcers well understand the need for appropriateness. And I answer the question that you asked me: we are against, we are against, and we will continue to be against this change because it translates a popular drive, which is not a guarantee, of the necessary protection that our legal order has to give, and, therefore, to it we will continue to oppose, we are sorry that the PSD has been dragged by this drive to which the CDS forced it in the previous legislature and that it has lost the north of its usual tradition in criminal procedural matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u90	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u91	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u92	Mr President, just to say that I would very much like to reply to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, whose question I am grateful for, because it was very nice and would give me an opportunity to clarify it again, but unfortunately I do not have time, and I have to add nothing more.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u93	As you will understand, I could not fail to give Mr Pedro Delgado Alves the floor to ask for clarification, that is the practice of the House. Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u94	Mr. President, it was my intention to ask Mr. Telmo Correia a question, but, as he does not have time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u95	You can give me time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u96	I make a brief statement. Mr Telmo Correia made a mistake, which was to say that we wanted to throw out a legal regime. Whoever threw him out was the Constitutional Court, it wasn't us. The declaration of the standard with mandatory force general has, of course, this effect, we will not throw anything out. But there is a fundamental question, which is the following: the accusation they make us is valid for the Constitutional Court. That is, when they say that when we defend procedural guarantees from the defendants, we are defending the criminals, this is also valid for the Constitutional Court's declaration of unconstitutionality. The gentlemen. Members also believe that the Constitutional Court is defending criminals because it seems to them that there are constitutional guarantees. I know you have always been against the Constitution, but for the CDS all procedural guarantees is to defend criminals. So, on the limit, what you were defending was that there were no procedural guarantees, then justice was more unfair than it was, but it was certainly speedy, and, by the way, that is your only concern.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u97	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u98	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. In fact, there must be a great deal to say now — those who have cut wages to the elements of the security forces — that reducing citizens' guarantees will help to increase their morale. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] You mustn't be ashamed, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u99	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u100	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u101	Mr President, since Mr António Filipe used the expression 'disarray', I intend to use the regiment figure of defending the honor of the bench. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u102	You have the floor, sir. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party must get used to democracy, be patient. Mr António Filipe, your expression is abusive and offensive, as you know it is not. As you know, and you know well, that is not true, because what happened, when the country was led to bankruptcy, by this bench with which you are now in friendship, and when the security forces were left with a status without having been left the necessary money to correspond to that status — which was obviously a huge attack on the credibility of the security forces — was that we, the majority of the height, the government of the height, managed to have one of the areas where there could be no cuts and, in any way, to comply with that status, protecting the security forces, was precisely the area of the internal administration, which was even exceptional from that point of view. So that is not, in any way, rigorous in its form, I must tell you. On the other hand, I also mean that one thing has nothing to do with the other. Mr President, we are not confronting the Constitutional Court, let us make this clear. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves was nice when he didn't get it, he didn't want to understand either, but what you're here about is whether or not we want to have this regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u104	Mr. Deputies, what you are doing is not a defense of honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u105	Mr. President, I am concluding. It is possible to have this regime by changing the regime and not by changing the Constitution. That's what we're proposing, but you don't want it. It's as simple as this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u106	Before giving the floor to Mr António Filipe, in order to explain, I inform the House that he has just entered the Diplomatic Corps Gallery, Mr President of the Republic of Ireland, accompanied by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, for which I would like a greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mr António Filipe has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u107	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia was offended because we believe that there must be a lot of discharge in order to, after cutting the salaries to the elements of the security forces, say that they want to reduce citizens' guarantees in criminal proceedings, because this increases the morale of the security forces. I think that's even offensive to the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u108	Ask them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u109	That is not the image I have of the Portuguese security forces professionals, who consider that the less rights the citizens have, the more their morale increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u111	These are not the security forces professionals I know in my country. The gentlemen. Members said that defending the existence of guarantees in criminal proceedings is to defend criminals who think they do not offend anyone! We should be offended by these statements. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u112	This is because, Mr President, what we are doing here is to comply with the Code of Criminal Procedure with that which was the decision of the Constitutional Court in this matter—and it was the declaration of an unconstitutional norm with general mandatory force. The gentlemen. Members may disagree with the Constitutional Court, they may feel that the Constitution should not be what it is, but you must comply with that decision. And the fact is that what you want to see applied is not applied by the courts, because it has been declared unconstitutional, with general force. Therefore, you, once again, here too, refuse to face reality and are clearly in a state of denial. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u113	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that the summary procedure applies and addresses cases of flagrant crime, it is also true that it has been idealised and thought about the small and medium-sized crime. Therefore, by withdrawing this criterion, the range of crimes liable to be judged in summary proceedings is clearly extended. This is not the way to guarantee the right to defence, as, moreover, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly referred and stressed, in terms of the right to defend the defendants, in a single court, without investigation proceedings and without investigation proceedings. Therefore, to the parliamentary bench of the PSD, which says that there is no unanimity in this interpretation, I would like to remind you that the interpretation is of the Constitutional Court and unanimity refers only to three decisions of the Constitutional Court, in addition to the strong criticism that this option has generated from other quadrants in the area of justice. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the right has a lot of pruritus with the Constitution, but in fact they will have to get used to what the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is to respect. [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u115	The joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 72 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PS ), 64 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( BE ), we turn to the assessment of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October, which is the first amendment to Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August 2009 establishing the special regime of protection in disability, and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 265 / 99 of 14 July ( amended by Decrees-Laws No 309 - A / 2000 of 30 November, and 13 / 2013 of 25 January ), which creates the complement by dependency[ Parliamentary assessments 7 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) ( BE) and 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: People with chronic diseases need a special support regime. Many of these people acquire incapacities very early, and therefore very short-contributory careers. The decrease in the guarantee period for access to a disability pension and the increase in the annual rate of pension training were the forms found, and with which we agree, to compensate for the abrupt interruption of professional activity. The law of 2009 provided for the establishment, within 60 days, of a specialized committee which would define the clinical criteria for the determination of diseases likely to be covered by the special disability protection regime and also to assess and reassess on a triannual basis the list of diseases covered by the special disability support regime. This committee was formed only four years later. A committee whose elements are unknown and which has produced a report that no one has ever seen, although has been requested twice by the Left Block. It is based on this secret report, produced by clandestine elements, which arises at the initiative of the previous Government, new legislation on the special disability protection regime. What has brought back this law of 2015? The disappearance of the list of diseases covered by the special scheme; the conditions of access to the pension, which became the requirement of a situation of permanent disability for work that clinically is expected to evolve into a condition of dependence or death within three years; the evaluation of this disability through a new National Functional Table. So let us look at each of the points. The fact that there is no list of diseases could be an advantage, allowing for extension to other diseases, if access to the system was not restricted. But this restriction is made in the worst way, by defining as a condition of access the existence of a permanent incapacity for work and that in addition it is foreseeable that it will evolve into a situation of dependence or death within three years. In addition to the immoral and morbid nature of demanding someone to prove that he dies within three years, there will be no doctor to make such a prognosis, as Mr. Bastonário of the Medical Order said. The restriction is made in the worst way, because many chronic diseases cause chronic pain, fatigue, joint stiffness, cognitive changes at concentration and memory level, which does not necessarily result in a dependency situation but which, in fact, affects the ability to work. As for the evaluation, the experimental use of the National Functional Table, created in 2014 is proposed, when there is not yet a report that should have been published in July 2015, on the period of experimental implementation that will have elapsed in 1. the quarter of 2015. It seems to us to be more experimental when you're dealing with people's lives. While this Table is not evaluated, it cannot be decisive for the evaluation of disabilities. Valuing the old principle of « nothing about us without us», the Left Block made a public hearing last week involving dozens of people with chronic diseases and association representatives of patients with diseases as diverse as ataxia, HIV/AIDS, ankylosing spondylitis, Parkinson, poliomyelitis, fibromyalgia, multiple sclerosis, intestinal cancer, neuromuscular diseases, diabetes, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. What we verified was the unanimity of the participants in the condemnation of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u117	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u118	Many of these people acquire incapacity very early, so they have very short contributions careers. The reduction in the guarantee period for access to a disability pension and the increase in the annual rate of pension training were the forms found. Thus, the Left Block welcomes the presentation by the PS, the Left Block and the PCP of proposals which include a transitional regime and which alter the nature of this Decree-Law, providing for a deadline for its review and participation of people with chronic diseases and their organizations in the search for better solutions. for our part, we will contribute to this elaboration from some priorities: to extend the special regime to all chronic incapacitating diseases, through the use of more comprehensive criteria; to determine the incapacity through an evaluation performed or defined by physicians specialists in the pathology under consideration, which takes into account the characteristics and specificities of each chronic disease and which values the opinion of the assistant physician;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u119	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u120	I will finish now, Mr President. We also consider it a priority to provide for partial incapacity for work, serving the pension to compensate for the loss of income resulting from this situation. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The special disability protection regime applies - when caused by rapidly evolving and early invalidating diseases, generators of permanent disability for work, including persons with disabilities caused by family paramyloidosis, Machado-Joseph disease, AIDS, multiple sclerosis, cancer forum disease, amyotrophic lethal sclerosis, Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease. The former PSD / CDS government published Decree-Law No. 246 / 2015, invoking the objective of ensuring greater coverage of the universe of potential beneficiaries. However, with the argument of resorting to a new concept of permanent disability for work, which determines special disability, what the previous PSD Government did was to extinguish the list of diseases considered disabled for the purpose of awarding the special disability pension, significantly hampering the conditions for access to this benefit. With this decision, only patients who are permanently incapacitated for work and who are clinically expected to be in a state of dependence or death within three years, which is clearly morbid, as has already been mentioned. It must be said, of course, that as far as these diseases are concerned, their evolution is completely unpredictable. In addition, we are obliged to denounce that the former PSD and CDS government has refused over four years to create the status of chronic patients and to approve a national table of health functionality and disability, covering the different incapacitating realities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the first hour, the representative associations of people with disabilities have taken a public position of condemnation and deep disagreement with this amendment, which, to confirm, would make it difficult for thousands of patients to access this essential provision. For this reason, today we are presenting amendments to this Decree-Law. And the main proposals of the CFP are: the replacement of the lists of diseases covered by this special disability scheme; the elimination of the criterion of evolution to a clinical condition of dependence or death within three years; the extension of the scope to all patients with chronic and rare diseases, in conjunction with the position of the CFP creating the status of chronic patient; the maintenance of the possibility of access to the beneficiaries of the voluntary social insurance scheme. The objective of the CFP, with the presentation of these proposals that we will have the opportunity to discuss in the specialty, is to extend the number of beneficiaries and the scope of this scheme in order to ensure that all those who suffer from incapacitating diseases, of rapid and unpredictable evolution, have access to the social protection that is due them. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u123	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015, which amends the special regime for the protection of disability and social protection in situations of dependence, is an assessment which is imposed for two basic reasons. First, to correct the unacceptable and wrong political option of restricting access to special disability pension to those who are completely dependent or dying, because that is how the scope of this support is defined in the Decree-Law we are discussing today. Secondly, in order to reopen the process of reviewing this support, so that it is possible to assess in time the impact of the change in the logic of allocation of the special disability pension, listening to those who need to hear and were not heard by the previous Government, from the associations and the Order of Doctors. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, your Decree-Law was injured from death at the start, not only by a wording on which the minimum can be said is that it is a deeply unfortunate wording, not only because all the Decree-Law and the amendments it introduces were made in no transparent way and without involving and hearing who is required to participate in a process and in a matter like this, but also because the changes introduced, covering more diseases, would be able to cover fewer people than those who are required and need to be considered in access to this pension. Several experts say that the number of patients covered may actually decrease. The Order of Doctors, the associations of public health doctors, family doctors, oncologists classify the new criteria as, and I quote, "inapplicable and cruel", which are only explained by the lack of knowledge of reality and the objective of cutting pensions. The associations of patients condemn what they consider to be the definition of a "special regime to die" and claim a "special regime to live". The Socialist Party therefore gives in this debate proposals for amendments to Decree-Law No 246 / 2015, with five fundamental objectives: to end with the criterion for the allocation of special disability pension limited to diseases causing dependence or death within three years; to ensure that no one is excluded in the transition and re-evaluation of special disability pension schemes; to guarantee the complementary nature of the National Functional Table in the process of assessing disability for work and its impact; to clarify the political intention and will that the special disability regime change occurs following a transparent and participatory evaluation process, as it should be; to ensure a transitional regime that produces effects on 1 January 2016, is not being applied, because it cannot and should not be applied, the Law Decree-Law we are discussing today; to correct the current Decree-Law and prevent its application in 2016, without giving up the revision of the special regime of disability pensions. Correcting the current Decree-Law and preventing its application in 2016 without giving up the revision of the special disability pension scheme, is an urgent matter of justice and is therefore the basis of the PS commitment in our proposals today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliamentary assessments submitted by BE and the CFP, and which we are debating today, are aimed at preventing the entry into force of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October, which amends the special protection regime on disability. We cannot, however, agree with this position. I would like to make it clear from now on that the PSD Parliamentary Group agrees with the entry into force of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October, which should take place on 1 January 2016. This Decree-Law aims to increase the number of beneficiaries covered by the social protection provision in disability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u128	In fact, by Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August, only those with eight incapacitating diseases are currently protected. We are apologists that should also be beneficiaries of this special protection regime people with other diseases, also serious ones, of early appearance and of rapid evolution to extremely incapacitating situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u130	Limiting this protection to a list of eight diseases, as so far happened, is to exclude and penalize those suffering from other equally serious and extremely incapacitating diseases. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Decree-Law under discussion did not withdraw or reduce rights, simply changed the paradigm. The approach has become the permanent incapacity for work and not, as before, the fact that one carries a particular disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u131	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u132	It should not be a list of diseases to be determined by beneficiaries of State protection. It must be the consequences of the disease to determine those who have the right to such support. The existence of a list of diseases is unfair, because it questions the principle of social equity and creates situations of differentiated and excluded treatment. Our concern is, and has always been, the protection of the most disadvantaged and, under the circumstances, of beneficiaries in disability, regardless of the disease that may give rise to this disability. The aim is to increase the number of people potentially covered, and this Decree-Law allows this extension. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u133	in a matter of so great delicacy and social sensitivity, there can be no doubt. We don't have them. however, until the end of this debate, we will present a proposal for an amendment,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u134	... very circumscribed, which aims to eliminate any indefinition that may survive within the scope of Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only a mis-intended interpretation of this Decree-Law can lead to the conclusion that the PSD/CDS-PP government has intended to exclude patients from the current list. [[Good!]] [[Good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u135	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u136	I should like to conclude by saying the following: we reaffirm that the amendments introduced will not aim at reducing any rights but, indeed, they have, and have, as their objective, the protection of all citizens with diseases that cause permanent incapacity to work. We reaffirm our social sensitivity to these situations, reiterating the importance of our social security system to support the most deprived citizens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u137	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : First of all, if there is a matter where there can be no lack of rigour, in which we must avoid demagogy and prejudice, this is one of them. basically, what the previous government accused was to try to cut into what the social responses are. [[BE's protests.]] Now, if you read with strict and careful attention this Decree-Law realize that nothing can be further from reality than this accusation. What had previously existed since 2009 was a specific list of diseases that allowed access to these supports; what was sought to do was to change this paradigm, taking into account the inability that exists, without limiting these specific diseases. In other words, it has sought to open this regime to more diseases, and not, contrary to what you accuse us of, limited them. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u139	Therefore, regardless of what the disease is incapacitating, it should be allowed to have access to this same support. However, only because of ideological prejudice can it be considered that this amendment aimed to harm those with this disability. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u140	That is why it is still significant that there is little transparency in the advertising of a report that has been planned since 2009, but who did so was the previous government. It was not the government of the party with which you are currently associated that tried to make the report you had committed to. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] Therefore, the option of the previous Government, whose Decree-Law is intended, at the moment, for Parliament's assessment, was to extend these same support. It is clear that no one wants any misconceptions to remain. And therefore, as already mentioned by Mrs Susana Lamas, a proposal for a detailed amendment was submitted, which aims to change the concept of non-repression of disability by non-compensation of disability, in order to cover what is access to the regime not due to the total elimination of disability, but rather to the existence of any decompensation in the working materials, allowing that same access, and now, if the question is the question of the fact that the diseases referred to in the decree are no longer present, reintroduced this list of diseases, because it was never that which was concerned, in the amendment that was made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u141	Mr President, I am grateful that you pay attention to the time of the intervention, if you please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u142	So, in practice, what needs to be decided at this moment is whether everything will remain exactly the same, preventing those with equally incapacitating diseases from having access to this same regulatory device, or whether, by pure ideological prejudice, because this Decree-Law provides for a government with which you disagree, you will question, for your intolerance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u143	Mr. Deputies, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u144	...what the interests of the citizens carrying these same disabilities are. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now, with the presentation of Mr António Carlos Monteiro's proposal from the CDS, I was even more confused, because I did not understand, at all, what was the amendment proposal presented by the PSD and the CDS. But, of course, it's my problem; I have no problem admitting that it's my problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u147	Leia! He's here! Just read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u148	However, it is important to note that a decree which seemed perfect and fulfilled the objectives for which it had been approved required the PSD and CDS in Parliament to submit amendments to this Decree-Law. This shows, in fact, that the Decree-Law did not serve the objectives for which it was drawn up. But we welcome this availability of the PSD and the CDS now in the opposition to present proposals on this matter. The problem here, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, is not only the extinction of the list of diseases, it is the definition and the mandatory criterion of the three years of the clinical situation. And you know that this is the filter that the previous Government decided to impose to hinder access to the special disability regime. That's why,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u149	Madam Member, I would like to thank you for finishing up, because you have already exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u150	I shall finish, Mr President, by reaffirming that the proposals of the CFP are amending the Law Decree and not repealing it. We understand that there are matters that are important to maintain, from the outset, enlargement to voluntary social insurance and its forecast.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u151	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u152	I said that from the beginning. Mr. Deputy was probably distracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u153	I wasn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u154	But we propose more than that: we propose that the scope of application be extended to all chronic or rare diseases, and, therefore, it will not be just eight, those that are defined under the status of the chronic patient. Therefore, our position is precisely that, within the framework of the specialty, concrete proposals can be found to safeguard these citizens and their rights. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u155	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate on the third item on our agenda and now enter the debate on the fourth and last item, which consists in the assessment of draft resolution No 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the definition of a set of priorities for family farming with a view to establishing a Portuguese Family Agriculture Statute ( CFP ). To speak in their presentation, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Family farming, predominant in small and medium-sized farms, works on land and produces on the basis of the management and labour of the family aggregate, sometimes complemented by the performance of other activities, and can resort, on a permanent or seasonal basis, to wage labour. This is the definition of family agriculture that uses the organizations that defend this sector, although PSD and CDS Members want to extend the concept to large farms owned by families, using words to concentrate support in larger agriculture and in agribusiness, such as support for small investments, never saying that they can also be accessed by large farms. The UN, by classifying 2014 as the International Year of Family Agriculture, endorsed this definition and valued this agriculture as recognized in its statement: « Family farming and small farms are an important means of achieving viable food production and capable of ensuring food security ». However, in recent years, with the PSD/CDS government, it has been made a path in the opposite direction. The former government and the right-wing policy ruled for the big agribusiness, while forcing small agriculture to sign up for finance to sell some cabbage. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u157	It was the government for great interests, defending industrial carous farming and attacking family agriculture. As a result of the previous government, the law of eucalyptization, the content of the celluloses, was passed the House of Douro, to disrupt the relations between the production and the marketing of generous wine, were removed the rice dryers of Alcácer do Sal to the Association of Farmers of the Setúbal District to deliver them to the great owners of the region. over the past four years, more than 153 000 jobs have been destroyed in agriculture. The unequal distribution of support has been accentuated — 300 farmers receive EUR 60 million, they have received more than 120 000 smaller farmers. We found the end of the milk quotas which are suffocating many producers. The process aimed at the end of the vineyard planting rights was promoted and nothing was done to limit the abuse of the large distribution, which remains 75 % of the value produced by the agri-food sector, while the farmer is only 10 %. Portugal needs to produce more, in particular products of a strategic nature in which the country is highly deficient. It also needs to value agriculture that produces quality and proximity products, and at the same time contributes to the effective fixing of people in the territories. It is in this sense that the CFP presents more than half a hundred measures to enhance family farming, aimed at establishing a Portuguese Family Agriculture Statute and through tax measures, redistribution of support, guarantee of fair payment to production, recovery of the intervention capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and recovery of public services within the country. The last agricultural census carried out in Portugal in 2009 confirms that 90 % of agri-rural holdings are family-based, corresponding to 750 000 people, use more than 55 % of the usable agricultural area and produce more than 50 % of the national production. By associating this with its social and cultural importance, we have more than enough reasons to seriously value family farming, small and medium-sized agriculture. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u158	Mr António Lima Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u159	I thank you, Mr President, and, in speaking for the first time, I begin by greeting you and, through you, by congratulating all Members, parliamentary officials and other professionals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, 95% of agricultural holdings are part of the concept of family farming. Therefore, talking about Portuguese family farming is talking about national agriculture in general. And then, over the past four years, gross added value has increased by 10 %, exports have increased by 20 %, and the balance of trade has significantly improved. Today, young people return to the land and become farmers is a pride. This is due to the work of thousands of farmers and also to the performance of the PSD/CDS-PP government. For the coming years, this Government has prepared the 2020 RDP, which will consolidate national agriculture as economically viable, environmentally safe and socially just. The current government receives this hand-weaving plan. You just don't have to mess up. With regard to the present draft resolution, it is first of all necessary to ask: why has this project, voted here just five months ago, not merited the favorable vote of PS, PSD and CDS-PP? Because with this project it is only intended to attack the economic model defended by the parties of the arc of the European project. I leave two examples only: they demand prices for agricultural products — this only in North Korea! — and demand the guarantee of the discharge of agricultural products — that is not even in North Korea! in fact, the insistence in this project is only one more game in the cat and mouse game that flows between PCP and PS. The PCP intends to stick the PS to the wall, stretch the rope, gain negotiating weight. We bet that the PS, in this cat and mouse game, afraid of the PCP, will be hypocritically smooth to this defense of a planned economy model. But, ladies and gentlemen. PCP Members, let's get rid of it! The PS, also in agriculture, will not practice a left-wing patriotic policy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The House of Douro gave up debts, held no accounts or submitted to elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u160	And they're already paid? Tell me if you've paid them already!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u161	The PS governments pushed the problem forward with fear of losing votes. The PCP continues to stir ghosts, turn small against large, when all are necessary and essential to the region. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u162	The PSD/CDS-PP government had the courage to tackle the problem ahead and to find a solution and — surprise! — this solution was judged in the polls and the coalition in the Douro took 47% of the votes. The House of Douro issue is not a controversial issue today in the region. [[PCP protests.]] More importantly, farmers' income in this last harvest increased by 10 %. We therefore wish that, in this game of cat and mouse in relation to this matter, the PS will not be caught by the PCP. [[PCP and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u163	Thank you, Mr President, for your reference to the President and all Members. Mr Matias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am not going to talk about cats or rats, nor about the House of the Douro, because there we would have to talk about the rats that are attacking this House. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The small family farming, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have to be able to concentrate the supply in order to be able to access the market and create alternatives to asphyxiation imposed by large commercial areas. This system is not compatible with small-scale purchases and without uniformity of products. The defence of family agriculture and a quality offer requires the support of public authorities in the establishment of marketing centres and in the creation and maintenance of local markets for the disposal of family production. It is necessary to encourage the purchase by operators of the public canteens of local products from family farming. The flow of production and the adoption of prices paid to producers remunerating labour and investment is essential. The fight against the depopulation of the interior — an undeniable reality — should be based on the economic development of these regions, for which small agriculture is essential. Large areas of the northern interior and centre are occupied by scattered forests and forests, periodically burned by forest fires. The collective management of the forest is the best solution for this property, very fractionated. Small forest producers and baldiums must receive income support from the common agricultural policy (CAP) and these income aid must depend on effective forestry, forest maintenance and forest control. in the milk sector, to maintain the elimination of milk quotas, it is necessary to support small and medium-sized producers at risk of bankruptcy. Supports to convert their holdings or to stimulate their association are very important, but the price paid to milk producers is that it becomes central. The Government must intervene in the link between production, industry and distribution. Support for the installation of young farmers for livestock production currently does not cover support for the purchase of livestock for production and reproduction, which is a very high financial burden to make farming very difficult. On the other hand, the value of the installation premium, with the aim of ensuring the minimum personal income to the young farmer during the early years — and which was the same for everyone, regardless of the size of the holding — currently favours large projects, which makes it difficult for young people to install. We must correct this problem. The PSD/CDS-PP majority government has tried to gradually confuse the private economic sector with the Community sector of the buckets. This legislative amendment made it possible for the baldiums to be leased, including in the long term, for forest purposes. Maintaining this possibility, great interests, mainly linked to the cellulose industry, can rent vast areas of baldium, away from the enjoyment of many rural populations from the interior. It is therefore necessary to amend the current Baldios Act. In short, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for various reasons, whatever the angle of approach, small family farming is essential to our country and it has to be supported. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u165	Mr Joaquim Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech in this plenary session, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Members of all parliamentary committees and, in a special way, in institutional and personal capacity, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues, individuality of Portuguese public life, an exemplary Democrat of high character, whom I highly esteem, esteem and admire. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Globalisation of markets is rapidly changing the economic, social and environmental fate of man's relationship with the territory, especially in agricultural activity. Family farming represents the dominant model in world agriculture. Family farming is concentrated in our country on more than 90 % of the number of agricultural holdings and 80 % of labour, with a large deployment throughout the national territory, particularly in the northern and central regions of Portugal. Given its global importance, the United Nations declares 2014 as the International Year of Family Agriculture with the following objectives, among others: to restore family agriculture at the heart of agricultural, environmental and social policies on national agendas, seeking to give greater importance to the role of family agriculture in communities; to promote a comprehensive dialogue between political decision makers, public institutions and civil society, valuing the sustainability of rural territories; to identify gaps and opportunities to promote more fair and balanced development. Family farming is a vector of socio-economic and environmental development that empowers food production, preserves traditional varieties, protects biodiversity, thus contributing to the sustainability of economies in rural areas and to the establishment of populations, particularly young people, through the creation of employment in agriculture. It should also be noted that there are some difficulties, in particular in market access, resulting from the small size of production. It is essential to renew family farming and to know its diversity. The economic sustainability of family agriculture must be based mainly on public policies that promote the resizing of farms in order to ensure the maintenance and cultivation of agricultural land, reinforce current models of proximity trade, particularly local markets, and disseminate good practices and successful cases. The CFP is congratulated for the presentation of this draft resolution which aims to reposition family agriculture at the heart of agricultural policies in Portugal, a situation that has not, at all, been reached in the previous legislature. We are all reminded of the various protests of small farmers and of the various petitions signed by thousands of subscribers who have entered Parliament, to protest the policies followed by the former PSD Government and the CDS-PP. in this draft resolution, we suggest measures with non-quantified costs, and others, which can raise questions of legal framework, which will have to be...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u167	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u168	Yes, Mr President, I will now conclude. He said they would have to be properly equated with a view to their viability in the future. The Socialist Party took into account in the Government Programme, approved in this House, a set of measures supporting a clear strategy with the aim of increasing support for small and young farmers. these support points out some proposals contained in the Government Programme and I quote: increase by 100 € the minimum payment per farmer; increase by 15 000 € the maximum eligible amount of investment projects for small farmers; increase by 50 % the payments per hectare, of the first five hectares, a directed measure for family farming.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u169	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Aware of the importance of family farming in Portugal, particularly in the pursuit of sustainable development goals and territorial cohesion, generators of more productive wealth, environmental and well-being, helping to fix people in areas within the country, the Socialist Party accompanies and participates, with strategic interest, in this debate, in order to raise awareness among public and private actors on this issue, with great national, European and global scope. We will all be few to boost family farming by placing it at the heart of rural development policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u171	Mr President, your words about the President have been as excessive as gentiles, and I thank you anyway, but it has also been excessive the time you used for your intervention. Given that it was your first intervention, it allows it to end, being sure that in the future it will be more content. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Family agriculture is in fact the most representative of national agricultural reality, as Mr João Ramos mentioned here, and the CDS-PP recognises its importance in Portuguese economic and social fabric. But, Mr Ramos, what distinguishes us, in addition to, of course, ideological issues — we, CDS-PP, stand up for a market economy and you are defending a planned economy — is essentially the fact that we believe that, if all small farms are family agriculture, not all family agriculture is small and that both realities must exist, co-exist, for the benefit of the diversity of the Portuguese rural world and the national economy. We therefore do not defend one to the detriment of the other, as you seem to defend. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u174	The previous Government also recognized the importance of family farming and, for this reason, it has already joined the United Nations to celebrate the International Year of Family Agriculture. This proves that both the conclusions that have emerged from the FAO conference and that have marked the end of that year's celebration, both their reflections and the main results — no doubt! — almost all had already been implemented by the former PSD Government / CDS-PP. What were those recommendations? It's worth mentioning here a few. FAO recommends the recognition of the role of family agriculture in preserving agrobiodiversity, and the rural development plan has a set of agri-environmental measures, such as support for traditional permanent crops, which the former PS Government had withdrawn.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u176	FAO recommends the implementation of policies to ensure the access of these farmers to natural and financial resources. in the negotiation of the CAP, the small farming scheme was created which allows all farmers to receive a minimum of 500 €. We have also implemented the flat-rate VAT regime and the land exchange and have created a new collection insurance system. FAO also recommends the promotion of market access capacity, particularly at local level, and the establishment of producer organisations, as a way to strengthen the economic and negotiating capacity of small farmers, which was done: we later created PARCA, later, the PARF, penalized restrictive individual trade practices, legislated local producer markets, distribution cost circuits and introduced mechanisms that allowed the specificity of small agriculture in the constitution of producer organisations. FAO also recommends access to or support for investment, and small investments in rural development are a solution for most of these needs. contrary to what Mr Ramos has said, they allow all, large and small, to support what we stand for. FAO also recommends the capture of young people and had never before been installed so many young people. Finally, in order not to be exhaustive, FAO still recommends strengthening innovation, with operational groups being promoted, which allow the formation of innovation projects in thematic areas considered essential. But much more has been done for family farming in the last four years. Just to give an example, I refer to the gates of small quantities, the bread door, the dispatch of slaughter to self-consumption, of domestic kitchens, of recognition of traditional products. Therefore, Mr President, we, CDS-PP, cannot support this draft resolution which is presented today, as has already been the case with the previous draft resolution No 1364 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), of which this is almost absolute transcription, which was rejected with the votes of the CDS-PP and the PSD and with the abstention of the PS. In fact, after hearing Mr Joaquim Barreto, I am curious about what the position of the PS will be this time, and whether the word given is the word honored or whether the word given is the word changed after the'marriage' of the PS with the left. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u177	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I reaffirm that the CFP elected family agriculture for this first intervention here in the Assembly of the Republic. by the interventions we have heard, we realize that some Members live well with some situations: the milk paid at 19 cents per litre does not bother you; the potato paid to the producers at 5 cents per kilo does not bother you; there seems to be no problem in the large distribution to stay with 75% of the value that is created from the work of the farmers, because for every 10 € that each of you spend on the supermarket in agri-food products only 1 € reaches the products. That doesn't seem to bother you. You say that you do not distinguish between farmers, that there are no differences between farmers, but you have distinguished us very well from the support they provide. We, the CFP, do not claim that all groups agree with our measures, but we believe it is important to protect family agriculture, mainly and precisely because of the importance that everyone here has recognized it and that no one has denied it. I shall finish, Mr President, by telling the honourable Members. Members, particularly the PSD and the CDS-PP, who talked so much about young farmers, who would like to have brought us here the clarification that I so often asked the current deputy Assumption Cristos, as Minister of Agriculture, of how many young people remain in agriculture after five years of the installation period. This information is mandatory and never, but never, has arrived.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u179	Now ask your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u180	With regard to the House of Douro, Mr President, it is a good example of what it is to be between the great and the small. The House of Douro protected small agriculture, small and medium-sized wines growers of the Douro, and you gave the House of Douro to an entity that has already been on the side of production, which has already been associated with marketing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u181	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u182	...is now on the side of production and one of the first measures it took was to decide to deliver half a million euros of certification fee to itself, which was approved by the President of IVDP, and now intends to mortgage the headquarters of the House of Douro, having no legitimacy to do so, to collect a few more million. Here is an example of the work they have done in the Ministry of Agriculture, in the previous legislature. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u183	There's no more Mrs. Members registered to intervene. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will do the favor of giving information to the House. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u184	Mr. President, to communicate to the Members. Members who, within the framework of parliamentary assessments 7 / XIII ( 1 ) a ) ( BE) and 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) ( PCP ), on Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October, which amends Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August 2009 approving the special disability protection regime, have entered into the Bureau proposals for amendment overwritten by BE, the PCP, the PSD and the CDS and the other PS. All amendments are down to 10. the Commission, where the matter should now be developed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-10.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m., whose agenda is five points of debate. The first point consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 61 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sixty-sixth amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of incapacity and its supply, and adapting a set of legislation avulva to this new regime ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 62 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, criminalizing a set of conducts that address the fundamental rights of the elderly ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 63 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, which regulates the election of the President of the Republic, the tenth amendment to the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Law No. 14 / 79 of 16 May, the sixth amendment to Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election of the holders of local authorities'organs, and the third amendment to the Legal Regime of the Local Referendant, approved by Organic Law No. 4 / 2000 of 24 August, adapting the electoral incapacity active to the new civil regime of disabilities ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The second item on the agenda relates to the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — preference for local food production in public canteens ( The Greens ), 58 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Promotion of access to local production agricultural products to public canteens ( BE), 66 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Transition to a healthier and sustainable diet in the public canteens, using local and organic agricultural products ( PAN) and 71 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates a regime for the selection of food products in public canteens and meals ( PS ). The third point consists of the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 976 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Third amendment to Law No 92 / 95 of 12 September, sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 276 / 2001 of 17 October, first amendment to Decree-Law No 313 / 2003 of 17 December, first amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September, first amendment to Ordinance No 421 / 2004 of 24 April — Prohibitions the indiscriminate slaughter of animals by municipal chambers, establishes a policy for the control of the populations of errant animals and establishes additional conditions for the creation and sale of pets (Legal Initiative of Citizens) and 65 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for the establishment of a network of official animal collection centres and for the modernisation of municipal veterinary services ( CFP ). of the fourth point is the joint assessment of petition No 133 / XII ( 1. a ), submitted by Alberto Fernando da Silva Santos and others, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic once again discuss the need for the immediate construction of the IC 35, in the Penafiel-Entre-os-Rios section and recommend it to the Government and draft resolutions 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent integral construction of IC35 ( PCP ) and 37 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends priority in the construction of IC35 ( Penafiel / Entre-os-Rios ) ( BE ). of the fifth and final point is draft resolution No 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Participation of the Assembly of the Republic in International Parliamentary Organizations ( President of the HR ). We shall have a vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 14 minutes.]]
