ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u2	Madam President, I begin by announcing the withdrawal of draft resolution No 1246 / XII — Recommends to the Government to promote the opening of the classification procedure of the current Grand Vasco Museum for « Grand Vasco National Museum » ( PS ). They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 1495 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the model for the application of catch limits in various species ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 1496 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Against the decharacterization of the beach of D. Ana, in Lagos ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 1497 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by valuing vocational education and ensuring equal opportunities for all students ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 1498 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Financial support to centres of culture and sport of Social Security ( CFP ), 1499 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen cooperation with the Government, the Legislative Assembly and the municipalities of the State of Goa, in the Indiana Union ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission ; 1500 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the positive discrimination of the sub-region of the Sousa and Thamega Valley ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 1501 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of reprisals of CP Cargo, SA and EMEF, SA ( PS ) ; 1502 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by reopening and requalifying the line of the Thame ( PCP ) ; 1503 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Restitutes the right to transport to railway workers and their families ( BE) ; 1504 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Requalification and reopening of the line of the Thame ( BE ) ; down to 6. the Commission ; 1505 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government some measures to be taken in amending the law governing the Child and Youth Protection Committees as well as in amending the legal regulations contained in the Civil Code relating to the adoption and establishment of a legal regime for the adoption process ( PS ) and 1506 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combating food waste to promote efficient food management ( The Greens ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 967 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Regulation of the operating hours of trade and distribution units ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 968 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a special scheme for access to disability and old-age pension for workers of the quarry ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 969 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Union of Freguesias de Campo ( São Martinho ), São Salvador do Campo and Negroes ( São Mamede ), in the municipality of Santo Tirso, for the parish of Vila Nova do Campo ( PS ) ; 970 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Saint Augustine, in the municipality of Moura, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; 971 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of measures wrongly regarded as job promoters such as IEC, IEC + and employment stages to meet the permanent needs of public services and enterprises ( CFP ) ; 972 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the protection of workers ( PCP ), 973 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Renews the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions, making the ninth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; 974 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the regime for the regularisation of undocumented foreign citizens ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, listening to the autonomous regions ; and 975 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend Articles 1905. the Civil Code and 989. the Civil Procedure Code ( PS ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start our agenda today, which consists of the debate on draft resolution No 1506 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combating food waste to promote efficient food management ( The Greens ). I'll inform you. Members whom Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has already requested the vote on this diploma at the end of her discussion. You have the floor, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens today bring the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, as its legislative agenda, a matter of great relevance to sustainability: combating food waste. When we talk about food waste, we talk about food intended for human consumption that has ended up being unused in quantity or quality. The question is that these unused foods were effectively produced and have very significant impacts on the use of natural resources, including marine resources, soils, water and energy. These foods, which are unused, drag away, therefore, with the waste of relevant natural resources. This is to stop talking about the waste and greenhouse gas emissions that have resulted from them. What the Greens say is that we are not in a position to dispose of natural resources so that it becomes an environmental imperative to combat food waste. That is precisely the purpose of the draft resolution presented by the Greens today to the Assembly of the Republic. First, it is necessary to know and be aware of the size of the problem, as well as its causes, so that it can then act accordingly and effectively. In Portugal, there is only one study conducted specifically on food waste. It was developed in the framework of the project PERDA ( Project of Study and Reflection on Food Waste ) and consists of the field publication to the forfo. This study concludes that more than 1 million tonnes of food are wasted annually in Portugal and also makes it clear that food losses occur at all stages of the supply chain: from production, processing, packaging, transport, distribution or consumption. However, it can be seen that the production and consumption phases are those where the greatest food loss occurs. But there is a relevant record in this study that deserves to be taken into account. It is that the Commission itself recognises the need to deepen its knowledge of the issue, thus calling for the development of new studies to better understand the dimension of the problem. In the meantime, a guide was created, called Food Waste—A commitment of all! , signed between the Government and several food sector actors, which contain important and interesting principles, but which are not largely put into practice. When we talk about food losses, we cannot practice a policy for its reduction on the basis of principles contained in the paper and with the award of stamps and prizes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u5	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u6	What the Greens are proposing with this legislative initiative that brings today to the Assembly of the Republic is that Parliament should give a boost to the fight against food waste in Portugal and not to stay out of this national design. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose that today the Parliamentary Assembly declare 2016 as the national year of combating food waste. This discussion will allow a series of actions on better food management in our country to be highlighted, to be intensified next year. in this sense, the Greens already add a set of 15 proposals which do not aim, either close or far, to exhaust everything that is possible to do, but which highlight very important points of action. We recommend that the Government also engage in a set of initiatives next year within the national year of combating food waste, declared by the Assembly of the Republic. We propose to promote and create conditions of rigorous research and knowledge, more detailed and continuously updated on the reality of food waste, particularly its causes. We propose the creation of a national action programme that sets not only principles but also annual and multiannual targets and targets to reduce food waste. This programme should, in the perspective of the Greens, be built in a process of active and collaborative participation of society. We propose the compatibility of the objectives of reducing food waste with the full satisfaction of the needs of the population, with particular urgency for children and young people, taking into account, inter alia, the INE report on poverty, inequality and material deprivation in Portugal. The truth is that we must bear in mind that the policies of austerity of the government and the troika have greatly accentuated the structural problems of poverty and hunger in our country, which we urgently need to fight on all roads, but always on a horizon to guarantee worthy forms of subsistence of families. Education, awareness, information are also fundamental processes to meet objectives that involve changing lifestyle habits. in this sense, and in order to combat food waste, we propose the development of a campaign to raise awareness of economic agents and consumers. We propose that it be integrated into school curricula, in the context of environmental education or education for sustainability, in the matter of efficient food management. We propose the creation of creative initiatives involving young people in ideas and actions to combat food losses. We also propose the generalization of consumer knowledge of the difference between consuming « before » or « deadline of consumption» and consuming « preferably until » or « preferential date of consumption », insofar as this indifference leads to the dumping of many food products when they are still within the date of validity. We propose measures to improve production processes and to encourage shortening of food-marketing circuits. In fact, there are two relevant issues here: firstly, a production suitable for consumption needs and not subject to profit logics allows a more environmentally sustainable and less widespread production; secondly, the longer the supply chain is the most waste, particularly in perishable products. in these foods, the consumption of local products and the approximation of production to consumption also ensures the delivery of fresher products to the consumer and therefore with greater durability of consumption. Having these factors present, Mr. and Mr. Members, The Greens also propose to set up a sub-programme under the Rural Development Programme for short-circuit chains for the marketing of food products. We propose to encourage the purchase of food goods in proximity markets, in particular as regards perishable products and, as it could not fail to be, we attach the need for a responsible attitude to public institutions, providing for the importance of establishing a significant percentage of the use of local food products, by the public sector, in particular for the supply of public canteens, such as in schools or hospitals. We do not forget, of course, the importance of the contribution of the restoration sector to the objective of combating food losses. The Greens also propose that we all be aware that packaging is, for various reasons, many of which we have already brought to the Assembly of the Republic, a problem that needs to be regulated on the market. Regarding the matter that we are dealing with, often the market, in relation to certain foods, only offers hyperfamily packaging, which means that being inadequate amounts of family needs remains much of the food contained in the package, leftovers that usually have garbage as a destination. We therefore propose that we work to ensure that food packages are sized according to the needs of consumers. On market supply, we denounce the fact that the European Union has created a quality concept of certain food products, such as fruit and vegetables, based on its size and appearance. The European Union makes fine fruit or fruit appear to be a quality criterion. Now, this principle is totally wrong and competes for the existence of more food waste, as it is easy to understand. We therefore propose that actions be taken at European Union level on the ineffectiveness of rules established in relation to the requirements of the sizes and forms of vegetables and fruit products. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens propose that the calculation of the amount of natural resources saved annually be made available in relation to food loss reduction levels, in order to stimulate all food chain players for the environmental success of their options. It is important that the actors in the process can perceive the positive results of their actions. In short, or perhaps with some detail, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the proposals that the Greens here today bring to the Assembly of the Republic and here, in this forum, what I would like to highlight was the importance of today's unanimous approval of this project by the Greens Ecological Party, as we consider it to be a strong and decisive impetus for effective actions in the fight against food waste in Portugal. It is an environmental and social design that calls us and which we must respond to.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u7	Thus, draft resolution No 1506 / XII ( 4 ) was presented. ( a ) by the Greens initiative. There are still requests for clarification, for which the honourable Members are already registered. Deputies Miguel Freitas, PS, Luís Pedro Pimentel, PSD, Rita Rato, PCP, Manuel Isaac, CDS-PP, and Bruno Coimbra, PSD. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia will respond first to a set of three questions and then to the other two. To ask for clarification, I give the floor to Mr. Miguel Freitas of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by welcoming this initiative of the Green Party in this Parliament, a Parliament which was virtually absent from the debate on food waste for four years. It is true that the services of this Parliament organized health trips in 2012 in which the issue of food and food waste was a topic. It is true that also in 2012 the canteen and restaurants of this Parliament joined the Zero Waste Movement and — it is frightening! — there is a quote in the thousands of interventions which have been made in this House during these four years by Mr Artur Rêgo in 2012 on food waste. That has been the contribution made by this Parliament to this debate so far. So this is an initiative that we wanted to start by greeting. But, of course, the set of proposals that bring us to bear in mind, in some cases, doubts which we would like to see clarified by Mrs Heloísa Apollonia. First, it proposes that 2016 be the national year against food waste. Well, it is true that last year was the European Year against Food Waste and therefore I would like to understand what justifies that next year of 2016 we have the national year of combating food waste. I wish you could help us understand this proposal. On the other hand, the Greens are proposing that strict uprisings should be made in this area, which is one of your proposals. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I believe that what we really need now is to do in-depth studies and research, both at the level of production and at the level of industry, both at the level of trade and at the level of consumption. There are studies being done at European level, which are being developed, particularly in France and Spain, and it seems to us that this idea of strict uprisings is being made. There is a survey made in Portugal, the study done by PERDA, which is a reference we have, but I think we need much more than rigorous surveys. Madam Member, let me leave one last question. It proposes that this matter be integrated into the context of environmental education in curricula. Madam Member, our view is that this is such a horizontal and so cross-cutting issue that what is really needed is solid training, from the point of view of the broad band of training and education, of our young people to realize this phenomenon. So we also have doubts there and we would like to have a clarification from the honourable Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u9	The next question lies with Mr Luís Pedro Pimental of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to thank the Green Party and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for bringing this important issue to this House, since, in fact, combating food waste is a priority for us, PSD, and for this government. The theme of this afternoon's debate has undoubtedly been one of the greatest challenges of the present day: reducing food waste in the world as a moral and ethical issue, while responding to the paradigm that there are regions of the globe with food shortages and others, where food waste, along the chain, exceeds 30%. The PSD is, of course, concerned and attentive to this issue, as you have already said, and you welcome the pioneering initiatives of the current Government in encouraging programmes to combat and reduce food waste. It is not too strong that this government and this majority have initiated actions and weights on this issue. We therefore welcome the various governmental decisions that directly and indirectly combat this issue. First of all, we welcome, directly, the creation, always in conjunction with civil society, of a programme that distinguishes the implementation of good management policies and models in the fight against food waste, such as Prato 20 % Off — Food Waste Initiative. Secondly, we welcome the decisions that have been taken to amend and improve the functioning of the food chain, particularly those related to the functioning of the market. in fact, we understand that increasing transparency and distribution of value along the row contributes positively to the proper functioning of the market and consequently to the least waste. The creation of PARCA ( Platform for Monitoring Relations in the Agri-Food Chain ) was an example of a measure that specifically aims at greater equity in the trade relationship between producers and distributors. Thirdly, we welcome the widespread introduction of the distribution of foods with different calibers than traditional ones. in the case of fruit, where there were European and national, private and public initiatives, which promoted the consumption of small-scale fruit pieces, whose commercial value was almost zero. Currently, these types of products are more generalized, which did not happen a few years ago. These are three examples of actions that combat food waste. There are, of course, other models and still a lot of work to continue. However, the effectiveness of this work results from the greatest possible involvement of several actors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and this, too, is a widespread problem to the European continent, France has recently taken an initiative prohibiting French supermarkets from throwing out food with their expiry date of validity, and it is mandatory to give them to organisations dedicated to animal nutrition or to the manufacture of agricultural fertilizers. Therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, she wanted to know what her opinion on this matter and this measure applied in France. The PSD sees this as a positive example and understands that this and other models should be analyzed in order to evaluate their effectiveness and possible import into the Portuguese case. in fact, the fight against this scourge will be more effective and comprehensive if agreed, at European level, on the definition of shared strategies to combat waste throughout the food chain. That is what we expect of the government, and that is what the government has shown to do. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u11	I now give the floor to Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP for a question too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on behalf of the Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, would like to begin by welcoming the Greens Ecological Party for bringing to the debate today in plenary the matter of combating food waste. This debate is particularly important because Portuguese society is faced with a reality of impoverishment, of aggravating poverty and social exclusion, which requires important measures, particularly with regard to child poverty. Point 4 of the initiative under discussion today, the authorship of The Greens, sets out the objectives to reconcile measures to reduce food waste with food security and the full satisfaction of the food needs of the population, with particular urgency in relation to children and young people, taking into account the INE report on poverty, inequality and material deprivation in Portugal. In this regard, the CFP believes that the reality of child poverty should be an immediate and structural response, in addition to the recent reports of the National Institute of Statistics have alerted to the increase in poverty among children and young people and even the recent report of UNICEF — The Children and Crisis in Portugal, with data from 2013, recognizes that the risk of poverty is higher in families with children and, in particular, in single-parent families, which, in fact, requires reflection and action to monitor and eradicate poverty in a generalized manner but, in particular, among children and young people. From that point on, data from the Ministry of Education said that in 2013 there were 14 000 children with severe hunger and food shortages in public schools. And we understand that this is an alert which must mobilise us to take concrete measures and therefore the proposals here today, notably point 4, take up the acceptance of the CFP. It is important to say that in Portugal one out of four children lived in aggregates with material deprivation—we are talking about data relating to 2012 and that the application of measures to reduce social support and cuts in family salaries can necessarily increase—and that one out of four children lived in families with difficulty or inability to pay a loan, household income, accounts within the time limit and have a meal of meat or fish every two days and face unforeseen expenses. So in 2015, in the 21st century, Portugal is faced with a very serious situation of child poverty and material deprivation. on the part of the CFP, the commitment is that of taking profound measures to guarantee social support to all families and children that they need, so we have put forward proposals for either the repeal of the condition of appeal and the extension of these support, or urgent action to that end. Thus, we have proposed free school social action to all children who need this support. The question we are asking you here is this: by recognizing, in fact, the priority of this fight, how does point 4 of the draft resolution on the compatibility that is necessary in combating food waste and the reality of responding to child poverty, the Green Party believes that this is the fundamental challenge? from the PCP side, we naturally follow this goal which, for us, is civilizational. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u13	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u14	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions you raised. Starting by answering the questions put by Mr. Miguel Freitas, when The Greens propose that the year 2016 be declared a year of combatting food waste is not to put the country dressed up with posters and assign medals to everyone who participates in the supply chain, for example, and let us all here congratulate each other. When we propose that the National Year of Combating Food Waste be created, it means that institutions and all actors in the process are also given responsibility to act on the problem, that is to say, it is about raising consciences, focusing on a certain time, in this case a year, so that they are called to take action, initiatives, to think, reflect, debate the matter of food waste and, in particular, their fight. He recalled that the European Parliament also declared 2014 as the European Year of Combating Food Waste, but the reaction of the European Commission was not strong, Mr, and the reaction at European level was not strong. That's not what we want. Here, in our national corner, with our sovereignty, let us do another way. We will concentrate on actions in a given year on this matter, which will, of course, also impact in the following years. That is to say, let us start strongly in a society linked to this end, with a view to this objective. Regarding the studies, we consider it extremely important to deepen studies to know the size and causes of the problem. In view of the fact that there has been a single detailed study on this issue in Portugal today, and when one of the conclusions that is withdrawn is that much more needs to be done, it is clear that we have to take steps in this direction. And we can only tackle a problem when we know what's up in a pretty strict way. On curriculums — I thank the question, so that we can specify it, we do not want to integrate the subject into a curriculum with a disciplinary character, but we would like to say this, but we would also like the schools to be involved, in particular in their environmental education programmes, in education for sustainability, because we believe that these are important sources where these issues can be addressed. basically, what we are asking for is that the educational community too should not forget the approach to this issue. Mr Pimentel, what is fundamental, the secret of the matter, let us say so, is to begin to have adequate production for consumption. That is a fundamental issue. And, for this reason, small-scale production, family production and its approach to the consumer — producing it and consuming it locally — is a determining issue to substantially reduce food waste, either because production becomes more appropriate to the needs of consumption, or because a long supply chain is lost, which contributes to successive forms of food waste. It is clear that what is no longer to be consumed can be reused in other ways, but we must not lose the central focus of the issue, which is, in fact, another way of producing and another way of consuming, and this is extremely important. Mrs Rita Rato, I am also grateful for your question and, even to conclude, Mrs President, I would like to say the following: The unfair distribution of wealth is also a way of generating unfair way of access to food. And when we talk about food, we talk about fundamental issues about a person's survival. So we're talking about very serious things. But what the honourable Member says is clear: when we are here in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss wage matters, to discuss matters of subsistence of families, to dignify families, we are, of course, also fighting for food security, and that is something we must not lose sight of.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u15	To put the next question, Mr Manuel Isaac has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u16	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it is always a good thing that this problem of food waste is being discussed. In fact, it is a matter that must never cease to be on the agenda. As the Greens draft resolution says, food waste in our country is about 1 million tons a year, i.e., each Portuguese wastes, on average, per year, 97 kg of food. Even if we are a value below the European Union average, we are still concerned. What is a fact and a great truth is that this fight must be done from production to final consumer. And this implies a lot of things in the middle. I give you the example of what I did for the Food Bank in the collection of products on earth. When the plant producer does not know the price at harvest time and when the price is low he will not harvest, because he does not even arrive to do the harvest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u18	What's going on? It passes with the strawberry above, buried on the ground, serves as fertilizer, it's true. But he's asking for help, there's a field for anyone who wants to pick. And you know, Mrs. Member, who took that cabbage? Me and the prisoners of the Queen's Caldas chain, because there was no volunteer for the spoon. There was a year when the rock pear was cheap and there was a producer who said: « I have my orchard full of pears, the money does not give to harvest even the pears, I need volunteers to do it and I give the pear to whoever wants it». Again, I spoke to the director of the Queen’s Caldas chain and went to the prisoners to pick up the pear — 7 tons of pear! Mrs. Member, this is not as easy as you say. The problem is voluntary to do so, because the very ones who will consume this harvest are never available to do it. This is also a culture problem. In fact, in recent decades, the issue of waste is a problem of culture. In the past, nothing was wasted, everything was taken advantage of; what humans did not consume, animals consumed. In fact, the animal was the best recycling machine that existed and still exists today. I remember perfectly, at my parents' house, when the potato was peeled, the bark went to the piggy. That doesn't happen today. Where are you going today? Either go to the ground and serve as fertilizer or it's another environmental problem. There is, therefore, much to do in this regard, and the government has done so, as with the proximity markets, which exhaust the so-called 'bad fruit'. Also this fruit, as you know, is already consumed in schools. This project was made and exists. But today, Mrs Deputies — and that, to me, is the big problem — the more it happens, the more it is wasted. When there was a lack, there was no waste. I fully understand the matter, but we must always bear in mind that when this happens in the food chain, for those who produce value even more goes down. Therefore, we must bear in mind that the producer cannot pay the bill to feed the others. I mean, here the problem is bigger. I would just like to ask you if you think that the Government has, in this matter, done a fight against food waste and if you have been sensitive to this problem and have already taken fundamental steps to mitigate it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u19	To put the next question, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by welcoming the Greens Ecological Party for the choice of the subject which today brought the debate. Food waste has an impact on different areas, indeed, but it has a very concrete impact on the environment, and it is on this perspective that I would like to question Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Already in 2013 the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization prepared a study on food waste and its consequences and reported that the impact on climate, water, land and biodiversity is tremendous. We are talking about an emission of 3, 3 billion tons of greenhouse gases in the planet's atmosphere, with economic costs resulting from around $750 billion a year. The honourable Member knows that such a project can only be welcomed by this majority, particularly in point 6, with the suggestion that the amount of resources saved should be disclosed in relation to the reduction levels of food losses. It can only be welcomed by this majority, I would say, or this was not also the Government of combating waste. Yes, this is ultimately the Government of combating waste, combating mismanagement, combating all types of waste in the most different areas. In fact, today we are talking about food waste, but if we were talking about other areas we would know that, to avoid waste, the efficient use of resources has been promoted and prioritized in the strategic plans and policies of the Government. It was to avoid waste that reduced costs in ministries and public institutions. It was to avoid the waste that merged institutes and ended with civil governments. It was to avoid waste that the PPPs were renegotiated. I would say that, in a generic way, combating waste is an expensive issue for this majority and for this government. Recently, the UN Assistant Secretary-General and Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme, Achim Steiner, identified « (...) the loss and waste of food as a great opportunity for countries to make the transition to an inclusive green economy, low in carbon and efficient in resource use ». Today, the OECD Secretary-General has called for a reorientation of investments to favour not only job creation, with a social model with less injustice, but also 'green growth' of economies. The Portuguese Government is already taking that path. The Green Growth Commitment was signed by 82 civil society organizations last April, positioning Portugal in a new model of development capable of reconciling economic growth, environmental protection and the efficient use of resources. Also within the framework of Community support, the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Resource Efficiency) makes available in Axis III — Environmental protection and promotion of resource efficiency, EUR 1000 million. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the question I ask you is whether you do not think that, in this environmental field, this government is no longer taking a path that is consistent with the resolution of the concerns that you have raised here today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u21	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u22	Madam President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions you asked me. At the bottom, both of you. Members have just asked the same question, that is, they are asking whether the government has already done wonders on this matter. I believe that in my initial speech I have already given my very sincere opinion: I do not think so. It is worth noting that the guide that has been set up between the Government and those involved in the supply chain is extremely important, but this guide contains principles. And what I said in my speech was that, in general, the vast majority of the principles are not in practice. Now, what we are proposing, through this draft resolution, besides things not included in this guide, is to give a boost to practice - that is what we want. We want it not only to have a role, but to promote practice. In fact, we believe that it has not been easy, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In addition to the award of stamps and prizes, which I do not think is the fundamental matter for combating food waste, the Government has not been well aware of this matter. It is interesting that Mr Bruno Coimbra has made a parallel between the importance of combating food waste and the closure of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u23	And he did very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u24	Excuse me, sir, but I think that's unbelievable! Let me try to tell you something so that we all become aware of the matter. Combating food waste is not taking food to people, and this is what you have done with public services: they have closed public services of proximity, making it difficult for people to access these services. We will therefore delete this comparison, which makes no sense in this debate, Mr President. By the way, I want to tell you that FAO recognises that — see, Mr! — if you took advantage of a third of all that is wasted on food in the world, that would be to feed the entire population of the world. It would suffice to 'attack' one third of this food waste. This gives us insight into the extent of the problem and the extent of the injustices we have to tackle. Mr. Manuel Isaac, whose speech was funny, because it was very practical, ends up, without saying or recognizing it, questioning the model of growth that has been being made. The honourable Member is making great strides in globalisation, in the processes of urbanization, in the depopulation of the rural world, in the ways of life of the rural world. It is true that urbanization causes the supply chain to stretch much longer. You are making all these criticisms, I am only sorry that, on a day-to-day basis, in the Assembly of the Republic, in fundamental matters too, you do not recognise that we are in a process of capitalist growth which is absolutely unfaithful to the need for the preservation and exploitation of our natural resources and the dignity of the people. That is extremely important. He said: "The more you get, the more you waste". Of course, because it is produced according to profit, it does not occur according to the real needs of the populations. If production — particularly family production — were to bet on food needs, we would have other levels of production. And indeed, in order to promote new development processes, we need to substantially change these production processes and these consumption processes. But take note of this, Member : profit for profit is something to eradicate in this process. It is the needs that dictate the forms of production and not profit for profit. We really need to change growth and development concepts. I believe that this Greens project also sheds much light on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u25	Mr Jorge Fão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Combating food waste and seeking more efficient food management is really, as it is here today more than proven, an important debate. We think more of it as a necessary and even mandatory debate, and a debate from which consequences must be drawn. From that point on, there should be greater awareness of producers, intermediaries, traders and consumers for this problem, and then there should also be greater accountability for policy-makers who intervene directly in the management of this matter. It is important that we focus on the concept of food waste. The generally accepted concept is that all foods that do not meet the purpose for which they are produced or captured are considered food waste. The global macro framework characterizes and demonstrates the serious dimension of this problem. As soon as the forecasts and projections point out that in 2050, 35 years from now, with the expected increase of the population to about 9000 million inhabitants, it is necessary to produce more 70 % of food products than we are currently producing. This alone gives the dimension of what is expected, within 35 years, in order to intervene in this matter. That is, it will be necessary to produce more, to continue to produce more. But we have the notion that soils are saturated, there are resources that are finite, pests are increasingly resistant and harder and there are still great reserves for the use of genetically modified organisms (GMOs). Therefore, in the face of these and other difficulties, it will surely be imperative to combat and reduce food waste. I think that we should all be aware — and this debate helps me, in particular, to help myself, of the need to intervene urgently in this matter. We must, of course, all collectively be aware of the size and gravity of the problem, a fundamental point of departure in order to address the issue with the seriousness it requires. It is necessary to constantly monitor and evaluate what the economic, environmental and social costs of food waste are. It is imperative to correct and improve the attitude, behavior and performance throughout the entire food chain. From then on, in production, in food processing, in processing and conservation, in distribution and also in consumption. in Europe, as already mentioned today, the data tell us that between 30 % and 50 % of edible foods are wasted, which last year meant about 89 million tonnes of wasted food and with the prospect of evolving. In Portugal we have data indicating that 17 % of food goods are also wasted, i.e. about 1 million tonnes. And from this million tons, right at the production stage, 332 000 tonnes are eliminated, wasted. So this challenge is really gigantic. Reaching the maximum rate of use of everything that is produced for food, improving the efficiency of the food chain and increasing reduction to waste are objectives that must unite us collectively. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u27	The draft resolution presented here by the Greens Ecological Party essentially focuses its concerns, although being comprehensive, and concentrates the discourse on the agricultural sector, especially on the agri-food chain. for our part, we believe that a special emphasis should also be given to the fisheries sector, the resources of aquaculture, since at present they are not only at the global level but also at the national level, one of the fundamental parts of the diet and the structure of the food of Portuguese. In fact, we are the first fish consumers in Europe, we are the third fish consumers in the world, we consume 57 kg/per capita/year of fish and, in this sector, there is also a significant waste. But here is perhaps even more serious, because here resources are clearly finite. The problems resulting from overfishing are perfectly identified, and alerts in relation to many species are evident to all of us. And in many cases there is still the impossibility of replenishing stocks. Therefore, in this area of fishery and aquaculture products and the aquatic environment in general, special attention is needed. Clearly, we will not be able to fish any more, we will clearly have to fish less, but, above all, we must fish better, more intelligently and selectively, fish, molluscs, crustaceans, finally, all the variety of what we consume in this area. in northern Europe, 20 % to 60 % of catches, at the catch stage, especially deep-sea fishing and trawl fishing, are returned, are rejected. In Portugal, 15 % of the catches — are data from FAO, a study carried out under the PERDA project, a credible study supported by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, i.e. 30 000 tonnes of fish per year of what we call « the best fish in the world », are returned (i.e. not used), namely: carapau, green, sardine, horse, fish, game, etc. And why? For several reasons: either because we exceed quotas, or because they do not have the minimum acceptable size, or because the deterioration on board is very large, or because there are no conditions for good treatment of fish in our vessels. In 2014 the Portuguese fleet downloaded the lowest volume of fish from the last 45 years: 120 000 t, i.e. less 17, 5 % than in 2013. And aquaculture, despite all this speech, did not come out in the last four years of the 10 000 t / year. The trade balance of the sector has significantly increased by more than EUR 40 million of damage to a total of EUR 660 million / year of deficit trading balance. If we do not fight waste and returns in the fisheries sector, a significant part of the Portuguese will not have access to fish consumption in the short term. I shall conclude by drawing attention to the fact that the new common fisheries policy adopted on 1 January 2014 establishes, among other great objectives, the fight against waste. From then on, the reduction of undesirable catches, the elimination of returns, the rules of which had already begun at the beginning of 2015, and the mandatory landing of all catches. Therefore, fishing must be smarter and we must reduce catch to the maximum sustainable income. It is therefore essential in the fisheries sector to reduce waste as well. This requires more knowledge and research and, above all, selective technology in catches; multiannual fisheries planning; more sophisticated on-board handling techniques; improved conservation and freezing conditions; improved processing circuits; cold and conservation network; and, above all, promotion of consumption of less value species. The European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which supports the common fisheries policy, has or will have funding available. Unfortunately, Portugal has not yet approved its operational programme. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, there is still much to be done in the fisheries sector with regard to the fight against food waste. Surely, we are all summoned to this great challenge. We would therefore like to make a contribution to this debate, bring this specific issue and add it to this discussion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u28	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against waste of resources, in general, is a strong argument against the fact that the market itself does not spontaneously resolve its imbalances. Therefore, public power should prevail over the market. This is the case in the fight against income inequality. This is the case in the fight against social objectives, fierce competition, but also in the fight against resource waste. Therefore, the market is not merely regulated; it must be subordinated to a power that regulates, but strategically outlines its future. Therefore, the Left Block is adopted by a state of strategy, and the fight against waste is obviously an essential component of this political struggle, of that vision and conception of the state and its relationship with society. Looking now at food waste, I will say that this Green Party initiative is welcome. It does not focus on the issues of inequality of access, whether age or social, in relation to food, it does not even focus on other aspects that we could debate today, but it focuses on a previous issue, at an amount, on the balance of resources, in the case of food resources. And we follow this initiative precisely because it is described, it is studied that there is a high degree of loss of these resources, which, in fact, is added to other elementary resources that are lost like water and others, but that we are not dealing with today. We understand that there must be a fight against this, which is difficult because the problem of food waste is correlated with the fact that there is programming on the part of large distribution and large production. It is that production and distribution on a scale promote waste because they eliminate competition. Therefore, waste is only a marginal invoice of the mechanism for the elimination of competition, which they have already done. This is the logic of the functioning of the current capitalist market. On this issue — and we have heard some echoes today — the right feels that there is a problem of corporate social responsibility and that there must be a co-responsibility in the food chain. Is that what you're doing? The large areas, more or less within the time limit for the validity of a food package, transfer us to private institutions of social solidarity, public schools, etc. , attempting to avoid the existence of waste. We do not dispute, but this gives the notion that combating waste, far from being an economic programme, is a care programme. in fact, we do not follow the concept or idea of society that is inherent in this program. in these circumstances, we took a lot of note in the draft resolution submitted by the Greens Ecological Party, the issue of environmental education, which is remarkable, because it inserts into itself an idea of citizenship, sharing, collective responsibility, social responsibility about the use of finite resources, as is the case with food, whether they are little or enough elaborate. Therefore, we follow this idea, until there are public policies that do not dominate any stage of this process in the food chain if there is not a quite strong cultural consciousness. Public policies must have strong cultural acquisitions in the population so that they are not, simply, an epiphenomena, a fire for the moment, without leading to any objective. For us the important thing is not that next year is dedicated to a campaign, the important thing is that a set of important notions is introduced in the school curriculum, that are re-updated cyclically in school and in programs about the need, not only to combine food well, to measure the quality of these foods well, but also to know how to dose resources that are finite and that are always dependent on the mother nature and for which there should be special respect for citizens and beings who exercise citizenship, that is, thinkers who form from school. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express our support for this initiative and, having a number of very positive and almost holistic views by the majority on this initiative by the Greens Ecological Party, we will see if the light of the day can be seen any initiative that converges with this desire, for this purpose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u30	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Inácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to first welcome the Greens Ecological Party for the draft resolution that brings us today. This is a fundamental issue today, and our ability to find solutions to this problem is fundamental to achieving together a distinguishing mark of our organizational capacity as a solidarity society. First of all, I address a first word, which has not yet been said in this debate and which seems to me extremely important and fair, to all the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), NGOs (non-governmental organizations) and multiple organizations that, in this country, from Algarve to the Minho, go through autonomous regions, work in a voluntary and altruistic way to combat food waste. These people must be exalted by all of us today, in this House. [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Members applauded.]] This draft resolution, which the Greens Ecologist Party brings today, meets those that have been the policies of the government in this area and, therefore, we have only to stand up. Focusing on the issue of food waste, I must say that this draft resolution presents multiple parallelisms with the National Plan to Combat Food Waste, which, as you know, was launched in October, and which can be synthesized in the document Prevent Food Waste — A commitment of all. It is important to underline these parallelisms, because it is important for this debate to talk about this National Plan and mention some of these measures. First, this Plan recognizes the existence of this problem, as the draft resolution presented today points out, and seeks to understand its causes. Then, well, it focuses a lot of your attention on education and awareness. It is essential to provide young people with the information needed so that they can develop an awareness of this problem and that they are the active contributors of the change of mindfulness, which is required in this matter. This plan deals, and in the area of production, with the establishment of protocols for the proper management of the surplus donation of agriculture, in particular with the creation on the Banco Aliar platform of an agricultural surplus bank; in the area of processing, which has also been mentioned today, with the development of codes of good practice that minimize food waste in the sector and promote sustainable management of resources; in the area of distribution and marketing, with the referral of surplus products to the IPSS ; in the area of communication, with the preparation of information and awareness sheets, the development of e-book with tips and suggestions for combating food waste, the development of programmatic content for the advanced training of teachers of the 1. o is 2. the cycles—of course, it has also been mentioned in this Chamber the importance of equipping teachers with tools to be able to work with the newer—or, moreover, academic, business and social initiative actions that have been implemented, particularly in school and university canteens, with excellent results. I also refer to the information area, providing for a study to assess and segmentate food waste in Portugal. This information will enable all decision makers to have a more detailed knowledge of reality, as the Greens Ecological Party today has defended, and well, thus defining lines of action for its prevention, approaching the waste of reuse, which will constitute a decisive step in the establishment of a national knowledge platform on food waste. It should also be said that this is not a government plan, it is not a plan of the Minister or of the Secretary of State. This is a country plan, because it was made with civil society, it was made with the representative associations of the sector, it was made with those who know and for those who need it. I would also like to say that this is a factual, interventional plan and let me stress once again, because it seems to me to be of particular relevance, the formative and educational nature of this plan. A note also, because it seems to us of particular relevance, to refer to the authorities and other agents who have carried out local plans to combat food waste. Also these authorities, these agents, and even some private, are decisive in the success of this fight. This problem demands from us actions, which we have taken, also requires a concerted effort among all the different projects, which will dictate the success of these actions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can always do better. This plan that the Government has put in place can and must be continuously improved, but we are acting to combat this problem and with the effort of all of us we are sure that we will be able to substantially reduce food waste in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, for what we have heard in this House today, as regards food waste, much more is what unites us than what separates us, which is to praise. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u32	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Combating and reducing food waste is also improving health. The state of health of a population is intrinsically linked to the type of food and lifestyle adopted. Changes in lifestyle and diet have led to the abandonment of diets rich in vegetables, naturally healthier and involving less food and environmental waste. in Europe, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) declared obesity as the epidemic of the 21st century. the lack of time and control over what is being eaten — and the issue of food security has already been addressed — has been a reality of fast food growth. It is believed that time is gained, but in fact, we waste health and quality of life. The excess consumption of packaging, which also relates to this situation, makes the environment worse. In Portugal, half of the population is overweight. The economic burden on obesity is about 3 % of the total health expenditure. According to a recent report published this week, 93% of Portuguese children ingest salt above WHO recommendations and more than half ingest salt above the tolerated. Combating food waste and improving health is also to value our gastronomic culture and the Mediterranean diet, which is up to Immaterial Heritage of Humanity, which has in its genesis the traditional values of conviving to the table, uniting the family and reducing food waste. Combating food waste is also better and more equitable management of resources and realize that they have an impact on social health determinants. contrary to what was said in this debate by Mr Bruno Coimbra, this was not the Government of combating waste; on the contrary, it wasted a good opportunity to act in the critical variables of improving the quality of life of the population: in response to the crisis, precariousness, poverty and inequality. Response to the crisis — this government has ignored that the crisis has created changes in habits in Portuguese families: less meat and fish and more fast food have been consumed and, in relation to food, the healthier are still more expensive than the less healthy. The government has also ignored the collateral damage to blind cuts, for example in the health sector. Precautionary also has a major effect on eating habits: stress caused, working hours, obesity. Awareness-raising for the eating problem at the workplace should have been a point of action over these four years. Also with regard to poverty and inequality, which has already been mentioned, we must not forget that 30 % of our elderly are undernourished and there are more than 300 000 Portuguese at risk of poverty and severe deprivation, which also includes food needs. Applications for aid to the Food Bank and the other IPSSs increased. To reduce food waste is to bet on prevention and education: Education for citizenship and health are also areas where this government has invested and we should create healthier habits in our population more and more early. The Socialist Party, already in 2011, presented two bills aimed at consolidating the school fruit regime and promoting food education and both had a negative response on the part of this majority. These initiatives have not been adopted and so far nothing has been done from a legislative point of view. Regarding this draft resolution of the Greens Ecological Party, which we generally follow, we note the important points in the health sector, from the development of youth ideas programs to combat food waste and the widespread knowledge of consumers in terms of health literacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In summating and concluding, we also live four years of waste in these matters! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u34	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u35	Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Freitas for the kind reference he made to my name in his speech — in fact, the tone of Mr Miguel Feitas' speech I fully subscribe to — but it is a medal for the worst reason. in these four years, the theme of food waste has not been a priority in this House, and should be. And I can't dissociate food waste from people's missing situations. I think it makes no sense to speak in waste if we do not associate it with situations of lack and need of people. In fact, we have millions of people around the world who cannot ensure daily the minimum food for their survival and we have millions of people around the world who manage it only with external food aid, do not manage it with their own means, either because they live in regions that, over time – and here we also have an environmental issue – have deserted themselves and have lost their ability to produce the food needed to sustain the people in them, or because they live in regions devastated by war and have been forced to flee, living in refugee camps without minimum conditions of survival and dependent on countries and institutions to provide their daily sustenance. In industrialized countries, millions of people also live in poverty because of unemployment and social marginalization, in many cases associated with unemployment. however, there is food waste. This food waste is serious not only from an environmental point of view but also from a humanitarian point of view, from the point of view of deprivation and waste of food resources for these millions of people who do not have access and desperately need them. Waste has several causes, among them: excess production of these resources in richer regions, resources, which are not properly channelled to the regions and populations most deprived; distribution networks and long chain of intermediaries that cause losses along this route and exacerbate the goods when they arrive to the final consumer; bad practices by the producer companies and the marketing companies of these products by promoting the sale of excess quantities of food, causing the waste by non-consumption of 10 %, 20 % and up to 30 % of the contents packaged in these packages; bad labelling by producers and manufacturers, associated with non-clarification — hence, iliteracy — of a large part of the consumer population in such simple things as the Greens, as the difference between 'before' and 'preferably up'; there is no clear public policies for collecting and distribution among the most deprived persons of the large areas of food supply, supply, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade, trade. in this respect, Europe and European policies have not properly associated food waste with shortage, because if, on the one hand, we are now beginning to talk in Europe and want to implement measures to combat food waste, on the other hand, not be associated with shortage, there are very strict European regulations in the food area and they often prevent the producer or manufacturer from better combating food waste, for example in the packaging, transport and labelling. worldwide, estimates FAO ( Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations ), which is wasted about one third of the food produced and in Europe is estimated to be waste annually between 30 % and 50 % of food in the food chain that measures the producer and the consumer. In Portugal, 2012 data estimate these losses by 17 %. Aware of this reality, the Government, through the Ministry of Agriculture and the Sea, has already taken various measures, both directly and through protocols with private institutions and the social sector, in particular with the institutions of social solidarity, with the Caritas, with distribution, large distribution and local retail establishments. I would like to highlight, among the measures taken by the Government, those relating to the area of production, the protocols we talked about and the creation of the Food Bank platform ; the area of transformation, with the development of the code of good practice; the area of education and communication, with the preparation of the information leaflets already mentioned here and with the elaboration of programmatic contents for advanced teacher training and 1. the cycle to be started in the next school year; the area of awareness and accountability, with the launch of the PRA-TØ initiative, which is the recognition of food waste prevention practices, a government connection with civil society; the area of regulation, agility and recognition, with the study of evaluation and segmentation of food waste in Portugal, suggesting proposals and lines of future action and in the promotion and marketing of local products and from family agriculture. This is the programme that the government has been implementing with results that are already very satisfactory on the ground and whose knowledge reaches us through the various actors involved in it. But the role of the authorities is also fundamental. It is also in this respect that authorities should intervene for their knowledge and for their proximity to the territory. in this context, I would like to highlight the pioneering experience of the Cascais Chamber, which had an initiative by the responsible, by this area, Dr. Mariana Ribeiro Ferreira, and in the present, in Lisbon, in another, deeper and broader context, highlight the initiative of CDS Member João Pedro Gonçalves Pereira, Municipal Commissioner for Combating Food Waste, who proposed a Municipal Plan to Combat Food Waste, which was approved in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon by unanimity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u36	Unanimously! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u37	Yes, unanimously. from this plan I highlight the following points of convergence: creation of a supportive food network with geographical coverage throughout the city, based on the distribution of recovered meals; Creation of the fight against food waste, in connection with more than 70 entities, with 24 meetings of parish, IPSS, universities, religious confessions and non-governmental organizations; realization of a multidimensional social, economic and environmental approach to food waste; Proposal for a more focused approach to action and less in pedagogy — there is such proximity to the territory that the authorities have and that sometimes escapes the governments ; Creation of a pilot project to be replicated in other municipalities. I will be pleased, if you will understand it, to have a municipal letter circulated already prepared so that the Members present here from the various regions of the country can bring to the knowledge of their authorities so that they can implement this project. This program was supported by FAO and ASAE and involved the creation of a telephone line, a volunteer bank and a good practice manual. I would like to say here that this programme is so pioneering that, being completed and implemented in all its aspects has already been declared a pioneer programme at the global level and is being followed up as a pilot programme at the global level by governments and authorities. I will end by addressing the Greens Ecological Party to tell you that this initiative is welcome and that we fully subscribe to it. Its recommendations are in part already being implemented by the Government and are already included in this Lisbon City Council programme. The Greens' initiative to bring the plenary, for approval, may serve not only as a recommendation to the Government, but as a script and inspiration for the authorities in this country outside. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u38	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Discussing food waste and efficient food management refers us first of all to an approach to production forms and productive sectors. The truth is that today, in Portugal and Europe, while many find it difficult to make adequate food or even to feed, much production remains in the farms to be collected. The first approach to be made is to know how it works, with what direction and with what objectives production in Portugal. Are farmers producing food according to the country's needs? What strategy is oriented in this regard? We quickly come to a conclusion: there is no strategy or, worse, there is the strategy of not having a strategy to allow these markets to be — which is like those who say economic interests — to guide production.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u41	The examples that confirm what we say are several, such as, for example, the largest public investment ever made in the agri-food sector, the Alqueva project. It was the fact that Spanish entrepreneurs wanted to produce olive oil that orientated for the installation in Alqueva of the olive mass there. Another example of the deliberate lack of strategy is the government's objective of assuming the balance of the agri-food balance, but only in value. That is, the Government is concerned only that what the country exports is worth enough to cover the costs of what matters. For the Government and for this objective to be achieved, it is enough for the country to specialize in the production of two or three products, which the rest will buy-CL abroad. The only problem is that this strategy calls into question, on a large scale, the sovereignty of the country. The truth is that for those who so much are in Brussels without daring to raise a finger as food sovereignty must say very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u42	Mr. João Oliveira ( PCP): - - Very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u43	It is very clear that for the Government, the current and previous, the role of agriculture is not at first hand the satisfaction of the country's food needs; agriculture is only another economic sector. These options and policies are not what the country needs. The country, despite a degree of food self-sufficiency that will be around 70 % and despite being self-sufficient in half a dozen products, is highly deficient in some strategic products. The country imports about 50 % of beef, 35 % of pigmeat — of which it has already produced 90 % — 55 % of potato, 30 % of fruit, 93 % of dried beans, 90 % of bikini, 88 % of cereals and among these 96 % of wheat. The example of wheat is flagrant in this relationship of dependence on the outside: the country produces only 4 % of the wheat it consumes and the main wheat supplier was Ukraine in 2013. This gives us the dimension of the fragility of this model. Another option that needs to be implemented has to do with the sustainability of resources. The land for agricultural production is limited and the usable agricultural area has been reduced, so proper use of soil is not only necessary to ensure the country's future. Production models based on intensive and superintensive exploitation that seek fast, high and with high land depletion capacity, or the subject of the introduction of forest production into agricultural and irrigation fields that have been talked about and to enhance, in particular with the law of eucalyptization, are good contributions to land depletion and to the reduction of the agricultural area. in this context, family agriculture, small and medium-sized agriculture are those that use resources more balancedly, either through a vast cultural diversification and incomes, or because it produces locally what is consumed locally and almost always better quality products, in addition to its population fixar potential. But to food production and use is linked to another matter: distribution. The distribution makes a big contribution to promoting industrial carous farming, since, by destroying small and medium-scale production through price depletion, it leaves only room for industrial production. And the large distribution represents 70% of this activity in our country. The Government was obliged to assume the existence of this problem of predation of production by distribution for the evidence it presented, but it did not resolve it. The Government continues with the PARCA(Agri-Food Chain Relations Monitoring Platform ) in its mouth and the large distribution with free hands to pay and impose whatever you want and whenever you want. In addition, the large distribution is the visible face of normalization of the products, in which the size and brightness are worth more than the quality or origin of the product. This standardisation process has been responsible for leaving out of commercial circuits and consumption circuits significant quantities of food. Thus, direct production sales measures enable the consumer to access fresher products, tending to be of better quality and of which the origin is known. These measures will not be the solution to all problems in the flow of small and medium-sized agriculture, but they will make their contribution. The Parliamentary Group of the CFP accompanies the concerns and proposals of the Greens Ecological Party. An organized, modern and sovereign country must ensure the food of its citizens, seeking to achieve self-sufficiency as much as possible. Measures to take advantage of all the resources that involve the rejection of taxes that limit the possibility of consumption making the aspect of content more prevalent must be combated. Sovereignty, in its various aspects, does not dispense with food sovereignty and it is incompatible with an exclusively economic view of agriculture which leaves out its importance for the satisfaction of the country's food needs; incompatible with a definition of agricultural policy and food production soon, defined from outside and by market principles that leave out the previously exposed concerns; and incompatible with the absence of a national agricultural policy, with a strategic approach and which should guide definitions and decisions on agri-food production. This is what the country lacks and is also an integral part of what the CFP calls a patriotic and left-wing policy and that we will be available to put it into practice, so that is the will of the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u44	Before giving the floor to Mr Nuno Serra, I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who have made silence in the House, because it is very loud and it becomes very difficult to hear the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are speaking. Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u45	Ex. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by complimenting the Green Party on the subject of debate today, to point out its importance and to recognize the consensus that this matter achieves both in this House and in our society. I am sure that we all agree on the need to combat food waste. However, despite this awareness, the individual and collective actions of man maintain high levels of food waste. The problem continues to resist and persist, and for this reason the importance of this debate here today, the importance of the visibility that we bring to this issue today, which has an enormous relevance in raising society's awareness of the fight against food waste. One U.S. university estimated that in 2012 every inhabitant would, on average, waste 300 kg of food worldwide. in the same sense, FAO points out that in 2013 the total food waste represented approximately 30 % of the world's commercial agricultural area, at an annual cost of $750 billion. They're impressive numbers. And more impressive because they are average references, which means that in certain areas of the Globe waste is even greater. in fact, while certain regions of the world struggle for the increase of food for their undernourished populations, Europe and the United States of America waste 30% and 50% respectively of edible food throughout the chain from producer to consumer. Another publication alerts that less than one quarter of the food currently being wasted in Europe and the United States would be sufficient to feed about 800 million people suffering from chronic hunger worldwide. in the European Union, the annual loss is about 89 million tonnes, equivalent to 179 kg per capita, distributed by : consumers — 42 %; industry — 39 %; restoration — 14 %; and distribution — 5 %. In Portugal, the known calculations are smaller, but therefore not less serious. Studies in 2012 show that over the chain waste represents 17 % of annual food production, with an economic value of about 1 million tonnes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current levels of food waste, more than an economic, environmental and political-social issue, are above all a moral and ethical issue. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In the face of increasing pressure on food production efficiently, i.e. to produce more with less resources, to satisfy the increase of the world population estimated at over 9 billion by 2050, it is essential that food waste levels be reduced. Along with the challenge of humanity to feed a world population at a high rate of growth, increasingly distant from the rural world and concentrated in urban areas, it is making food accessible to all inhabitants, regardless of the region in which it lives. in fact, the current volume of waste contributes to strong pressure on resources and food prices, making it difficult to access them by the most disadvantaged. To combat food waste is therefore also to combat the problem of hunger and social inequalities in access to essential goods, such as food products. in the PSD, we have been aware of this issue for a long time and since we have been addressing this issue in several forums. We consider it useful to have an extended debate so that appropriate public policies are built to deal with this issue. Because it is a cross-cutting problem, there are several actions that contribute to reducing such waste in food and, as such, we welcome the attitude of the Government in addressing the problem, in presenting innovative and comprehensive solutions. The legislative change in restrictive trade practices or the deadline for payment to producers by the distribution are examples of measures which are not directly involved in the consumption chain, allowing greater equity between producers and distributors, reducing the pressure on producers in the flow of products and consequently a decrease in waste. On the other hand, the promotion of proximity markets that we have been defending day by day, as a means of cutting products from small productions without alternatives on large surfaces, is another measure that contributes to the fight against waste. In Portugal, where family farming and small productions prevail, it is common for small producers not to enter into contracts with the main distribution channels, having difficulty in the flow of products and causing food waste. Therefore, in the PSD we have defended the promotion of proximity markets in order to extend forms of trade, particularly for small producers, allowing a new form of local economic dynamics. In addition, it has already been mentioned here, with regard to the revision of the Co-operative Code, the importance of cooperatives in opening more commercial channels, but also in distributing food surpluses. Other measures have been promoted by the Government in order to stimulate society in a common co-responsibility on behalf of a more just and equal society, thus responding in advance to the European Parliament's challenge to propose 2014 as the European Year against Food Waste. Currently, actions are being developed in Portugal at the level of production, transformation, distribution and marketing, education and communication, awareness and responsibility and regulation, agility and recognition. in fact, when we see that more than one third of waste is in our homes, we realize that solutions also have to undergo a change in consumption habits and a practical awareness about what we are wasting. in our view, there is still much work to be done and, as such, we do not consider today's debate and the measures put forward to be an end, but one more step, an extremely positive step, towards a warning about this cause. This is a cross-cutting issue to society as a whole, and it is our duty as politicians to set the example in raising awareness, alerting and combating food waste. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that four years have passed since we are in this House. For four years, the parties have diverged in economic, financial, political and social issues, but today I think this is a time to remember. It's because today, for a greater cause, the parties are on the same side. Let everyone know to be aware of this, that this is an example for society and for the collective awareness of this problem. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u46	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « There is real freedom only when there is peace, bread, housing, health, education». I quote the song of Sergio Godinho and I ask myself: why is it that only the "right to eat" of all fundamental rights has not been included in our Constitution? This is not so, because we well know that, not explicitly, there is a reference to the Charter of Human Rights made in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. I begin here because the issue of waste refers us to the need to ensure the right to access to food to all and, if the question of reducing waste should be a political objective, then the « right to food» must be at the centre of this Parliament's attention as a fundamental right. Because waste and hunger, food shortages and malnutrition, distribution of incomes, inequalities and poverty, are part of the same equation we do not let ourselves remain by ideas made, by the symbolic dimension or by moral feelings. Let us turn from words to acts, because it is always easier to isolate problems, to be vaguely recommended, to compromises without goals, to leave legislative initiatives in the course of the days and, worse than that, not to look at the existing legislative framework. Interestingly, in the Draft Study and Reflection on Food Waste ( PERDA ), it is stated that, from a legislative point of view, it is necessary to facilitate the donation or use of food, « to analyse and overcome the obstacles posed by the various standards relating to civil responsibility, public health, food hygiene and consumer protection and that may eventually be overcome by a legislative consolidation that eradicates some of the remaining contradictions ». at a time when legislative consolidation finally passed practice in this Parliament, that is an interesting challenge. But it is clear that the issue of food waste, in addition to an ethical issue, is, above all, a consequence of our economic and ecological model. And, being a global issue, it can only be resolved through regional and local solutions. In important matters such as climate change or energy issues, Europe is extremely ambitious and assumes global leadership. However, in the matter of the greatest relevance to universal development as is the fight against food waste, which is very important for combating hunger — one of the Millennium Goals — what is Europe doing? Discuss, too, simple recommendations. It should go further and assume, also in this process, world leadership in combating food waste and hunger. Thus, a new directive on circular economy is expected by the end of this year. This directive may mark a change, a new stimulus for a sustainable economic model for Europe, on the way of zero waste, with the exploitation of products in chains, passing from a pattern of growth of type "extract-manufacture-consumer-out", based on the assumption that resources are abundant, for a circular economy system that maintains the added value of products for as long as possible and eliminates waste from a perspective of sustainable development. When it comes to the 200 million people who could be fed with food deliberately wasted every day in Europe, there must be the perception of the thousands of hectares of soil, of the thousands of tons of fertilizers and pesticides, of the millions of litres of water, of the tens of thousands of lives of domestic and marine animals that are also wasted with these foods, of the impacts on biodiversity, environmental health and ecosystem services, which are also wasted due to the economic and social inefficiency which has become systemic. The planned food waste is not only a problem of a social or humanitarian urgency, it is also a major failure of ours in terms of protecting our common heritage, in origin, where everything begins, as well as in the ecosystems and human communities that manage them and of which they depend for their welfare and social and economic prosperity. Our obsession with perfection sometimes generates attitudes that, more than sterile, are counterproductive and damage the most fragile social tissues. The question of fruit and vegetables, calibrated according to rules that have little to do with their nutritional quality, is one of the main sources of waste in origin, either by the adoption of agricultural management practices or by the marketing rules. The same applies to fishing and so-called 'accidental catches' or 'unsuitable'. Countless tons of fish and other marine beings are captured, eventually dying and cleared offboard, and many of these species are already seriously threatened in terms of their economic viability and even their own existence. Again, we are talking about waste supported by our own economic system. It is essential that in incentives for fisheries and agricultural production we can identify practices that damage our biological resources, induce losses of economic value in the short, medium and long term and contribute to artificializing the price of food products that so often end up wasted and result in exponential erosion of natural capital, as well as practices that can print new dynamics to productive systems, more competitive and turned on export markets, without leaving behind the small agriculture and small fishing that work for local markets and communities. Another key aspect to consider is the integration of activities, in a reinforced logic of what can be the circular economy in Portugal and a new technological model. Reindustrialization does not have to depend on the same already tested formula of heavy and intensive industries in terms of resource exploitation, which essentially generate low-skilled jobs and, frankly, paid in values that cannot pride any civilized economy of the 21st century. Portugal has a brutal potential for the development of the circular economy through biotechnology, environmental and ecological engineering, new knowledge in key areas of strategic management and much more. We have the generation of scientists and professionals more qualified than ever before, but we act with the same industrial mentality of the 1960s. It is necessary to create the necessary conditions for companies to promote the emergence and development of new ideas and concepts of production chain and generation of shared value. But the issue of waste is also a consequence of the food pattern, lifestyles and consumption habits and these depend heavily on individual choices. In Portugal, many have been the initiatives at the end of the value chain, in particular for the re-use of out-of-term food and for the donation of surplus meals in restaurants and public canteens. The initiative has been on the side of civil society. Moreover, I would like to highlight the work of the Order and the Association of Portuguese Nutritionists in the dissemination of this cause. The recognition by UNESCO of the Mediterranean Diet as a World Heritage Site and of Tavira as a city welcoming this design should be taken advantage of to promote a change in consumption patterns in Portugal and to raise consumer awareness. The European initiative does not waste our future too! with eleven partners from seven countries, having the In Loco Association as a Portuguese entity involved, as well as the municipalities of Loulé and S. Brás, it deserves a reference, the immediate result of which will be the European Charter of Young People and Local Authorities Against Food Waste, which will be presented on 22 October at the Milan Expo, dedicated to the theme of food sovereignty, in which, as you know, Portugal will not be present in a wrong decision of this Government. Moreover, and ending with the fact that Parliament has so far been almost absent from this movement of Portuguese society, at a time when there is an enormous consensus in this plenary, that this debate serves to mark a starting point for what needs to be done in the legislative process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I have listened very carefully to the interventions that have been produced by the various banks and there is a question that I feel I need to clarify. When we're talking about fighting food waste, we all need to be aware that we're not talking about little charity and welfare.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u50	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u51	I see several ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, with your head, and this is important. It is important that fighting food waste is not giving the leftovers to the poor—it is important that this be very clear! — it is to ensure that everyone has access to food that already exists. And that is why it is so important for us in the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the fight against unemployment, the Portuguese wage conditions or the provision of school meals in schools, finally, a whole set of issues related to this matter of food waste and food security. And, therefore, I would like to leave this little or great clarification here in this debate. Then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there have been several benches that highlighted the issue of the fight against food waste in this Parliament which has not entered the parliamentary agenda. It was precisely on this issue that the Greens today also tried to address: to bring to the parliamentary agenda an extraordinarily important issue on the issue of sustainability. But I want to say that the Greens have already presented various projects related to this subject, including the projects for the conduct of the national food survey, for the regulation of advertising to food products for children and young people, for the provision of public canteens with local food products or for the provision of breakfast in school support. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was important to structure a project in order to get this into the parliamentary agenda. On the other hand, Mr. Miguel Freitas, I have to penalise myself or penitentiary myself, perhaps, because, meanwhile, I noticed that Mr. Jorge Fão answered in a much more objective and direct way to the first question I had asked, in order to know why the creation of a National Year of Combating Food Waste. Somewhere in his speech, Mr Jorge Fão said: "There is much to be done in this matter". That is the reason why this proposal from the Greens is being adopted! I would also like to say to the PSD the following: they have talked a lot about the action plan, which is the guide I spoke about, which I did not forget, of course, in this debate, nor could I do so, but attention, because this is what they call 'action plan', is rather a plan of principles, since it does not set concrete goals, neither annual nor multiannual, and it is necessary to take that step. That is what I said recently, that is to say, we have to move from the plan of principles to the plan of practice, and that is what the Greens have come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic. Then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that contributions which seem to me to be very relevant here, such as the question of fishing, the need for more selective arts, the need for better conservation conditions, among other sets of issues mentioned here, are given, and it is important to have the perception of all the dimensions of food production for the objectives of combating food waste that we have in mind. I would like to highlight only two more aspects, one of which is the face we need to face the European Union with regard to its inconsistencies and inconsistencies in food waste, as has already been mentioned. They also declared a year like the European Year of Food Waste and little or nothing has been done in this matter. On the other hand, they also take it as an objective, but they lay down certain rules for the presence of certain foods on the market as fruits and vegetables, where they associate the quality of the product with its size and calibration, which has nothing to do with strictly nothing and which greatly contributes to major food waste logics. This is something that needs to be fought in our perspective, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u52	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to make some silence so that we can hear the honourable Member's conclusions. You would like to continue, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I was saying, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to appeal and, more than to appeal, to act within the European Union to ensure that these rules, which ultimately contribute to the increase of food waste, are furnished, so that we can guarantee quality food, provided to the whole population, without waste, of course, or fighting waste to the maximum. Just one more question for which I would like to draw attention and which was not much debated here, which is the issue of packaging. Ladies and gentlemen. Members will bear in mind that the Greens have repeatedly brought their concern about what the market offers at packaging level to the Assembly of the Republic. We brought here a concrete project that did not have to do with food packaging, but, yes, with other products, absolutely unnecessary packaging that fills the waste market, from what goes directly to the waste. On the food component, what we've checked is something more or less similar, but it's not just about the packaging itself, but about its content. These packages are made up of supply to the consumer, with a huge amount of product, what I called'hyperfamily packages', not suitable for the various family dimensions, and people, having no other option, buy that dimension of packaged product, but then end up feeding only on the part they need to feed their family, their family size, and eventually throw the rest away. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to regulate the market with regard to packaging. We are talking about extraordinarily relevant things from the point of view of their environmental impact, both upstream and downstream, with the production of waste. And I believe that this House must definitely look at this matter with great seriousness. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was pleased, in fact, we Greens were pleased with the discussion here. It has given me the feeling, but now it will follow the vote, that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of this draft resolution of The Greens, or at least enable it, and this unanimity will be important for this project to be a start-up step, for the dynamisation of the matter of combating food waste in Portugal, which, as I said, is a social and environmental design that we must all welcome in our political action. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-03.u54	Mrs. Members, with no further inscriptions and using the authors of the initiative the prerogative to proceed to the vote on the draft resolution at the end of the debate, I request the services that act on the electronic system to be able to carry out the verification of the quorum of deliberation. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Members, who, for any reason, cannot do so, will have to signal to the Bureau and we appreciate that they then sign with the services to make the presence register, so that their presence is considered at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 181 meetings, to which 20 are added, by 201 Members, and therefore we have quorum to vote. Thank you to the ladies. Members who have not registered to sign with the services so as not to be missed at the meeting. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1506 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Combating food waste to promote efficient food management ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This concludes our agenda today, but not yet the work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 4 June, we will meet for 3 p.m. The agenda results from a marking of the PSD and, in general, the proposals of lein.o 338 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the General Scheme of the Civil Protection Process, 339 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September and 340 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code and approves the Legal Rules of the Adoption Process and Bill No 975 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend Articles 1905. the Civil Code and 989. the Civil Procedure Code ( PS ) and also draft resolution No 1505 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government some measures to be taken in amending the Act regulating the Child and Youth Protection Committees as well as in amending the legal regulations contained in the Civil Code relating to the adoption and establishment of a Legal Scheme for the Adoption Process ( PS ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 17 minutes.]]
