ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 11 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we get on the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the right thing to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted by the President: draft resolutions 1457 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the mechanisms for affecting the eligible area of buckets for access to Community aid ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1458/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the suspension of the classification attributed in PDM to space between Birre, Village of Juzo and Areia ( Cascais ) while the risk of full is not assessed by ANPC ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1459 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent and complete resolution of environmental problems in São Pedro da Cova ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1460 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the evaluation of Law No 60 / 2009 of 6 August, in particular as regards the extension of the competence framework, modalities and financing of information offices and support in the field of education for sexual health and education ( PS ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1461 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate suspension of procedures for the granting of caulinos in Soure and Pombal ( BE ) and 1462 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure full access to electricity and gas by families with economic difficulties ( BE ). They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 897 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 9 / 2008 of 19 February, which regulates the exercise of the right of association by the staff of the Maritime Police, pursuant to Law No 53 / 98 of 18 August ( PCP ), which falls to 3. the Commission, and 898 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Co-operative code ( PSD and CDS-PP. Moreover, the proposals of lein. 324 / XII ( 4 ) were put into the Bureau. ( a ) — Amended third Act No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims, which falls to 1. the Commission, 325 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The thirty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September fully transposed Directives 2008 / 99 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on the protection of the environment by criminal law and 2009 / 123 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 amending Directive 2005 / 35 / EC on pollution by ships and the introduction of sanctions in the event of infringements, which is lower than 1. the Commission, 326 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new legal regime for the access and exercise of insurance and reinsurance activity as well as the procedural regimes applicable to special crimes in the insurance sector and pension funds and counter-ordinations the processing of which is the responsibility of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority, transposing Directive 2009 / 138 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 down to 5. the Commission, and 327 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defines the rules for the financing of humanitarian firefighter associations on the continent as firefighter bodies, which fall to 1. the Commission. Madam President, I will also take note of a report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication, which has been approved unanimously in the Commission and must be voted on immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u3	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u4	The report of the Commission on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication refers to the replacement under Article 5 ( 2 ( b ). the Statute of Deputies, invoking the exercise of parental leave by Jorge Machado ( PCP ), elected by the electoral circle of Porto, being replaced by the impediment of candidates who followed him on his list, by Maria de Lurdes Monteiro Ribeiro, the first candidate not elected, with effect from 12 May, including. The opinion is for the purpose of the temporary replacement required by Mr Jorge Machado should be authorised under Article 5 ( 2 ( b ). that of the Statute of Members and that the vacancy resulting from the suspension of the mandate as determined by Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). the Statute of the Deputies, should be completed by Maria de Lurdes Monteiro Ribeiro from 12 May 2015, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs Maria de Lurdes Monteiro Ribeiro, I welcome you and you can now take a seat in the Plenary. That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take the agenda from the first item of political statements. The order of inscriptions is as follows: PCP, Left Block, PSD, PS and CDS-PP. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of noise in the Chamber, I ask you to take your seats so that the first speaker can make the political statement. [[Pause.]] For a political statement, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u6	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: The business package that the Government is launching at the terminal phase of its mandate has now reached the privatisation processes of EMEF (the Railway Equipment Maintenance Company, S.A.) and CP Cargo. With their diplomas published a few days ago, this operation represents a new and more serious stage in the process of winding up the national rail sector. The Constitution points out as fundamental tasks at the economic level for the « Coexistence of the public sector, the private sector and the cooperative and social sector owned by the means of production » and for « Public ownership of natural resources and means of production, in accordance with the collective interest ». Once again, it is confirmed that the Government is involved in an effective public sector destruction process. The Government refers these proceedings to legal decrees as a « reprivatisation ». These companies were created in 1993 ( EMEF ) and 2008 ( CP Cargo ), always operating as public enterprises. We therefore have to say that the government will "re- privatize" what has never been private, showing a speech and a practice that does not resist the confrontation with reality. Privatization of these companies would contribute even more to the spraying of the railway system, a process that generates increasing costs for the State and significant losses in the security and reliability of the operation. The privatisation of EMEF, which has been prepared with the manufacturers of circulating material, would place the country even more dependent on these multinationals, when what is required is a rupture with the path of national decline and the affirmation of another path that bets on national production. It is in this framework that the maintenance, repair and production of circulating material is a strategic activity for the country. For the most part when the railway tends to take on increasing importance in passenger and freight transport systems and when the country is confronted with the need for medium-term investments of hundreds of millions of euros in its rolling stock and equipment. Privatization would put CP Load to the service of the production of profits of any economic group, for which it would be indifferent to the real gains that the company has brought to the country and would leave the country without a strategic instrument — the rail transport of goods — condemned to pay income to the economic groups that dominated the sector. Today we see the way in which the private company created by Mota Engil drags itself into the sector, despite being objectively benefited in many operational and other situations, such as in terms of circulation, etc. , always complaining more and more of the state, promoting a brutal exploitation of the labour force and creating debts to public enterprises. The CFP has aroused the parliamentary appreciation of these diplomas in which the Government intends to impose this economic crime against key railway sectors in Portugal, but here we want to draw attention to the importance of the proposal we have recently presented in this House in defence of the national railway road, by the reunification and integrated management of the railway, against its liquidation and dismemberment. The railway has a future in Portugal in a public, modernised CP, at the service of the country and the national economy, not with this policy of dismantling and selling to the parts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As with EMEF and CP Cargo, also in TAP, flag airline, the government's policy is being a betrayal to the national interest and an attack on our sovereignty. The CFP reaffirms that the situation experienced in the TAP over the last few weeks is inseparable from the government's goal of privatizing it, delivering it into the hands of economic and financial groups. Despite further attempts to identify other leaders, the government and its policy is the main destabilization factor of the TAP, as a public and strategic enterprise for national interests. The truth is that the main threat to the present and future of the TAP is the PSD/CDS government and the right-wing policy. This is the case when the so-called low cost companies are allowed to be financed with public resources, while denying such financing to TAP ; when drastic limitations are imposed on the hiring of staff, harming the company's response and even leading to the cancellation of large hundreds of flights, as happened last summer; when the privatisation of ANA Airports takes place by placing its main customer, TAP, renouncing the interests of the new owner, the multinational Vinci. Despite more manoeuvres that can be developed, it is the government and the right-wing policy that threaten and compromise the future of TAP. We are still in time to stop these privatizations and these ruinous measures for the country's interest! For the present stabilization and future development of the company, what is needed is clearly to assume TAP as a public, strategic company for the country, for the civil aviation sector, for tourism and for the economy, for territorial cohesion, for the connection to Portuguese communities, for national sovereignty. PCP defends: That public undertakings, and in particular the TAP, be released from the management restrictions currently imposed by the Government ; Supporting TAP in solving the problem of the former VEM ( Varig Engineering and Maintenance ), now referred to as Maintenance Brazil ; To invest in the maintenance of TAP, modernising it, extending staff and facilities; Ending instability in handling / assistance on scale and strengthening the connection of SPdH ( Portuguese Handling Services, S.A. ) TAP; That the capitalisation needs of the TAP be addressed and that public support and financing for the competing TAP companies are terminated. The CFP will continue its struggle and intervention to achieve this goal, fighting blackmails, mistifications and provocative operations, and affirming another strategy committed to national interests. By 22 this month, we have scheduled the debate of these proposals, of these concrete solutions which can and should now be taken as an alternative way for the construction of a better future for the company and its role in the economy and national sovereignty. Once again we say here: the fight is inevitable! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to ask you questions, the honourable Members are registered. Mr Nuno Matias, PSD, Hélder Amaral, CDS-PP, Pedro Filipe Soares, the Left Block, and Rui Paulo Figueiredo, the PS. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are at the beginning of the debate, it is time to remember that we must respect the time of intervention. As Mr Nuno Matias wishes to answer one by one, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u10	Madam President, I begin by congratulating Mr Bruno Dias on the subject he brings us. Mr Bruno Dias said that the government is the main destabilization factor for TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u11	Affirmative!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u12	My first question is very clear: do you not understand that there is no greater destabilization factor than having a company that in 2014 had a negative net result of EUR 46 million and has now had a pilot union which in 10 days, by its words, has caused a loss of EUR 35 million? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What became clear in your speech is that there is a line that divides us from an ideological and logical point of view: you understand that property is the reason for the development of economic activity, even in a strategic sector; we understand that it is management, the need for the definition of the concept of public service and the monitoring of the fulfilment of that requirement and that concept. Now that's what the government is looking to do at EMEF, CP Cargo, TAP. In fact, it is important to say that the Communist Party itself, even last week, through its Secretary-General in the framework of the 15-year debate, stated periodically that its alternative of public recapitalisation had been exemplary, for example, in parallel in Poland.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u13	False! Don't start with lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u14	What's important to mention...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u15	Look what you're going to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u16	... is whether or not it is true, and this is also the question I leave to you, that in Poland the restructuring of LOT led to 833 redundancies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u17	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u18	You're serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u19	... a reduction of fleet, from 59 to 30 aircraft, and a reduction of routes in order of 24. It is either not true that your proposal, your supposed alternative, leads to inevitable restructuring...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u20	No, don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u21	... and, therefore, the example that was used by the Secretary-General of the PCP shows that the only alternative that allows to grow TAP, develop its activity, defend its workers, is a strategic and demanding privatization, that continues to affirm the company as a flag company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u22	I would like to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u23	...as much flag company as British Airways, which has no public capital. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u24	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u25	Mr President, Mr Nuno Matias, I would like to thank the questions raised and, in order to meet the time available, I will focus on three essential points. First point: the government is the main responsible for the instability situation that is happening in the TAP. He's the chief in charge! Tell me, Mr, if you know, do you believe that perhaps there is no privatisation process this was happening? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u26	Well, no more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u27	How many strikes have there been in the TAP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u28	Tell me if you believe, or if, perhaps, someone in this Chamber believes, that we would be facing the situation that we are going through, if it had not been triggered at the level of the government, this criminal privatisation that you want to carry out? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That's why we say that if they stopped privatizing TAP, this wasn't happening. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I am going further, Mr Member : it is important to denounce here what happened at the airports in Portugal these days, during a pilot strike, which was the passengers of the TAP arrive at the airport and, instead of being informed of the strike and sent to the hotels or their houses, to be sent to the boarding doors. There's someone interested in this instability! The passengers were confronted, in an irresponsible way, by a higher orientation, with an even more serious situation, to aggravate the problems they were facing. [[PSD protests.]] Who's decided that, sir? Who decided that? We're here to file a complaint, someone will show up as responsible! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Nuno Matias says that the main criterion is not the property of companies, it is the management. You will say that, Mr. Member, to the workers of the Faro scale, who were from TAP, then moved to SPdH / Groundeforce and today are on the street, because the handling companies were privatized...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u30	... and, when TAP's handling was privatized, everyone said the jobs were safeguarded, as they said the jobs were safeguarded at ANA Airports. Now let us tell the workers of the former Portway, the operators of the telescopic bridges, who, with the same management of ANA Airports, with the same managers, are now confronted with a wild dismissal,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... because the property is different and with the multinationals don't play.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u31	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u32	Madam President, next I will talk about restructuring, because I have a lot to say about that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u33	To put questions, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u34	Madam President, Mr Bruno Dias, I will try not to use terms like 'wild' or another more aggressive term,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u35	You've used it! It's just said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u36	...because I understand that the debate even deserves some serenity and some pedagogy. But let's not confuse terms...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u37	For you, only strikes are wild!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u38	I was trying not to use any less parliamentary terms and be heard. The honourable Member said, 'We are still going on time' and we are going on time! I still have a slight hope to see, at the bottom of the Portuguese Communist Party, some sense of patriotic and left-wing politics, saying that it does not agree with the strike of the TAP pilots, this, yes, causes a financial damage not only to the company and the country, but to the image of the country and essentially to colleagues workers, because it questions the future of the company. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u39	On this matter, you say nothing, not even that it is a strike which presupposes that workers participate in the capital of the company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u40	You were sleeping on Friday morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u41	... that is, what the pilots really want is to have a part in privatization and, therefore, they are not against privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u43	Let us therefore put the question to the true terms in which it arises. Mr President, I would like to tell you very clearly that it is obvious that I respect the ideological position of the Portuguese Communist Party, that all companies should be public. But it happens that not only in the TAP, but also in the CP, on 16 April, nearly 4000 trains were removed due to the strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u44	Or he doesn't know what he says or he's deliberately lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u45	Do you know what is the biggest contribution to the increase in market share in private companies? It's the strikes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u46	Well, no more!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u47	Do you know what is the greatest contribution to jeopardizing public enterprises? It's the strikes! Do you know what is the greatest contribution to jeopardizing the workers' future and the ability to make these companies generate economics and more jobs? It is exactly a position of the unresponsive and unscientific unions! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u48	If you are able to recognize that, perhaps we can start talking. What you should start by saying here is what you have always said: we understand that there can be public and private companies. So are we! We understand that there can be good public companies and good private companies. What the State is doing, in the case of the CP, is privatizing only one part. Subscribe to the importance of rail to the country, subscribe to the strategic importance of rail, but do not intend to entangle us with ideological arguments and then whitewash everything that should not whiten out, for example,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u49	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u50	I will finish, Madam President. ... as for example, what happens in the Port Metro, in matters of strike and passenger gain, and what happens in other transport models, where strikes kill any credibility of that same transport. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u51	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u52	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, with the exception of a mistake, he said even now that this strike occurred was not against the privatisation of TAP. I'll check your criteria: when there was a strike against the privatisation of TAP, you didn't wait for the minimum services, immediately made an illegal civil request, violating the Constitution and the fundamental laws of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u54	But what illegal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u55	So you see who was interested in the instability that now lived, so you see who was interested in the situation with which the passengers were confronted, when they were sent to the boarding doors for flights that were not marked.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u57	They do not come to talk about strikes and impacts to the country, when everyone immediately realizes that, in a framework of canceling the privatisation of TAP, we were not confronted with the current situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u59	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u60	On the other hand, with regard to operational problems, cancelled flights and damage to the company, I would like to challenge the Members. Members will review what was the record of the meetings with Mr President of TAP, when we evaluated here in this House the real chaos that occurred in the company, with the situation of lack of personnel, the lack of pilots, planes that did not work, of canceled flights, of people who arrived at airports in the summer and were confronted with cancellation of flights. What were the strikes at that time? Oh, my God! What happened was that the government authorized the hiring of personnel, crew and maintenance personnel for six months.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u61	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u62	It is the government, once again, year after year, that remains the main factor of destabilization and instability of the company. They talk about restructuring as if it were a knife pointed to the workers, but here it should be remembered that restructuring even happened in the TAP in the 1990s, prepared by the PSD / Cavaco Silva government and implemented by the PS / Guterres government. at that time, what we had was the collective contract suspended, frozen, the successive regime, cuts in wages, workers faced with a brutal attack on their rights. For what? For privatization! Today, as in 1995, we are about to cancel this process and this can be the factor that will save TAP because, as at the time, the flag airline, which was Sabena, was sold to Swissair and no longer exists, if TAP had been sold to Swissair no longer existed. Therefore, if the TAP today comes the privatisation cancelled, we are, yes, fulfilling a patriotic and left-wing measure, Mr. Hélder Amaral. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u63	To put questions, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u64	Madam President, Mr Bruno Dias, I welcome you for your intervention and start by taking on the hot topic of the answers you have had to give to the questions of the majority, because that is exactly what touches them at the heart of your will, which is the privatisation of TAP. It is at least curious that this government is trying to strike the responsibility for the financial situation of TAP. It's, at least, curious! It is to pour water into a situation that we realize that, in practice, it only serves to give birth to a fog that results in hiding people the essential. Otherwise, I ask you: half of TAP's debt comes from what? the workers, the operation of the TAP or management choices that, for example, in the maintenance company that was acquired in Brazil, have a hole of 500 million euros? Oh, my God! What's the reality? It is that we speak of EUR 30 million in loss of this strike and hide the EUR 500 million in a choice of management, made by political decision and without any technical charities, is to try to divert the attention of this latter situation and use the strike as an argument for the ideological vision that the government wants to have on the TAP. The privatization of the TAP, which is the will of this government, serves only and only to put the TAP flying low, with no objective of any defense of the country's strategic interest and laying down by land the quality of the professionals either of the routes and times that TAP has to present to the country and to the world. That is why destroying what is all of us is indeed the government's agenda. And so it is in the TAP, now trying to throw the blame on the pilots and on a strike that we have already said not to accompany in their motivation, but that we do not accept that it is used for this ideological and propaganda aspect of the government, to impose privatization and its agenda at the expense of reality. And the reality is that the will of privatization is already old, it comes from governments since Cavaco Silva and always with the same narrative, always saying that the TAP was unsustainable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u65	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u66	I conclude, Madam President. ... always saying that TAP had no future. But TAP has won every government and every will of privatization and will also win this government and its agenda. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u67	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u68	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, brought here to our discussion an unmistakable example of the financial situation and the problems of the TAP, which is the hole—I would say the crater—in which the TAP was linked to the maintenance business in Brazil. And the workers were not the culprits, no, sir, the workers warned in good time about the problem that was being created with that business in which the TAP was placed. But this government has been warned! at the beginning of the mandate, this government was informed about the situation that was created and let the problems worsen, in order to try to create the inevitability of privatization and the dismantling of the company. Create problems to force inevitability! The government has been notified and is complicit and responsible for the situation in which the TAP is located! We say, very clearly, that there are measures that need to be taken to defend TAP as a flag airline, as a company that is all of us and that it is defended, modernized and designed for a better future. in this same way we will deal with the debate in plenary, scheduled for 22, of our draft resolution that points to concrete measures to develop and defend the company. With regard to restructuring, which is poorly designated in this way, with which workers and the population try to point out and threaten, by breaking it to pieces from an airline such as TAP, what needs to be said is that this restructuring today, according to the official information available, is not on the table. And there is a need for clarity in the debate, regarding the statements made by the politicians, the rulers of this country, about the threat they are trying to pose to the workers. It is that what we have before is a pseudo-restructuring that is being demanded by the private, so that it is the government doing what the privates do not want, because they want to find a TAP with a working force with their rights under attack, reduced wages and even more degraded working conditions. That is not why this country will have a solution and a path, that is not where the TAP will be developed and much less defended and, in this context, we will certainly have much to fight and work...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u69	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u70	... by an alternative to the company and the business sector of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u71	To put questions, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u72	Mr. President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Bruno Dias of the Portuguese Communist Party, brought a good theme for this plenary. In fact, the Government has cast chaos in the transport sector, because it is driven by a great prejudice — prejudice against public management and against the presence of the State in the economy — and at the same time is an obsessive government, which everything wants to privatize and everything wants to sub-concession. And do so in a very untransparent way: everything is secret and seeks that the Members and the opposition parties do not have access to much of the documentation. And when it is not secretive, documents and notebooks of charges, as in the case of the port process and we are watching in the transports of Lisbon, are made in the same way, with 2000 / 3000 requests for clarification, extensions of time and with apparent and non-real guarantees. Therefore, we have a government at war with the authorities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, with the Chamber of Lisbon, with the workers and even with Paulo Portas, the leader of the CDS. It is a brand image that the Prime Minister likes to build for you! for our part, we have appealed, although with less and less hope, to which the Prime Minister has an appearance of humility and a certain dose of common sense, which suspends these privatization processes and recognizes that it was important for the country to dialogue with the different parties, particularly with the Socialist Party. We have already said that we like to have access to everything we have not had: technical studies, comparative studies, financial assessments, TAP operating audits — and could continue to give many examples. We, I repeat, defend the immediate suspension of the privatisation process of EMEF and CP Load and consider that TAP is a viable and sustainable company and that the Prime Minister should stop this process. We consider it illegitimate to consolidate definitive legal effects in a future government that conditions that future government. We will do everything — and I am saying this calmly and calmly — to prevent this government from depriving more than 50 % of the capital of TAP in an illegitimate political and illegitimate manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u73	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u74	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that also in the field of transport of Lisbon — Caris and Metro — because we have a concrete proposal from the City Council of Lisbon and because the Government is usurping the rights of the municipality, a future Government of the Socialist Party will cancel these tender procedures for the sub-concessions of the Carris and the Metro. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u75	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u76	Madam President, thanking Mr. Rui Paulo Figueiredo's words to us, I would like to point out that no questions have been asked about EMEF or CP Cargo, but the subject is strategic, the subject is no less important and we are facing disastrous PPPs, where the country is dependent on the railway maintenance of those who, in multinationals, want to sell new ones. It is a very strong warning that we want here to leave about the future of the railway sector that Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo did not mention, but that we want to underline here. The reference that Mr. Rui Paulo Figueiredo, of the PS, made to the understanding that the PSD and the CDS did not want to have with the PS about these privatisations is a pity that will remain with us because we are not sorry that they have not understood you to privatize, that your divergences are in the method rather than in the substance. Our disagreement is substantial, our disagreement is, in fact, that we want to combat the privatization of these companies, we do not want the discussion to be a supposed choice between privatizing at any time or at any moment, as was done with ANA or CTT, or in the other way that you defend, that it is going to privatize the little ones, as they did with PT or EDP, with the results they know.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u77	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u78	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a fundamental disagreement there: we agree not only with this process but with this objective. The privatization of TAP and the railway sector is a ruinous measure, it is a disastrous policy for the country and that is why we have to fight it. When the Mrs. Members take into account the experience of other reference companies, which are strategic for the country, and which at that time had a commitment from governments, including PS governments, PSD and CDS, that would only privatize 35%, or only 10%, or only 15%, and then happen situations such as what happened in PT... We can't help but learn from what is happening in our country, we can't stop learning from our experience!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u80	That is why, Madam President, there is a very clear statement here that, once and for all, another policy is needed to defend, not to dismantle, the business sector of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u81	The political declaration by the CFP was concluded here this afternoon. We have moved on to the political declaration of the Left Block, which today will be given by Mrs Mariana Mortagua, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TAP, EMEF, CP Cargo, Carris, STCP, CP suburban transport, Metro Lisbon and Oceanário. The list of companies and entities that the Government wants to deliver to private parties, weeks before the end of its term of office, is endless. The first question is known: what is the hurry? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the hurry for all these privatisations? Every day, the Government prepares to dispatch the largest exporting company in the country, the collective transports that guarantee more than one million trips a day, one of the symbols of the city of Lisbon, the largest freight transport company and the installed capacity to repair trains. So the second question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for what? Most companies, or have had profits in recent years, as is the case with TAP, or have positive operational results, as is the case with transport companies. In both cases, the problem of these companies is the debt accumulated for years of de-investment, and this debt will continue to be paid by the State, i.e. by taxpayers. The government says privatization improves competitiveness and provides better service, but we all saw what happened to the prices charged by Galp or by EDP: they increased, and much. Privatization guarantees the robustness and innovation capacity of companies, they tell us. But we still remember an PT on a global scale, when it had the state in its capital, and we see the miniature that has arrived today in the hands of who knows who. We have to sell to the private, because these companies are damaging. But then we opened a newspaper, looked at the EUR 676 million of EDP dividends or 70 million of CTTs. In other words, with the sale of part of the electricity company and mail, we lost, only this year and only with these two companies, EUR 210 million in the State budget, practically the amount needed to recapitalise the TAP, which now says it has to be private. In this regard, I would like to share with you the cover of a newspaper, and I will read: TAP on the verge of technical failure. It looks like a newspaper today, but the news, above this, has a news from the 2002 World Cup! This 2002 News Diario cover shows how blackmail is old and how for years they have used the failure of TAP to justify their privatization. Despite this, TAP has survived and has never taken 1 cent of the contributors to their recapitalization. It's the privatizations, sirs. Members, they are not just a bad business for public safes; they are not only detrimental to the quality of services; they mean not only higher bills for citizens when they fill the deposit of their car or when they pay the purchase of electricity; they do not mean only less quality, more prices. They in fact condition national decision-making capacity in vital sectors for the economy and therefore involve and move with our sovereignty. We've all seen where the speech took us, used for decades by PSD and PS, about the importance of the maintenance of strategic companies in national hands. Today, there is no Portuguese company with a qualified participation in mails, airports or PT Portugal. Also in EDP or REN or even in private banking all these companies are controlled by foreign funds belonging to third countries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, have you thought about what it means for the sovereignty of a country to have control over the production, distribution and supply of energy in the hands of another State?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u84	It is not just a company, we have our energy in the hands of another state. What does this imply for the sovereignty of a country, for the future decisions of the Portuguese economy and society? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, weeks after leaving the scene, PSD and CDS, which so much gala have done against PPPs, now bring them in through the « door of funds ». [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] This is the model chosen by the government for the grant of collective transport, ensuring a income by availability, in fact, as happens in road PPPs. The debt accumulated by transport companies, which is the real problem, remains in the public perimeter. Everything is done and thought to the extent that individuals who, whether or not they are passengers, have or not quality, will always have the profits guaranteed either by tickets or by our taxes. The Government is at the point of separating the operation from the electrics and elevators to ensure that the most profitable operations, those intended for tourism, are in fact delivered to private persons and are out of any attempt or demand for public service. The contract book of charges of transport undertakings is a treaty which should not be made in order to safeguard the interests of public safes. The risks of the operation are always for the State, whether private, by ticketing or by the rate of contractual profitability, always win. It's like going to Casino and bet on the red house, a roulette that doesn't have black houses. in this addicted game, the house always loses and whoever pays the bills are the taxpayers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no single reason for frenzym size by the PSD government and CDS. A government on its way to the end of its mandate is trying to reverse the bird country to deliver everything that counts to anyone to bring it. And this has a name, ladies and gentlemen. Members: burnt land policy. The country is smaller, poorer, with less decision-making capacity and thus less democratic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u86	Above all Portugal, says the latest PSD poster, spread by everything that is city in this country. Mrs. Members, it would be fairer or, at least, more honest to change your slogan to Sell everything, even Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u87	The Bureau took note of the question put by the honourable Members. Members Hélder Amaral, Afonso Oliveira, João Paulo Correia and Bruno Dias. I ask the honourable Member how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u88	I will answer one by one, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u89	All right, Mrs. Deputy. I'm still asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the time of the regime. by the CDS-PP, for questions, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u90	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, asked what the rush is. I answer by saying that I was surprised, not very much, I confess, that I have not said anything about a certain radical unionism that has to do with the union of pilots...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u91	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u92	...not all, because I don't confuse pilots with their union, who have no legitimacy to discuss whether or not there should be privatization, because this discussion is of the government and opposition parties. Privatization was planned in the Memoranda, in the PECs and in 1998 if it had not gone wrong, the Socialist Party had already privatized the Company.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u94	So there is a broad consensus here in the parties that normally share the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u95	But I wanted to say more, Mrs. Member: where is your consistency? I haven't seen her with a pin saying: "Don't privatize the port of Pireu! », since she was the largest defender of Syriza. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u96	There, in Greece, will you privatize the port? Or aren't you going to privatize him? Or shouldn't you privatize anything there? Oh, my God! Sometimes it is appropriate to see whether the speech corresponds to practice. By the way, I mean that I have nothing against the Greek people, but I am much more pleased to see when our economy grows 1, 4 % and unfortunately the same does not happen in the economy of Greece! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u97	But as for the question: what is the hurry? , I answer, Mrs Deputy : EUR 500 million of negative own capital; EUR 1000 million of liabilities. [[BE's protests.]] The problems that Mr Bruno Dias was talking about in the summer are growth crisis, are lost opportunities. I want a TAP flying higher and higher. I want a TAP to use more people. I want an increasingly strategic position TAP in the world. I want a TAP that takes the flag of the country ever further and higher. [[PCP and BE protests.]] What do you want, after all? Do you just want to do a set of dissertations about strategic interest and then not tell how to pay or how to do it? You may say: "Well, but the government has an obligation to inject capital into the company. » I, in order not to run the risk of being very demagogic, would like to ask the following: do you know what happened in 1994? The Government made an intervention in the TAP under the laws of the European Union. I remember that the leader of the Portuguese Communist Party spoke only about the possibility of making an intervention, did not talk about the consequences. To see if we can still get some clarification in the debate, say what the consequences are. How many workers have to be fired? What should be restructured in the company?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u98	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u99	This is to see if we understand which of the solutions is really the ideal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u100	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Hélder Amaral, changes the argument...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u102	Why? Don't you think? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u103	... because today we are talking about privatizations, not only of the TAP, but of all the privatizations that are at stake today in the Portuguese economy and society and the only thing you know to tell us is: "And the strike of the TAP pilots? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u104	It's more than that. It is also on the port of Pireu!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u105	Mr President, it is not worth repeating an argument that we have already clarified many times. We do not support a strike that does not serve to defend the TAP against privatization and therefore Mr Deputies wants to use the strike to divert the discussion from where it should be focused and, more, to use the bad experiences of the past to excuse the bad decision that is being made in the present, which is the privatisation of the TAP. When TAP bought Portugal, doing a bad business, no one heard the CDS criticizing the bad ways of TAP management and how that would have consequences in the future. When the TAP bought the VEM, a maintenance unit in Brazil, with high losses, no one heard the CDS criticize and say that problems would be that it would have for the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u106	Heard, he heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u107	Furthermore, the CDS, which repeals the right to defend the country and sovereignty, does not say a word about what it means for the sovereignty of the country to have all strategic companies in the hands of States or foreign companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u108	And about the port of Piraeus? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u109	What does the CDS think about that? That's what I'd like to know! Where is it that for the defence of the national economy, the defence of the national strategic interest, the defense of the country, the CDS so arrogant, when all national companies are in foreign hands? I'd like to have a word about that from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u110	And the question about the port of Piraeus? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u111	Mr President, on the port of Pireu and on Syriza, I would like to say very quickly that I am part of a party that respects the democratic decisions of other parties, other governments and other States,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u112	... unlike the honourable Member who is part of a party and a government that prefers subservience to Germany and the lack of respect for the other States. So once again, don't get so many arguments to run away. Tell us what matters, which is the importance of having TAP as a flag company, the importance of having TAP as a sustainable company and stop making excuses for what you are not sorry about. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u113	Mr Afonso Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u114	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the question you are asking is very interesting and worth taking up the question: what is the hurry? I reply quickly, and in a hurry, to the question you ask: the rush is to return sustainability to companies;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u116	... the rush is to return competitiveness to companies; the rush is to return more capital to companies! You know — and you have to say here that you know this, unless you want to recognise it — that it is not possible to keep companies without sufficient capital, nor is it possible for the State to give money to public enterprises. So my first question is this: how is it to finance public enterprises, if there is not this privatisation process? The second question has to do with its prejudice or, if you want, with the ideological concept—which makes all the sense, I admit perfectly—that the Left Block defends that there is no privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u117	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u118	What I no longer accept is that it does not explain how it solves the business problem. We believe in a society in which the private initiative has strength, has an active role in the economy. That's a fact. For us, the issue of company management is fundamental and the important thing is to provide companies with a good management capacity, good capital and regulatory capacity. These are the fundamental factors that clearly distinguish us from the Left Block. If you will allow me, Mrs. Member, let me speak again about the TAP. Since you spoke at TAP so strongly—and you don't want us to talk about it— let's talk about it again. As you know, there is a balance sheet to be made on the TAP issue and on the TAP pilot strike. And since he spoke in the TAP pilot strike, he would also like to know your position on the disagreement between the other TAP workers in relation to this strike. The question is this: how did the strike of the TAP pilots benefit the public interest of Portugal, defended the national interest, defended the interest of the people and workers of TAP, benefited the passengers?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u119	But you still have questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u120	This is very important, because we need to understand the position of the Left Block in relation to the TAP and what kind of workers it is to defend, if they are the pilots, if the other workers. Clearly say here today what is the position of the Left Block in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u121	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u122	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, for the last time the Left Block does not support a strike of pilots that is not against the privatisation of TAP. I can say again and more slowly: the Left Block does not support a strike that is not against the privatisation of TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u123	They knew!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u124	Why? Because, unlike the ladies. Members of the majority, we do not use the strike as a reason to divert attention from what is essential. And what is essential is the fact that the Government, supported by the majority, wants to privatize in a hurry at the end of its term of office—give whatever happens to whoever appears—the best Portuguese exporting company. This is the essence of the discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u125	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u126	As much as the gentlemen. Members try to find crafts, manipulations, juggling to divert attention, the focus of the debate is this. We cannot be accusing companies today and setting up all the arguments about public companies and forgetting the past. PS and PSD — and the PSD also has a lot of responsibility — have spent decades mismanagement of public companies, “to place debt under the carpet” of public companies and to force them to... [[PSD protests.]] Don't point your finger, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's ugly! It's been decades to send these public companies to get money from the bank. Today, public companies are indebted, they have to pay interest and now use this excuse to say: "No, no, they have to be privatized, because they do not have conditions of sustainability." Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you make new excuses, because in 2002 that was the excuse. in the 2002 Newspaper, it was said that the TAP had to be privatized because it was on the brink of bankruptcy. It's a company that's been on the brink of bankruptcy for 10 years! However, it grew, multiplied routes, had positive operational results, but has been on the brink of bankruptcy for 10 years! By the way, find an argument, one that serves. This is because in the TAP they tell us: « It is because of the European Commission. The European Commission does not leave. But did the government ask the European Commission if it could?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u127	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u128	You didn't! You didn't try! And so do not use the European Commission as an excuse. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And then they say: « There are no conditions of sustainability, because the company has damage. » What about CTTs? What damage did they have to have privatized them?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u129	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no excuse! For each case, they find an excuse to your extent to justify your ideological plan, which is to sell the companies to whom they appear. Therefore, there is nothing that diverts the government's plan, to weeks of elections, which is to sell what remains of Portugal. An irresponsible, repeatable, irresponsible policy for the future! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u131	by the PS, to put questions, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u132	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, is known for the opposition and disagreement of the Socialist Party in the way the Government has imposed an ideological agenda against public management in the transport sector. Moreover, the Government and the parties of the majority do not assume, but they are against public management in the state business sector in the field of transport. For three and a half years, this government dismantled many of the transport companies so that they would become more attractive for privatizations and private sub-concessions. And in the last half of the year, he launched a set of sub-concessions to privates and a set of privatizations in a hurry. It is worth recalling in this debate the mess that this Government has played with in the transport sector. We recall the sub-concession of the Port Metro and STCP, a process launched against the autarchs, against the workers and that will weaken the offer. at this time, the contract that was signed with the sole competitor, the winner of this competition, increases the number of kilometres contracted to 12 million during the time of the award, and decreases the supervision and security contract by 70 %. In other words, it is a more beneficial contract than the conditions given in the Orders Book, which, in our view, violates the basic principle of competition. We leave here this complaint which has been transmitted to us by the workers of this company. We also recall the trick of the contest of the Carris and the Metro de Lisboa. The Socialist Party warned Mr. Minister of Economy and Mr. Secretary of State for Transport to allow this competition to go beyond the deadline of this Parliament. We have recently learned that, after all, the competition will go up, because the company does not have the capacity to answer the more than 2000 questions that have been asked. It would therefore be more sensible for the Government to cancel or suspend this invitation to tender. We also look at the privatisation processes of CP Load and EMEF. The government announced that these two companies will make profits in 2014. For here is a great reason not to move forward quickly for these privatisations. Why not wait? What's the hurry? Why is the government running behind time to give everything to privates and privatize all the transport sector that is in the hands of the State?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u133	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u134	Question: Does the Left Block follow the position of the Socialist Party, which defends the annulment and suspension of these sub-concession and privatization processes? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u135	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not in a bad way about preciousism, but I think that in this case the PS has come to half-term to follow the positions of the Left Block, because the Left Block has always opposed any concession or privatisation of public transport companies. The PS has not had such a position in the past and now has a position in the middle, saying: "Well, privatization! in this way not, perhaps in the future yes! ... ». It is typical and is more or less that position « on top of the rope », « on top of the elastic» that the PS will keep. But I want to tell you, Mr President, that I follow all the criticisms of the privatisation process, of the troubled, confused, unclear processes that are being made by the government at the last hour. We see this in the transports—STCP, Metro Lisbon, Carris, even on the suburban lines of CP, EMEF and CP Cargo. The problem is that PS is only against privatization when it's in opposition...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u137	This one must have made you very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u138	...and that gives us no security, as you must understand. It is against the privatisation process when the PSD and CDS are government, but when the PS itself reaches the government, privatizes. So it's a little bit of privatization, yes, but that's not... this is the process. The PS today calls for the cancellation of the privatisations for what? To privatize then? To be the P.S. way?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u139	That's a good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u140	And with regard to the proposal they put forward for the TAP, I would like you to give me an example, I repeat, an example of a company that has been traded a part of its capital, or that has been privatized a part of its capital — most of them have started by being privatized by the PS — and that then has not ended up being sold in its entirety! Give me an example of a company that has started privatisation with guarantees that only 10 % would be capitalised by private funds and spent five or ten years is not 100 % private. Which of these companies is not 100% private today? So, Mr President, as much as you agree with some of the criticisms you have made, how can we trust the PS's intentions in this regard? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u141	by the PCP, to put questions, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u142	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the CFP has this deep concern, which also addressed in its intervention, on the privatization of companies and strategic sectors that this Government wants to launch at this terminal stage of its mandate. This government is already standing outside the door to leave, but it wants to go out and sign papers to deliver our country's economy to the economic groups. I stress the railway sector at this stage of the debate. We are facing a threat, with the privatizations of EMEF and CP Load, of total dependence of our country of multinationals in truly strategic and decisive areas for our development. They are more ruinous PPPs that are placed on the table, from then on in railway maintenance, but not only. I would like to add what is happening with regard to Transtejo and Soflusa, with the alienation of ships from the fleets of these public transport companies and with particular emphasis on their maintenance. This at a time when, on the part of the majority, the argument that they bring us is that of the quality of service and management to justify the sale of the country to the pieces. We asked: "Well, where was the quality lacking in the EMEF unit for innovation and development, which was delivered to the English? » It's because it was bad, probably! ... Or with regard to the Metropolitan of Lisbon and its technical capacity and quality, which has been attacked with the decisions of this government? Or the technical capacity that we have generally found in the air sector, whether in TAP itself or in ANA Airports, which even made profit and which the Government has privatized, in fact, the proposal that the PS had put in the CFP? We still remember the clock that the CDS ordered to put in decreasing count for the troika's exit. But there was another one, there was another troika, because this troika is still here and continues to invoke the argument of the MOU to justify these decisions. But here we had a historic moment, which may have gone unnoticed by some, which was the critical and condemnatory reference that we heard from the CDS to the restructuring of 1994, which the PSD/Cavaco Silva government took effect and imposed on the company and workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u144	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u145	For what? To prepare the privatization that would have to move forward and not advance. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember what this restructuring really means to you that you now want to return with the talk of technical bankruptcy, that we have already found in the old news, asking whether or not we are in front of a film that we have already seen and that ends badly, of course. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u146	I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u147	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, thank you for the questions you have raised. in general, we agree with the analysis of the Government's privatisation policy. All arguments fall to the ground when you look at the endless list of companies to privatize and you notice that there is no argument that falls to everyone and therefore you will create an argument as per each company to justify their privatisation. in the case of TAP, it is technical bankruptcy, that is the argument today, but he is so old, so old that it was already the argument 10 years ago, and this shows a little, even, the lack of originality on the part of the various governments that will want to privatize, that they are not even able to invent new lies. They still cling to old lies to sell these companies and it's good to note that they're all, they're all! We are going to have very few companies with industrial capacity or the transport sector in the hands of the state and this has very serious consequences for sovereignty, for example, as we have already said, of energy control, because those who control Portuguese energy are the Chinese State. But it also has consequences at the level of our industrial capacity, because when you deliver the maintenance of the Lisbon metro, for example, and you make a contract with a private company, what you are saying is that you withdraw from the state, from a national company, the ability to maintain the material of transport companies. And forever knowledge and this service is dependent on foreign multinationals. We are thus depriving our country of a service and a potential for basic industrial development, which will be very necessary in the future. A final note, Mr Deputy, concerning the struggle of workers. Even today EMEF workers have gone out on the streets in the Entrance, in defense of their company, and we have witnessed, throughout the country, the struggles of workers who want to defend their companies, who are not struggling for a percentage of privatization, are fighting because over the past decade, what happened to their companies, have seen how the disinvestment led to increased indebtedness, they have seen how the disinvestment led to security problems, they have seen the way that the disinvestment has led to problems of quality of service. And we also see today how the government uses this disinvestment and these quality problems in the service, because there was disinvestment, as a blackmail against the workers, saying that the fault of all that happens in the transport sector is strikes, it is workers. It is a policy of social blackmail, of social conflict, which wants to put workers against workers, citizens against citizens. It's a policy of provocation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u148	Provoking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u149	... and that we must deconstruct and to which we must resist, because it is a policy that workers play against each other so that no one can see that the enemy is actually in privatization and that no one will notice that it is necessary to stop the sale of these companies. This is where we should concentrate, preventing the sale of these transport companies to private multinationals, because, yes, it will be against all the workers, all the taxpayers and all the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u150	This concludes the political statement by the Left Block this afternoon. looks like the PSD wants to make an inquiry to the Bureau. Please, Mr Hugo Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u151	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau to distribute a document, but without fail saying the following: during this debate, in this political statement and in the previous one, there were several of them. Members who have referred to governance as it is ending, even saying that it is only a few weeks away for the government to cease its duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u152	It's a finite prayer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u153	We know, Madam President, that there will be, at least, a considerable lack of six months for this legislation to end...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u154	Comparing the three and a half years that have passed...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u155	Are the elections in November? Oh, my God! I didn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u156	... and I would like to ask the President to distribute Article 186. the failure of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, where the start and end of the functions of the Government is foreseen, to make it very clear to the opposition that this Government and this majority will not fail to fulfil their mandate until the last day, in the full exercise of their duties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u157	Is that a threat? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u158	You are clear, Mr Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u159	First distribute the passage of the Bible on the vendettalons of the Temple!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u160	And what would the opposition say, Madam President, if this government ceased to govern and this majority ceased to legislate? We will not exempt ourselves from fulfilling our mandate until the end...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u161	You are clear, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u162	...and it's not because you want the government not to fulfill its promises that it will stop ruling. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u163	The Bible’s passage on the vendettalons of the Temple was more appropriate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u164	Do not quote the name of the Lord in vain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u165	Let us turn to the PSD political statement this afternoon, today by Mrs Nilza de Sena, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The circumstance of being at the end of the legislature provides a balance sheet. Four years back, three of which were troubled and suffered in the execution of a difficult adjustment programme, for which we did not contribute but that we fulfilled with responsibility, we are proud of having succeeded in freeing Portugal from this part of the Memorandum. But for that reason, we live at a time when the ransom of truth becomes more than a responsibility before the country. There are those who think, precisely, that the "great lie" is the reduction not of facts but of facts, not of ethics and legitimate persuasion, but of voluntary distortion of reality, not by rationality, but by populist and instrumental emotion of voting hunting. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u167	The truth is that the current government has found not what the Socialist Party guarantees, but rather a broken country, whose future could only be of sacrifice and austerity. It is good not to forget recent history. The management of the Socialist Party proceeded as if the resources were unlimited, the revenue did not entail costs and the expenditure was a discretionary imperative of the assertion of the government authority. We did not only find a impoverished country, a impoverished state, a large and heavy administration, a country of unjustified privileges. We found a Returned Country, even returned, without resources in the present and in the immediate future. Empty safes — they are angry today because we have them full —; accumulated debts; holes and liabilities everywhere; international mistrust; denied access to markets. Now, we have consolidated economies and finances and the country, as already confirmed today, is growing. Where's the recessive spiral that you guys are? Members of the opposition were begging and seemed to want? I repeat, today the country grows, grows steadily and exceeds expectations. And for that to happen, we didn't need a fabulous government, fantasy or plastic. We are helping ourselves with little crafts and we are not looking for empty fabulations — neither before, nor for, nor now, nor after.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u168	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u169	They didn't help each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u170	The word gained spontaneity and so sometimes there were imperfections in the message. The communication was often hard, but it only punished to the extent of realism and never needed intermediaries: it was always a courageous Prime Minister who gave the bad news and who spoke eyes to the Portuguese. The PSD therefore presents itself to the country with a very defined project, without ambiguities and once again demarcates itself from the Socialist Party. Anyone reading the document A Decade for Portugal, accompanied by the proposals to the PS leader's scoreboard, encounters models experienced in the past, whose results are known, or experimentalists, of unpredictable consequences. These measures, more than being the recipe for the crisis, unemployment, public spending and the bono of a country that sings, are proof of the unwillingness of the socialists to rule the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all there. Otherwise, let's see: how does the country grow? They announce that they will reduce taxes, but they do not say how they compensate them. It's socialist illusion. How is the economy stimulated? the demand, resumed the path of public spending and internal consumption to wheels. It's the deja vu from bankruptcy. They do not speak about social security reform but propose to lower the single social rate for employers and workers. It is the so-called immediate useful effect on the distribution of income, to which the rumbe will be followed in pensions. How do families get tax relief? Reducing the IRS, moving in the progressiveity of the steps, but without explaining macroeconomic implications. Who are they going to go up to the IRS so they can go down to others? To whom? How much? How so? Strange, at least it's strange! They also return the IRS overtax in two years, but they don't say how they replace this loss of revenue. It's the miracle of multiplying offers. How is contemporary socialism promoted? By promoting the liberalism of the single contract and eliminating future contracts, triggering unemployment. It is the so-called social commitment of the Socialist Party. But more: they increase the IMI over the second housing, return 35 hours of work, reset the holidays, replace the right income by uncertain and unexplained revenue. And when someone questions his or her mirific vision of reality, they live in bad company with criticism, with journalistic freedom and with the healthy public scrutiny of their intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u172	It is the policy of replacement, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the replacement of the country of 2011! [[PSD applause.]] As if all this was not enough, with this deceptive but charming recipe that in six years has failed us and sadly punished us, they speak of measures for the decade, for a decade! But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese don't want more promises from the Socialist Party, which gives them full pockets, returns them the best of the worlds, but restores the path of the stones, a bitter path. A serious Socialist Party, which has committed itself to the budgetary pact, cannot break the path of consolidation of public accounts and the growth model confirmed by the OECD and also today by the National Institute of Statistics. A Socialist Party that does not understand the need for understanding in structural and urgent areas, such as social security, which retreated into the agreement to decrease the IRC, which was inspired by the failed and equally distorted proposals of Holland and Renzi and which celebrated, with many palms, the victory of Syriza, is not a credible and reliable party. All PS has done is sell past. It is true that this past has been made up, it is true that it has been well wrapped, of lazarate and new clothing, but it is all there: heavy, experienced, spent and spent, presenting itself for the decade but with proposals from the previous decade. The Portuguese don't want and don't deserve a Greek tragedy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough, therefore, to say good intentions or to make reasonable promises. Our Government has achieved an inalienable goal and has accomplished a historic mission: it has returned national sovereignty to Portugal in the scheduled time, guaranteed the protection of the most disadvantaged, created the conditions of growth, which are evident, and has a solid project that it wants to fulfil, without the parting imposed by the socialists. There is therefore a great transformer challenge in the approaching cycle. And it is designed with given evidence, clear results and a Prime Minister who always puts the country first. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u173	The Bureau recorded two inscriptions by the Members. Deputies João Galamba, of the PS, and Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS-PP, to request clarifications. Mrs Nilza de Sena will together respond to requests for clarification. Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u174	Madam President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Nilza de Sena. The honourable Member said here that it was important to rescue the truth. And I will try to rescue the truth — something that is difficult — from your own intervention. Let's start with a contradiction from the honourable Member. The honourable Member has succeeded in saying that the Socialist Party's proposals were both experimental, new and repeated, keeping all the bets of the past. Mrs Deputy, you understand: either one or another; the two, at the same time, are that it is a little difficult. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member also said that, as liberators of the working class, they arrived in Portugal and delivered Portugal from unjustified privileges. I would like to ask you a very specific question: do you consider the PSD that has released pensioners who have received the solidarity supplement for the elderly (CSI) of their unjustified privileges, or not? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a very important answer, Mrs Democrat, since the Social Democratic Party has made a lot of propaganda about minimum pensions, but the poverty of the elderly has dropped only because you financed the increase of minimum pensions with a cut in the solidarity complement for the elderly, which, yes, is the benefit for the poorest pensioners. Therefore, Mrs. Member, I would be grateful if you could explain to us whether the privileges he was talking about were these, and the unemployed, and whom he emigrated, and from whom he received the sickness allowance, finally, of all those people who, by sight, had unjustified privileges for the PSD. On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, I would also like to clarify something else. The honourable Member said here that we exceeded growth expectations. Today, the data from the economy have emerged and what the honourable Member has said here is objective, categorical and totally false, because no expectations have been exceeded, Mrs. The opposite happened. Today's known GDP data... [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] Mr. Parliamentary leader, you have so much time to talk! Wait for your time, you will certainly have other times to make speeches. Now, let your Member speak, don't worry! As you said, Mrs Deputy, today the data from the economy came out and these, contrary to what the honourable Member said, remained in the lowest value of all. Now, I'd like to ask you a question. The honourable Member has come here to talk about the credibility of the macro framework of the economists of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u175	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u176	But there is one thing we know: the macro framework of the PS economists was well received by all the social partners and various former leaders of their party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Interestingly, the GDP values that came out today have a little particularity: there were some economists chosen by their party to develop a macro framework for PSD and what we know today is that there were two entities that were badly deceived in the forecasts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u177	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u178	In fact, they expected GDP to be 2, 2 and 1, 4 %. Yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister said that he had strong indications that GDP could exceed expectations. He didn't get over it. Therefore, I ask the honourable Member whether, after the 29 questions to the Socialist Party, the group of economists of the PSD does not even read, whether or not these two economists, who have been very mistaken in the forecasts of GDP, are a bad warning and a bad starting point for the macro framework of the Social Democratic Party, which nobody knows but we know they are drawing up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u179	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u180	Mrs President, Mrs Nilza de Sena, the honourable Member raises several doubts here, all of them, in my view, relevant, about what was presented by the PS, which is not a programme but a scenario from which a programme will be born. And there are some doubts that, in my opinion, make sense. It is true that the PS proposals — let us put it quite frankly — have the merit of being proposed and having a technical work behind them, but I cannot help but confess that the scenario and everything that involves it sometimes seems a very sophisticated and economic way of adopting an old truth, translated into the motto: "Do you want to win elections? Spend now and think about the consequences later! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u181	In fact, the macroeconomic scenario of PS presents some disturbing similarities with this philosophy. And it is not by chance that the PS itself, who had initially said that it would be very pleased to submit to an independent entity its macroeconomic scenario, as soon as that opportunity arose, as soon as he had the opportunity to submit to an independent entity, said: « No, now no, because it questions... ». [[PS protests.]] I understand you! I understand you very well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Protests by PS Members Sonia Fertuzinhos and Hortense Martins.]] But here are some things that are to be explained. It remains to be explained, for example, how the star measures of the PS, which are basically those relating to the TSU, either on the employer's side or on the worker's side, will be financed. It's just what they say...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u182	This is all explained in the report! You don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u183	Mr. João Galamba, I know I don't have your fantastic ability to perceive, but, despite everything, I will have some. And I see so many people who haven't noticed that I dare say that, perhaps, the problem is yours, that you didn't explain well. Maybe that's it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But look that the arguments of authority are always characteristic of those who have little reason. I have a lot of respect for technical capacity, I have a lot of respect for economic scenarios, but I will tell you one thing: sometimes good sense is worth more than 50 economic scenarios, and that is what seems to be missing. Mr President, if the next year's pensions are to be paid with next year's revenue, and if you take hundreds of thousands of euros from the revenue, you have to explain how you are to pay the pensions — and that is what is not explained. Secondly, I would also like to talk about the additions to the macroeconomic scenario. And the scenario is permanently out of date. It is that when a party also adopts a second motto, which is ‘every week, every promise’ — and I imagine that, as the elections approach, we will move on to the ‘every day, every promise’ — we forget to update the scenario. Mr President, since the scenario has gone out we have had the return to 35 hours of weekly work for public service; the end of the privatisation of the TAP (and, this point, by not saying, because you had put the privatisation of the TAP in the Memorandum ); the end of the family quotient of the IRS, because, by purely ideological prejudice, the PS considers that spending with a child must be equal to spending on works in a house...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u184	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u185	... or after-graduation expenses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u186	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u187	For the purpose of spending, a child cannot be regarded as a person who is part of the family, no, a child is like a home!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u188	It's the same for the rich and the poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u189	It is a purely ideological prejudice, but it has a meaning, it has a meaning for families with children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u190	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u191	Madam President, I'm done. We will certainly have the opportunity to continue this debate. Thank you very much for your tolerance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u192	In reply, Mrs Nilza de Seine has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u193	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Members João Galamba and Cecilia Meireles. Mr. João Galamba, one day, will be made the history of his latest interventions in this Chamber...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u194	Is there going to be a story? Oh, my God! There won't be any of yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u195	... and you will realize that, in fact, you are the most flawed Member in the forecasts. Three months ago, he said this budget was unrealistic. Moreover, Mr President, we will not forget ourselves, nor will we put other interventions into the drawer. Mr. Deputies said we'd live a recessive spiral,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u196	We were living!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u197	...he asked for more time and more money, defended a second rescue, a cautious program. Mr President, there are so many that I could, throughout my speech, answer exactly with your words. But, Mr President, I am going to read slowly what is in a chart I have here with me because I think that the honourable Member sometimes gets in the way of interpreting the data.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u198	So say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u199	Here is a chart, where you can read: 'GDP's growth more than it doubled in the first quarter' — more than it doubled, Mr President! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u200	Yeah? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u201	It's not an illusion of this bench, it's a proven reality with today's data. [[PSD applause.]] But more, Mr President: we have frozen the pensions that the Socialist Party has frozen. The honourable Member has forgotten this! It was we who increased minimum pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u202	And they cut off the CSI!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u203	... social and rural pensions, which has benefited more than 1 million Portuguese, Mr. Therefore, you are forgotten, you are rewriting the story according to your own convenience. But, Mr, I want to tell you one more thing: this government does not respond with slogans,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u204	Don't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u205	... nor does he work with sound bits. This government is working with results! It's results we're talking about here! And these are the results that we have brought to this House today, because the data are very clear: growth exists, we meet all the goals, we always put the country first, solving the problems that the Socialist Party has left us. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I share most of your views. And I sincerely say that I cannot understand how the Socialist Party may have made a set of proposals in which it does a feat, also highlighted here by Mr. João Galamba. There are, in fact, two aspects: the aspect of the proposals we already know and which have a revenue that leads to dramatic results; and the aspect of the other proposals, which are experimentalists and which, by this measure, are not quantified either, nor is the Socialist Party willing to quantify. And it is exactly this availability that we call upon the Socialist Party today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u206	Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u207	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Conclusions supported by the 2015 report on ageing, including demographic, economic and financial projections for the period 2013 - 2060, were adopted yesterday at the ECOFIN meeting. For Portugal and Europe, this is a very important report on the future of our societies. The basic scenario presents for Portugal forecasts that could hardly be considered with another qualification but that of « dramatic ». In fact, these projections confirm the already known data on demographic developments of enormous seriousness. In relative terms, within the European Union, Portugal stands out for the worst reasons: in a few years we will be the least-weighted country of children in the resident population(11, 5 % of children up to 14 years old ) ; we will be the second-largest relative country of the Union of people over 65 years old(34, 6 %) ; we will be the largest country of the very elderly, over 80 years old(16, 1 % of the population ). If nothing changes, we will experience a heavy retreat from our global population and our active age population: in 20 years we will lose 700 000 inhabitants and, at the end of the projection, we will be 8, 2 million people living in Portugal. In 2060, we will have one of the lowest population rates in active age and it will fall more than 10 points in the next decades. This alarming situation becomes more severe if we consider that the European Union estimates predict a potential growth of economic activity always below the Union average. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This framework, of which I have only presented some of its most expressive elements, is not the result of any historical determinism. in the similar fiscal year 2009, the total population estimate for the end of the period was in the 11, 3 million inhabitants, compared with the 8, 2 of this projection. It results from the economic crisis that has marked our collective life for too long. in recent years, demographic prospects have deteriorated in a brutal way. The fall in birth and inversion of migration flows are the cause of this change and both are the result of a profound recession and disastrous economic expectations: the high risk of youth unemployment to persistent wage breakdown. The depth of the recession we live in and the fragility of future expectations is at the root of much of the problems that are associated with a scenario that challenges us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the demographic outlook and the risk of aging in our society have been presented by a number of analysts and the political forces on the right, such as the inevitable cause of the unsustainability of our social systems and, in particular, the pension system. The results of this exercise are clear: the pressure on the public expenditure of pension systems is reduced, especially if we compare it to what happened not many years ago. Even in this marked ageing framework, what the European Union's projections show is almost stable the weight of spending on pensions in GDP. 10 years ago, the projections of this same year indicated a growth in the weight of pensions in GDP of 9, 7 percentage points, reaching 2050, 20, 8 % of GDP. Today this projection for 2060 is 13 %. once for all, it seems clear that the sacrosanct truth of the propagandists of various causes has fallen to the ground: it is not the pension system that threatens economic performance, it is the fragility of the economy that weakens the quality of the protection of our elderly. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This does not mean that the future is not demanding at the economic, financial and social level and that no path corrections are necessary, it is not necessary to deepen equity in social protection, it is not necessary to monitor the evolution of life expectancy with richer and longer productive careers, it is not necessary to improve the quality of life of older people, especially in terms of health, and therefore the spending of health is the one that presents greater pressure in terms of the future. But it is not in the reduction of present rights and in the formation of future pensioners' rights that there is any response to demographic and social challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The defence of the quality of life of the elderly, particularly in an ageing society, must be a priority option for our societies. But in order for this priority to be achieved, it is essential for the economy to regain growth capacity and job creation. The demographic scenario that threatens us cannot be inevitable. It must be opposed, mobilising the whole of society to improve conditions of growth and economic modernization. Employment and income levels that degrade demographic conditions must be driven by public policies that combine rigor and ambition. Today, there are nearly two million active-age citizens who are away from full and compensating participation in the labour market. It is the unemployed, the inactive discouraged, the inactive who are permanently excluded from the right to work, who are employees in situations of underemployment, not to mention the thousands of candidates for emigration. Recovering an important share of these resources for wealth creation is our main challenge and the best response to demographic challenges. For the future to be different from the projections it is necessary to qualify people, businesses and institutions. But this qualification is only effective with a growth boost that opens up space for modernisation. the success of this battle depends on our ability to counter projections and a hopeless future. That is the commitment and determination of the Socialist Party. We do not accept that in 2019 unemployment continues to exceed 11 % as foreseen in the Government Stability Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Accepting it would mean giving up a different future than the one that is designed for us. It would mean that the young people who are finishing their studies will continue to view emigration as the most likely destination, it would mean that we resign ourselves to the social fractures that undermine our cohesion and redeploy ourselves to impoverishment and stagnation. There is an alternative to resignation, there is an alternative to impoverishment without return. It is for her that we mobilize the Portuguese, because this is the alternative that the Portuguese are waiting for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u210	To request clarification from Mr Vieira da Silva, the following members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy were registered: Deputies Cecilia Meireles, Pedro Filipe Soares, Rita Rato and Adam Silva. The honourable Member has informed the Bureau that he will answer in sets of two. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u211	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, you raise a number of problems, all of them important, that of the demographic issue, that of unemployment, which is indeed very serious and affects many Portuguese, fortunately, today less than during the recession that our bankruptcy situation has caused, but in any case much more than what we want. The honourable Member refers to the need for us to solve this problem, but he does, in fact, speak of the PS's forecasts. The positive forecasts are good news, but, Mr President, if we had solved the problem of unemployment with forecasts, I think it would have been solved long ago! To solve the problem of unemployment, it takes a little more than forecast. This leads us to the question of economic growth. What I think is that, in doing what the PS wants, in relation to the type of economic growth in which the PS is betting, in the future, in fact, as has happened in the past, there will be exactly the same results:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u212	That's predictions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u213	... there is a moment that is positive, because it is completely inspired by credit or by very expansionist measures of « putting money in people's pockets », but then badly disappears the measures or there is no problem at all in the external environment, we enter into a very strong and deeper recession than in the rest of Europe. This is the question: we want to grow, yes, but sustainably so that growth is becoming more robust from year to year, it is not with pressure measures and that they are poorly removed, lead to growth going down again. It is not by chance that the macroeconomic scenario of PS, when it begins to enter 2018 and 2019, already begins to predict economic growth below its basic scenario. It is precisely because there is a peak that then returns to the bottom.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u214	This scenario comes from the European Commission's basic scenario!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u215	Ms. Cecilia Meireles ( CDS-PP ). — No, I'm talking about the scenario that is made above the European Commission scenario, which is yours. Secondly, I know that you have a great deal of knowledge in these areas. I understand the idea of PS when using TSU as alpha and omega of employment policy, whether TSU on the employee's side, or TSU on the employer's side, but there are two fundamental things that are not explained.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u216	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u217	Ms. Cecilia Meireles ( CDS-PP ). — I shall conclude, Madam President. The first is how it will compensate for the amount of revenue that will be in social security, because, no matter how optimistic the scenario is, it will not create, at least in the first few years, jobs that compensate, neither by close or by far, this rumbe. So how are you going to pay pensions? The only way to compensate this is through what it calls, euphemistically, the condition of recourse in minimum pensions, being, in fact, a cut in minimum pensions what the PS is proposing. Does the honourable Member think that it is appropriate to make this mandatory ceiling, i.e. that even low-income workers are required to discount less and, by 10 to 20 years, they have substantially lower reforms? Is that where the Socialist Party wants to go? I don't think so! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u218	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u219	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, today in our society there is a debate which divides waters, which is the debate on the constraints that have arisen in relation to our economy. There is in this debate a group of people who form a coalition in order to attack work, saying that one of the problems of the economy, and that is what makes us competitive, are the costs of work. From this point of view, the result can always lead to anything similar to the knowledge that we are going to cut in workers' incomes, directly—and here we see that the government has been able to do so - because over the last few years, in the wages of the private sector there has already been a global reduction of more than 10 % and in the public sector even more than that—or indirectly, through taxes paid by each of the workers and, for example, by the TSU, the payment for social security. The first question that I ask is whether, in the debate on the problems of our economy, the PS is on the side of those who think that what takes away competitiveness in the country is the costs of work, and that is why it should be done, or whether it is on the side of those who realize that at present the costs of work are less than one third of the cost of companies and, therefore, charging the workers with responsibility for any competitiveness of the economy is, at least, manifestly exaggerated. Therefore, we should act on the inequalities of the economy, on wages, which are not too high but too low, on the abusive income that currently exist in the economy (and not only in energy, which is unequivocal), on other restrictions, even bureaucratic, that stem from companies and on the difficulties that exist in companies in densifying the knowledge that is given, thus combating precariousness, the idea that a good company is the one that can constantly run workers. Question: Which side is the PS on? Looking at the measures presented by the Socialist Party, beginning with the reduction in the TSU of employers and employees, but also through that form of facilitation of redundancies, which is this new modality that throws on the ground any idea which defends workers that there is no dismissal without cause, after all, the Socialist Party is unequivocally 'throwing' to workers' rights, either to the right to pay or to the right to have stability in employment, or to a vision of the economy that does not put workers as a problem but as a benefit, a surplus.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u220	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u221	I conclude, Madam President, by asking a direct question: after all, the program that the PS has to present is the one that has the finger pointed at the workers, saying that they are responsible for the country, or there is another program, which will then be presented, which will demolish the foundations of what economists have done? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u222	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who respect regiment times. You have the floor to answer, Mr Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, like the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to bring up a debate on an important document which was adopted yesterday in Ecofin, in fact with the presence of the Minister for Finance, on the demographic scenario that tells us of a projection, validated by the European Union, which says that Portugal, from now to 50 years, will have less than 2, 3 million inhabitants than today. If the gentlemen. Members believe that this debate is of no importance at all, let us do so at another time. Like the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen have not asked any questions about the central issue of my speech, I will answer the questions that you put, explaining that I did not make any prediction of the responsibility of the Socialist Party, I only quoted the data of the aging document that was approved yesterday in Ecofin. Responding to Mrs Cecilia Meireles' questions, I would like to ask Mrs Meireles, with all the consideration I have for you, that perhaps she could make a second reading of the economists' document on the macroeconomic scenario. It is just a little while ago — it was not in the questions you asked, but I can't help but mention it — the honourable Member referred to a set of measures which said they would have been presented after the scenario and, in fact, they are all scenarios, such as 35 hours and the family coefficient. They're all there! So the honourable Member is unattended and it is not possible to have a serious debate with someone who is unattended and who does not actually follow what is the individual's proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, in our argument, we can do the crafts we want with forecasts and the realization of these forecasts. But if that is the debate, I am going to play it and I am going to play it with the forecasts of a government that the honourable Member was part of — and which is now continuing to support — presented by Mr ex-Minister of Finance in the document sent to the European Commission on GDP, employment, unemployment, exports, deficit, debt and all of them have repeatedly failed. in the case of employment, 300 000 jobs have failed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What you planned for 2015 in employment was 300 000 jobs above what is being realized, even with this wonder of growth that you say is happening. More: What the government now expects for 2019 is 120 000 jobs below what it planned in 2011 for this year. About predictions we're talking about! Mrs Cecilia Meireles, on the issue of pensions, the proposal to amend the single social rate on the part of workers, which is a transitional proposal, has a cost and an objective. We believe that this is a positive objective, because it is an objective to stimulate economic recovery and with high job creation potential. If you look at the macroeconomic scenario and the budget scenario, you will see that all the measures we propose have an impact on the deficit and, at some times, always meeting the target of 3% of the budget treaty or the goal of the stability pact, the estimates are different from those of the government. Why? Because we have a different balance between the social deficit and the budget deficit. But, as far as this is concerned, nothing can solve that distinction. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has put his questions on another plane and I answer him very clearly. The proposals put forward — very likely a large part of them will be part of the Socialist Party's programme, I have no doubt about it — were oriented towards what is essential, and that is what I have tried to show in my political statement. in the framework in which we live it is essential that there is an impulse for growth that allows some changes that we need to make to have room to live, to breathe. And one of the ways to boost this growth is precisely by reducing the contribution of workers to social security, which is limited and transitional, but on which we believe that in the future it has a positive impact on the formation of rights and the formation of pensions. If you make the accounts, you will find that the future values of pensions have been cut at least by 7 % or 8 % in real values only because of the episodes of recession and unemployment that we have had in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u224	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u225	I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, if we counter these effects, we are more likely to sustain the value of future pensions. On the reduction of the employer's contribution, it is not a reduction of the same type, it is a reduction of the lost revenue in the tax office. And by whom? Precisely for those who can afford it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u226	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u227	I shall conclude, Madam President. I'm sorry. We are not fans of the question of labour costs, but we also know that for many small and medium-sized enterprises it is not indifferent to the fact that on the 15th of each month they can have some relief from their obligations, which is paid, compensated, by large companies. Are you gentlemen against that? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u228	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u229	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, made a political statement addressing issues related to the demographic scenario and, in fact, it can be strictly concluded that the country is faced with a demographic scenario which, as Mr and the CFP have said, is dramatic in the face of the lives of the people. But the CFP also does not hesitate to conclude that the demographic situation is inseparable from decades of impoverishment and aggravating exploitation, reduction and devaluement of work, destruction of important social functions of the State. For this reason, we have also recently had the opportunity to discuss measures within the framework of the birth incentive here and the CFP has presented a set of integrated measures that allow for a comprehensive approach to these matters, in particular with regard to income policy and the valuation of wages, the universality of family allowance, the freeness of school manuals, the full fulfilment of maternity and paternity rights in the workplace, the guarantee of the means of inspection of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) to ensure the fulfilment of these rights and the guarantee of working hours that allow the link between personal, family and professional life. In many of these matters, it is true that the Socialist Party has not accompanied us, particularly with regard to the universality of family allowance, and that is exactly why we would like to hear the opinion of the honourable Member regarding the need to counteract this demographic scenario. It is urgent for the CFP to reverse this demographic trend, but to do so it is necessary to break with the right-wing policy, which requires, in particular with regard to income policy, what we have not heard from its words and proposals presented by the PS, which is the need to value wages, to eradicate precariousness, the universality of family allowance, the generalization and the increase in social support, the repeal of the condition of resources and the fight against immigration, with job creation, with the wage on the productive apparatus. from the PCP, there is no doubt that an alternative is needed and it is necessary to break with this policy, but from the Socialist Party the measures that have been presented do not point to this path, point to the maintenance of wage cuts and the maintenance of a path that does not guarantee rupture with the right policy. Therefore, the CFP would like to know the following: as regards the needs of defence of collective bargaining, the repeal of the most serious standards of the Labour Code, the universality of family allowance, the revocation of the condition of resources, the increase of minimum pensions by 25 €, as we have subsequently proposed here, which side is the Socialist Party? Is he on the side of the alternative or is he on the side of the alternance? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u230	Mr Adam Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u231	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, began by talking about demographic issues and this is a matter of greatest relevance, which concerns the PSD, the Portuguese in general and the Parliament in particular. In fact, we brought up the debate on demographic issues, of course it is necessary to mention the following: these negative dynamics of demographics have already started a few years ago, in 2007, 2008, 2009, when the balance was already negative, i.e. fewer people were born than the people who died. Therefore, there is a previous dynamic, for which the previous governments did not make major contributions either, for example, on the issue of the cut-off of the family allowance. But above all, I would like to focus on the aspect mentioned by the honourable Member, which is that of the PS not resigning in relation to the situation. For, the PS does not resign, the PSD does not resign, and this government does not resign either. We therefore speak of resignation to tell you the following: what happened was that this government began its mandate in a very precarious situation. In parallel with what has now happened in the UK, you will know that one of the most important aspects of Cameron's election campaign was the fact that the former Minister of Labour Finance left a role to say: « Money is over ». I do not know whether you have seen images of this matter, but the former minister of finance, unexpectedly but with that British scourge, left a written role, in the secretary of the future minister of finance, saying: « The money is finished». Well, we're starting out of this. By chance, you didn't leave any written papers, but the truth is, with you, you had finished the money. And we resign? No, sir, we did not resign. And after a few years of governance, what do we have? Unemployment: there are fewer than 75 000 unemployed in 1. the quarter of 2015 to 2014. Employment: 50 000 jobs were created in 1. the quarter of 2015 to 2014. Economy : is growing widely above average.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u232	Above the average? Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u233	What average? The average of the European Union is the same, it is 1, 4!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u234	More: contributions to social security — an aspect which is of interest to the honourable Member — No 1. the quarter grew 4, 5 %, far above the forecast, which was 4, 1 %. That is, plus EUR 150 million. So, honourable Member, we are not resigning. But the truth must be told to the Portuguese, and you have to tell it today too. You criticize the fact that the Government regrets that it will not be able to reduce the unemployment rate to below 10 % by 2019. You say, "Can't you? We'll make it! In 2019, we will reach 7, 4 %! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They just don't explain how they'll get to that value! It was therefore very important for you to tell us today how, in your scenario, with the growth to slow down in 2018 and 2019, you will have a reduction in the unemployment rate so remarkable. This is an essential issue and we also agree with the honourable Member that unemployment is in fact a scourge for demographics, as is the economy. But today there is a reversal of the situation, with the unemployment rate to be reduced, with the employment rate to be increased, with the economy to be developed, with practical and direct repercussions on people's lives. Mr President, behind unemployment and employment, there is a person, there is a family, there is a company, there is a society that wants to grow and re-emerge. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u235	To reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u236	Madam President, Mrs Rita Rato, I thank you for your questions. In fact, the honourable Member referred to the issues I put in my political statement and I would like to thank you for that. however, I would like to tell you this: I have difficulty realizing — this is a very used expression by Mrs Cecilia Meireles — how do you think decades of impoverishment have led the country where you are. You say, and sometimes well, that the social state is being destroyed. So when was it built? It was in the decades of impoverishment that you are talking about! It's just that it was in those decades that he was built, Mrs. Member. Look at the numbers and see how it was Portugal in 1978 and how it was in 2010. This historical reading is entirely sent. On specific issues, you will agree with me that the measures you have referred to — and the PS has already presented several — are important. We can disagree on one measure or another and agree on another. However, you will also agree with me that this is not the essential issue. The essential question of recovering from a demographic point of view is to reverse the economic and social situation in the country. I am sure that you agree with this statement and it was in this respect that I focused on my political statement. Measures to support birth, support for families, combating poverty are important, but will only take effect if the ability to create jobs, and more stable employment, offers families opportunities to have another view of their future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u238	That is what we have tried to bring to the debate and that is the essence of what we have presented as a macroeconomic scenario. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I would like to say that we are for social rights without restrictions, when they correspond to relations of a contributing nature. But we are also, in many social benefits that are necessary, in favour of the existence of a condition of resources for a social reason. Otherwise, if the family allowance were the same for all, for the rich and the poor, the poor workers who pay taxes would be benefiting the family allowance for the rich, who sometimes do not even pay them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the condition of resources is essential in some benefits and is in relation to this matter which we divide ourselves. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Mariana Aiveca.]] I am therefore responding to the question put by Mr Silva, who I am also grateful for. Mr President, it is true that the questions about demographic dynamics are old, have decades and some are structural, but unfortunately we are not talking about it. These reports on demography are made every three years and, even six years ago, the same report, which now points to the dramatic projection of 8, 2 million Portuguese in 2060, indicated for the same year 11, 3 million. Something has happened, and I, Mr President, do not even say that responsibility is all of you. Far from it! There was a profound economic crisis, there was an inability to respond to it by Europe and on your part there was the worst way to respond to the economic crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this contributed to this demographic degradation. Your policy has led in particular to emigration and the fall of fertility — the number of births fell in three more years than it fell in 20. Do you think this was by any chance? Do you think it was an event that has nothing to do with how economic and social policies have been conducted? I don't think so. Clearly, the crisis has a great responsibility for this, this happens in several countries. We recognize him, unlike you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We recognize that this happens in several countries and there are systemic, European reasons for the single currency. Not everything is our responsibility. When we read that responsibility is ours, that is the reading of some external opponents, we are undermining national interests, we are saying that it is our responsibility that it is the responsibility of others who have other interests and who place them in front of the interests of the European Union, where our interests are.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u240	Mr. Adam Silva spoke of the cuts in the family allowance. Do you remember that the first government to cut the family allowance was the government that you were part of? Oh, my God! The memory is sometimes treacherous! It was just a step, but your government was the first to do so. It is true that it was the Socialist Party that started the differentiation in the family allowance—and you, as much as I remember, supported—but who made the first cut at the highest level was a minister of solidarity who was part of the government to which you belonged.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u241	Upstairs. Now, it's the lowest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u242	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u243	Madam President, I shall conclude by referring to the final question put by Mr Adam Silva. Mr Stranger, how else economic policy can generate more employment. Mr President, I shall respond in a simpler way: for the same reason that your economic policy has generated much more unemployment than you had foreseen. You put the economy on the contrary and, when you predict a level of employment for 2015, it is 300 000 below,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u244	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u245	...because they misused the economic policy instruments. Well used, the same mechanisms will increase the job. That is our conviction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u246	This concludes the PS political declaration this afternoon. For a political declaration, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Thursday, the Ministry of Health announced that the Prevenar vaccine will integrate the National Vaccination Plan, i.e., it will be dispensed completely free of charge to all infants and children between the two months and the five years of age. It will also be dispensed free of charge to people with chronic diseases and diseases considered high-risk, such as HIV patients, certain obstructive pulmonary diseases or lung cancer. This was the announcement that the CDS had been waiting for nine years, when we proposed, for the first time, general and free access to this vaccine. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u248	This is certainly the decision the Portuguese families have been waiting for since 2001 when this vaccine entered the Portuguese market, and since then it has been fully borne by their families. It is worth remembering why we understand that this measure, now announced by the Ministry of Health, is so important: because it is a matter of public health, because it is a matter of equity and social justice and because it is a measure of support for birth. Let us first see the question of public health: this anti-pneumococcal vaccine prevents diseases as serious as meningitis, pneumonia, septicemia, acute otitis media. For this reason, it has been recommended by the World Health Organization for a long time. It is also recommended by pediatricians, pneumologists, the National Committee on Maternal Health of Children and Adolescents and other health professionals. Families want to vaccinate their children and prevent these diseases through this vaccination. In addition, experts confirm that the costs in terms of quality of life, lower morbidity, lower mortality, in addition to direct and indirect financial costs will always be lower than would be spent « in hospitalization and treatment of preventable cases and deaths». It is estimated that this measure can prevent up to 650 deaths per year and more than 3000 admissions. There will also be a significant reduction in the prescription of antibiotics in acute otitis mean in children, which is the main reason for the prescription of antibiotics, and this reduction is estimated to reach more than 8000 episodes of disease in children up to 10 years of age. It will never be too much to remember the basic principle of the National Vaccination Plan: vaccines allow for saving more lives and preventing more cases of disease than any medical treatment. And more: in countries where this vaccine is more widespread, there has been a breakdown in the rates of pneumococcal diseases, including among the population that has not been immunized. And why? Because the part of the population that was vaccinated limits the general contagion of these diseases so serious and so invasive. In summary, we quote the Director General of Health, Dr. Francisco George : "With this measure, we will win with fewer cases of diseases caused, we will avoid hospitalizations, we will avoid the use of antibiotics and we will save the lives of children who would die if the vaccine was not included in this universal way. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us also look at the question of equity and social justice: with this decision, a situation of enormous social injustice in Portugal ended. To guarantee this protection to their children, the parents of the children had to pay between 200 and 300 €, depending on the number of doses of the vaccine. Now, if this value is comportable for some, for many it was inaccessible; others still had to make incalculable efforts to immunise their children. This inequity ended last week, passing the National Health Service to assume this charge so that there is universal and general access. This is undoubtedly one more measure, one more sign of the Government's commitment to ensure that the founding principles of our health system are respected. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Finally, this is a clear measure of birth support, the data are clear and threatening: Portugal has seen since the 1980s a constant fall in birth rates, currently one of the lowest in the world and the lowest in Europe. Without being shortened, this continuity will seriously compromise the generational renewal, the demographic balance, the economic-social development and the sustainability of social protection systems (social security and health), systems that we all want to preserve, and the degradation of the social structure will be evident. Now, there is no reason for this low fertility rate, just as there is no single measure to solve it. Moreover, it would be desirable that there should be a genuine national strategy to reverse this trend. however, and only to speak in the area of health, measures have been taken to support those who want to have children or who want to have more children than those who already have. Of course, the priority given to pregnant women in access to a family doctor. On the other hand, maternal-child health indicators were never so encouraging and neonatal mortality rates were never so low. More recently, the exemption from moderate rates for all health care for all children and young people up to the age of 18 is another sign of support for birth. More than 400 000 people are free, with a universe of more than 6 million users currently exempt from the payment of moderate rates. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The free access of Preventing all infants and children is more than an obvious sign of birth support, it is a guarantee given to families that their children will benefit from health protection according to the highest international standards. Words are not enough, proclamations are not enough and mere rhetorics! Action is needed and options need to be made! [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u249	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u250	That is what the Government has done, despite the very heavy inheritance and the adjustment programme to which the previous government has subjected us. Choices have been made for health, equity and birth. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u251	Mrs. Deputy, four Members are registered. Members to ask for clarification, so you have the floor from now on to Mrs Laura Esperanza.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I would like to greet the Government for having decided to include the vaccine against pneumococcal meningitis in the National Vaccination Programme, which was exceptionally well received by all Portuguese. I also welcome the CDS, since it has been an important cause, in particular, of Mrs Teresa Caeiro, of which the PSD has joined, leading to the recent joint adoption of the draft resolution recommending to the Government the inclusion of the anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme. This decision of the Government therefore comes to the meeting of recommendations adopted by the Assembly of the Republic and shows the social conscience of the current PSD/CDS majority government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u254	A measure of aid to families, a real incentive for birth, for later on, which we cannot forget, of as great difficulties as that experienced by the Portuguese in recent years due to the irresponsibility of the previous governments of the Socialist Party. In fact, speaking of the Socialist Party may ask why you think the CDS that the PS did not put the vaccine against pneumococcal meningitis in the Vaccination Plan when it was government. Was it for the costs? Or why for PS the vaccine is not effective, how did it come to defend, proudly alone, then Minister of Health Ana Jorge? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u255	This issue is all the more relevant and it is true that it was still in the time of the Governments of the Socialist Party that the Directorate-General of Health issued an opinion considering relevant the introduction of the inclusion of the anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan and the PS did nothing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u256	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u257	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, allow me to say that the health, you and the CDS have brought this issue here, and I also congratulate them on their long-standing presentation of this proposal. The fact that this vaccine has been included in the National Vaccination Plan is good news for the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u259	We are not here to criticize the inclusion of the vaccine, we have never done so, and therefore we want to say here that it is good for Portuguese families, for Portuguese children and for the National Health Service that this vaccine is included further. So, I repeat, it's good news, we greet. What we regret is that once again this measure has been announced, or decided, to the good measure of the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u260	You've ruined everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u261	That is, firstly, it was said the tone of fear, kind of trial, that would be supported but only for the deprived families, i.e. the families who could not pay the vaccine had the support of the State and those who could not, contrary to the guidelines of the World Health Organization that argue that all people should be able to achieve their maximum health potential, without the economic and social circumstances impeding this objective. As you know, the vaccine defends not only the person who is vaccinated but the whole population, so this is a matter of public health. After withdrawing from this measure only to support the needy, the Minister announced that the vaccine would be for children born after June this year. Have the criticisms, again, of iniquity, rained down, and what did Mr. Minister do? He went back and, on the same day, in the afternoon, minutes before entering the plenary session, knowing that he was going to be criticized, he changed this measure again. This is a good example of how this government governs, advances, backwardness, the taste of public opinion, without a defined strategy. So we welcome the result, but we regret the method, which is once again the good style of this governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u262	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u263	I shall finish, but not without saying, Mr President, allow me, that Mrs Laura Esperanza mentioned here Mrs Anne Jorge and I understand, because she did not attend the debates then and therefore did not take them into account,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u264	I could have read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u265	... but the Minister said this, when it was not yet decided by the Committee on Therapy to include the vaccine, and we have always conditioned this approval to evidence of scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u266	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u267	When it was demonstrated, we no longer had time to do it, because that happened at the end of the mandate. But we have never been against inclusion and we welcome it happening right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u268	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u269	Mr President, Mrs Laura Esperanza, I thank you for your question and the references you have made. In fact, this issue of inclusion of the antipneumococcal vaccine, now with 13 valences, i.e., preventing 13 strains of very invasive bacteria, has been a very important issue for the CDS over recent years. As the honourable Member has said, this is another sign of the social conscience of this government, because, despite the varied constraints, this government has known, in the social areas, to make decisions that protect the most vulnerable. And allow me to add other areas, such as social security, through the social relief programme and the extension of day care vacancies, and from another area of health, but also to a very vulnerable population, with the free exemption from the vaccine against influenza for all over 65 years, reaching an accession rate of 70 %, finally, all of this is just a few examples of measures in which, despite the financial effort that this government and the country had to go through, there was always a preferential option for the most vulnerable. Mrs Salgueiro, I am grateful for your notes, especially the recognition that the inclusion of the vaccine is good news — the PS was not so effusive when I heard this announcement — but let me also make a few corrections. The first one, and I think it might be possible to apply to the whole government strategy, is this: how can the honourable Member say that there was no coherence in health policy? From the very beginning of the legislature, there was a need to clean up the financial hole of EUR 3000 million that you left.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u270	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u271	Three billion euros! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u272	Later, the government made improvements in health units, hospitals and access to primary and hospital health care. We have another 600 000 users with a family doctor, and this has been defined since the beginning, was one of Mr. Minister of Health's first announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u273	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u274	But let me make a few more corrections on this particular issue and on what you say are progresses and setbacks. I am very pleased to provide you with a statement from the Ministry of Health I have here, and even I have underlined the green, which says, very clearly, «the vaccine will become free for all children born after 1 January 2015 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u275	That was in the afternoon, in the morning it was something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u276	No, it wasn't in the afternoon and, Mrs. Deputy, I really like to hand it over to you. Secondly, a small correction to what happened in the Health Commission when Dr. Ana Jorge was Minister of Health. As Mrs Laura Esperanza has well said, the Minister of Health said that as a pediatrician, she did not prescribe or believe in this vaccine—and do you favor the use of services to obtain their recording—so it was not a matter of waiting for the efficacy studies of the Directorate-General for Health because, in fact, and as we had already indicated, it was already recommended by the World Health Organization ( WHO ), by the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics ( SPP ), by the overwhelming majority of specialists. Therefore, there was no need to wait for any other studies. Madam Member, for this government and for the parties that support this government, the question of social equity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u277	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u278	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, for this government and for the parties that support this government, the question of social equity, public health and the preferred choice for the most vulnerable is always ahead. And I ask you, Madam Member: are we better now or were we better before this decision was made? [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u279	I will return this question to you, Mrs Deputies. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u280	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u281	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, I understand the need of the parties of the majority and, in this particular case, of the CDS, to make interventions in order to emphasize any positive aspects of government policy in the area of health. I am sorry to say that, but I think this will be an enormous effort, because if there is any area of government policy in which all Portuguese and Portuguese have complaints, and a lot of complaints, it is in the area of health. Everyone knows what is going on in the area of health, with themselves or with some family member, except, of course, those who only resort to private medicine and do not know the National Health Service. But let's talk about the vaccine Prevent and talk about even, Mrs. Deputy, of the nine years of CDS struggle so that universal and free access to this vaccine could be possible. Madam Member, I must remind you again that, although the CDS struggle is a nine-year struggle, in 2013 the CDS did not propose, black in white, the inclusion of the vaccine. Once again, he proposed to the Government to study this hypothesis—it is written in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, but I think no doubt is left to anyone. But, Madam Member, nine years later, is it not strange that it is precisely on the eve of elections and at the end of its term of office that the Government decides to include the vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan? Oh, my God! Will it be by any chance, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! Is that by any chance? Oh, my God! I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u282	We never do anything by chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u283	But I do not want to leave this debate without making it a very concrete challenge, because, as the honourable Member said in the rostrum, there is not enough proclamations and rhetoric, action is needed. Vaccines avoid death, avoid hospitalization, reduce the consumption of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u284	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u285	I will finish now, Mr President. All this is true, but then, Mrs. Member, there is a very concrete proposal from the Left Block, in the field of specialty, that the vaccine against rotavirus is included in the National Vaccination Plan, which, as you know, is gastroenteritis. It is a disease that affects children, which has repercussions on public health, on the health of families and, even in the economy, so that all specialists point to this situation as being necessary to change it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u286	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u287	Therefore, honourable Member, do not leave this debate without saying — without proclamations, but with actions — if you will vote in favour of the draft resolution of the Left Block, so that further progress is made in terms of the National Vaccination Plan. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u288	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u289	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, when I heard your speech, I thought that, as last week the Minister and the Government, in the morning, decided to extend the scope of vaccination in another six months, Mrs Caeiro, today, she was here to tell us that, after all, the anti-pneumococcal vaccine was for all Portuguese. I have been misled, but we still hope that this decision will indeed be reformulated and that the integration of this vaccine into the National Vaccination Plan will be for all Portuguese. This announcement that the CDS came here to value, boasting of this same decision, you know little by little. And you know little by little, because it effectively only takes into account children born from 1 January 2015. So why do children born in November or December 2014 not have access? Oh, my God! Why? Oh, my God! What is the scientific and clinical reason why children have access and others do not have it? Oh, my God! Do you call this equity? Oh, my God! Do you think there's an equal treatment here, Your Honor? Oh, my God! I think what's here is a great inequality! And when we have a National Health Service that is for everyone—for all and not only for the most unprotected—which is universal, general and for all, the differentiation between those who have and those who do not have is done at another level, because that guarantees equality in treatment between all Portuguese, so that there are no Portuguese of 1. a is 2. the, is a National Health Service of quality, for everyone. We are surprised that, indeed, this decision did not cover all Portuguese who could be vaccinated with this vaccine. We recognize the clinical value of this vaccine and propose its inclusion in the National Vaccination Plan, including in the context of the debate on birth, as we did with other vaccines, such as rotavirus or type B anti-pneumococcal vaccine, which we believe should also be integrated into the National Vaccination Plan. But she said here that the CDS had nine years of intervention for this vaccine to be integrated into the National Vaccination Plan. Now, the government that the CDS supports has been ruling for four years and now, at the end of the term of office, has it been remembered? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Madam Member, if this was such a relevant matter, if the CDS considered it so relevant, why did the decision not arise sooner, or are there electoral objectives here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u290	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u291	I shall conclude by saying the following: what characterizes the policies of the PSD, the CDS and this government is a deep disrespect for users, a deep disrespect for health professionals and an unprecedented offensive to the National Health Service. And now, in a hurry, they are trying to put forward kind measures to deceive Portuguese and hide those that have been the consequences of their policies in the past four years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u292	In reply, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Helena Pinto and Paula Santos, first of all, I thank the questions raised. I don't know why I have the feeling that the Members are very uncomfortable with the good news. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u294	I'll be angry!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u295	You are so uncomfortable that you are finding arguments behind arguments to avoid recognizing that this news is extraordinary. Mrs Paula Santos, how can you say that, now, this vaccine will be universal, general and free for all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u296	Where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u297	...there are 1 Portuguese. a is 2. What's the matter? Oh, my God! There were Portuguese 1. a is 2. before, before, this initiative! Secondly, I would like to recall that one week ago Mr. Minister of Health was here and said that he was studying, between the Directorate-General of Health, the Central Health System Administration (ACSS), the Infarmed and the industry, the possibility of free vaccination for children born earlier. Madam Member, I would also recommend that you study, because, as you will know, if you study, this vaccine should be administered in the first few months, from the first few months and, later, from a certain age, less doses will be sufficient. Therefore, up to the clinical point of view, this has to be studied.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u298	What is the difference between December and January? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u299	Now, what I really think is inconceivable is that ladies can't even cover up the discomfort because they hear good news. The honourable Members have questioned the fact that these options are only now being taken, so I don't know if Mrs Paula Santos would have preferred this measure to have been announced before the free exemption of the innovative medicine for the cure of hepatitis C? Oh, my God! I know that you have never been called to make choices, but I tell you one thing, Mrs. Member : to make politics is to decide, to make choices,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u300	What is the difference between December and January? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u301	...because we have no illusion that there are no finite budgets. Or, then, Mrs. Member, this could have been announced earlier and three linear accelerators had not been bought to do radiotherapy in the three IPOs, Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra's! [[PCP protests.]] Maybe you guys had chosen another way. Or, then, perhaps they had not extended, as they were extended, the exemptions of moderate rates! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u302	These measures, taken throughout the legislature, were taken as there was a thorough management of decisions that could be taken. I cannot accept, in any way, that you say now that the decisions are taken. Would you rather she hadn't been taken? I returned the question: would you rather she not have been taken? [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Mrs Helena Pinto has made very varied interventions saying that the National Health Service is probably worse than ever. I am going to tell you this: a study was published by independent entities that say that the level of satisfaction of users who use health services is 89 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u303	Yeah, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u304	It's 89%. So, a lot of satisfaction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u305	Yeah, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u306	I'll also have the pleasure of getting you to get these studies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u307	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u308	Madam Member, it is very easy to get here and say that everything is going wrong, but I also suggested some study and some reflection on these assessments by independent entities, such as the Health Regulatory Entity and other entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u309	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u310	Mr President, I will conclude by saying that there is a « before» and there is a « after». There is before the announcement of this measure, in which we found a public health problem, a problem of social injustice and a measure that was missing, of many, to support birth. That action has now been taken. So there is a « before» and there is a « after». This "former" was the time when the Socialist Party ruled and lasted until last week.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u311	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u312	We are clearly in « after». [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] Madam Member, I am not going to take decisions now and here and, with all due respect, I tell you that it is not Mrs Helena Pinto who is going to force the CDS to make a decision here, in plenary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u313	Please finish, Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u314	...because the honourable Member so wishes. [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] It's still us who manage our agenda. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u315	At the end of the period for political declarations, we will turn to point 2 of our agenda, which will be completed by the debate of draft resolution No 1439 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and eliminate practices of police violence and racism ( BE). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u316	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents this initiative in order to find measures to prevent and eliminate forms of police violence and manifestations of racism. It is not worth making any generalizations in this debate about the operation of the security forces, not wasting time on it, but we want to talk about concrete problems. In our understanding, it is all wrong when a security officer attacks or uses racist insults or when houses of unprotected populations go down to a huge police apparatus. This was the case in the Cova da Moura neighborhood, and we well remember young activists from the Youth Mill Association who reported having been assaulted and victims of racist insults. It was thus in the demolition of the houses of populations unprotected in the neighborhoods Santa Filomena, Estrela d'Africa, May 6 – women with children, elderly and elderly saw their homes come down, with intervention from the Municipal Police or, in a well-arranged cord, from the Rapid Intervention Corps, who never presented any documents attesting to the legitimacy of their performance. We know that the problem is up. The policies were pushing the populations to the peripheries, draining the minorities to the edges of the municipalities so that they would not have problems. In our understanding, the answer cannot be violence! It is in this sense that the draft resolution we present here defends: the non-zonation of the Rapid Intervention Corps; the urgent inspection of all complaints; the need to assess and advertise, in an independent report, all victims of police violence and racism; the strengthening of the police of proximity, with a partnership policy, of trust relations, with all the conditions necessary for security forces; the promotion of the training of agents in the defence of human rights and against racism; the evaluation of the introduction of video surveillance cameras, in particular in the teams where there are complaints of abuse; the urgent regulation of the figure of the sociocultural mediator. These are answers that require responsibility in debate and solutions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u317	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this draft recommendation from the Left Block and being clear at the outset, I would like to say that we do not follow this legislative initiative. We understand the rhetorical interest and idea that the Left Block has, and that we have heard here today, in making a set of more or less electoral statements on this matter. However, what this project has to do, so to speak, is unnecessary, even because it is not new; in what it has again, in fact, we do not follow it, we do not agree and consider it unnecessary. What do we mean by this, to be clearer? It is clear that this is a serious problem, it is real and obviously unacceptable in Portuguese society or any other society. Any conduct of police violence, including police violence associated with any type of phenomenon of racism, would be absolutely unacceptable, as is clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u320	On that, we all agree. Now, with more or less uncomfortable to the Left Block, we had occasion to hear, today morning, Mrs. Minister of Internal Administration, who said periodically, on behalf of those who have guardianship, direction and can instruct their own security forces, reject, vehemently deny the existence of racist behaviors by the police. Secondly, he told us, stressing that he was saying this in an emphatic way, that our security forces are subject to and scrupulously comply with the Code of Conduct of the Council of Europe. Thirdly, we met with the associations of these neighbourhoods where the problems existed and they told us - that the solution they want is closer and closer policing - it has been said to us today by the government that the police of proximity has not only decreased (it is a demand for the associations of residents, such as the Youth Mill Association) as it has, on the contrary, increased significantly. On the other hand, behaviours that existed would be subject to investigations. We know that there have been investigations, we know that the investigations are rigorous and we know that we will have conclusions on them. Therefore, what this project would propose useful, which would be the existence of a committee, the existence of dialogue, the existence of the formation of the agents themselves, all this has been guaranteed to us today, even in the morning, that is being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u322	That is, police training, the civic training of the police is being done and guaranteed. There have been very extensive meetings with the associations, with the committees that have the obligation in Portugal to monitor and combat any kind of racism, with the heads of the security forces, with the residents... There have been extended meetings and, of these meetings, a result has come out — which is what this project could be useful and, therefore, I say that, in what it could be useful, it is unnecessary — that is, it has left these meetings, as, moreover, it is proposed, an early warning committee, i.e. a committee that has an obligation to, in the face of any phenomenon, any abuse, any exaggeration, any wrong behavior by the police, to make a warning.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u323	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u324	As for the rest, we don't follow. In other words, in serious situations, preventing the intervention body from making a zoning is not acceptable, it also creates a general suspicion principle about security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u325	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u326	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is, moreover, curious that the Left Block, which, whenever proposed video surveillance, is against, is now in favour of video surveillance. But to watch who? It's not the thieves, it's the cops!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u328	That is, as long as video surveillance serves to monitor the police, the Left Block is in favor. [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] It is not acceptable, it creates a general principle of suspicion, it does not solve the problem, which is being dealt with, as has been said today, in a serious way. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u329	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is always understandable that Parliament can express its attention to possible situations involving, under any circumstances, abuse in the exercise of authority or by public authorities, particularly police. It is also always acceptable that Parliament, through its supervisory capabilities, should seek, when such events may occur, to consult with those responsible, the evaluation of the episodes that may take place. And it is also natural and understandable that it is sought to know, from what may be the investigations in the meantime launched, the evaluation of incidents that may have shown a more accurate severity index. This is, however, an aspect in which, I believe, we can all converge.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u331	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u332	But another aspect, in my view, is that of being able to start any situation, however censorable it may have been, for a guideline that would imply calling on Parliament to recommend the elimination of practices of police violence and racism, which, of course, would have, as it were, assumed, that the usual climate of our police forces is to practice excess violence and to disseminate racist attitudes in their behaviors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u333	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u334	We do not, of course, follow this motivation. And because we do not follow it up, we would like to point out that, yes, we will criticise the government, however, for a lack of sufficient attention to the requirements of the nearby police. The testimony of the Minister of Internal Administration this morning in the Commission has already been mentioned here. Because the Minister of Internal Administration has just had to recognise that, in terms of local security contracts involving local authorities and other institutions representing the communities, they are now reduced to only a local security contract in the city of Loures, which means a huge indemnity on the part of the government in increasing proximity policies and, in particular, the proximity police. And this is precisely the point: when the development of local security contracts has been made, particularly in some of the critical neighborhoods already mentioned today, many of the incidents which have been mentioned in the meantime have not taken place, because the confidence framework that has been restored between communities and police prevention has been an entirely healthy framework of trust. I myself, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during my government functions, I have had occasion to be for more than once in a neighborhood such as the Cova da Moura to develop citizenship dynamisation programmes and to verify that, when the functions of proximity and appreciation of communities are taken seriously, many of the problems are avoidable. Well, let's avoid them too now, not throwing anathemas on our police forces...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u335	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u336	...and resolving, on time, the issues that deserve to be resolved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u337	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Paula Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u338	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: The draft resolution submitted by the Left Block has already suffered some of the considerations with which I am concerned, in particular with that of my colleague Telmo Correia. however, I cannot but say that there was some mix of issues in this draft resolution, particularly by joining the incidents of the Cova da Moura with the demolition of some neighborhoods and, still, with a pseudo-report of Amnesty International. Before any other consideration, the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to make it clear that it trusts and respects our police forces. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u339	however, repudiates, as it is evident, any isolated act that looks at some racial aspect or excessive violence. Our police are governed by democratic principles, it is respectful and fulfilling fundamental rights. He's neither racist nor intolerant nor violent. In fact, our PSP is a pioneer security force in the implementation of the proximity police. in this context, the PSP conceived the Integrated Model of Police and Proximity, the so-called MIPP, which is implemented at national level and has special incidence in sensitive urban areas, as is the case of Cova da Moura. PSP is a security force that develops multiple partnerships with civil society. Stigmatize, deny or transform some isolated cases into generalities, which only serve as mere political and media use, does not do justice to the work and the competence of our police,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u340	... nor does it contribute to the effective improvements, where they are necessary. We are all united in that there are serious social problems associated with these peripheral neighborhoods as well as with certain sensitive urban areas. These problems require a cross-cutting response and are not limited to a police response. The PSP, within its tasks, affects the resources it considers appropriate, in view of the intensity of the risk, using criteria of legality and proportionality. The events of February are being investigated by the IGAI, moreover, as the Minister mentioned in the morning at the hearing of the Commission, therefore awaiting the conclusion of this investigation. It should be noted, however, that the latest annual internal security reports allow us to conclude that the activity of this police body has been correct, intense and fruitful. The recommendation to promote the formation of police forces in the areas of fundamental rights and the creation of a socio-cultural mediator raises two questions: first, in the formation of PSP, either in the initial, or in the subsequent, training in a more specialized field, the theme of human rights is always present in all training modules; second, the figure of the socio-cultural mediator has its equivalent in the so-called, and already mentioned, local security contracts, which, although created, have not managed to be implemented—only the one of Loures works, due, and here he praises, to the commitment of the municipality. Improvements can certainly be done. Companies evolve into different realities and police forces will have to adapt to this evolution. And our police forces are paying attention to these realities. The Left Block, with this project, by trying to shake over the police forces a responsibility that cannot be shaken, since the problems of these neighborhoods are much broader, ends up killing a problem and at the same time tries to discredit our police. This path chosen by the Left Block is not the best. Better path has chosen the PSP, which since March of this year has taken the initiative to meet with the living forces of the civil society of Cova da Moura and, following these meetings, which have been repeated, has assumed the responsibility of implementing a new approach and definition of intervention strategies in sensitive urban areas in the field of proximity police. The commitment of the PSD and the Government, aware that no model is universal and rigid, is that we are always attentive and available to seek new approaches to deal with phenomena of violent crime, but in a responsible and appropriate manner with the territory and its problems. Calling the racist and violent police is an offense not only to the visas but to all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u341	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution presented by the Left Block should be considered with due attention. What we are discussing is indeed the adequacy of police action. If we are asked if we consider that the Portuguese security forces are generally inadequate, we say that they are not. In fact, we generally appreciate the operation of the security forces in our country. But if we are asked if we consider that under no circumstances there are inappropriate actions or situations of violence to be investigated, there will surely be them and they deserve our attention. Complaints arising from less appropriate actions by security forces and resulting in an inadequate performance or violence against citizens should of course deserve our attention and there should be, on the part of entities with inspection powers, including the General Inspection of the Internal Administration, due investigation, and, of course, there should be permanent attention by the Assembly of the Republic to monitor the adequacy of police action. That being said, there is a recurring question, which is whether, in those areas which are commonly considered, either either well or poorly, as more problematic, the operation of police forces is the best. Obviously, this is a debate that we have for several years and that is still the subject of debate, because we know that there are, in fact, areas in our country where there is a controversy about police action and sometimes there are situations of animosity between the people and the actions of the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u343	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u344	We must speak about this with serenity, that is, not in the sense of considering that on one side are all the good ones and on the other side are all the bad ones. It's not like that. We know that these situations are complex and must be addressed in all their complexity. Therefore, considering that the draft resolution of the Left Block has relevant questions, there is a question of which we demarcate, pointing out our divergence, which is the issue of video surveillance within the teams. We don't think that's the way. We have a very reserved position with regard to the generalization of video surveillance, for which there is a great trend. We believe that we must combat this trend and that what we must safeguard is that there is legal assistance within the teams, i.e. that no one is denied legal assistance when faced with arrest or presence at the police stations. In fact, for many years there should be lawyers in the teams, precisely to deal with these situations and for no one to remain without the legal assistance that is due to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u345	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u346	That is the point where we clearly disagree and, at the time of the vote, we will ask for a separate vote on this point. As for the rest, we believe that the concerns expressed by the Left Block are legitimate, they are fair and must be the object of proper consideration by this House, so that there is no — that is what it is intended to avoid — situations of incompatibility between the security forces and the populations they serve precisely to defend them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u347	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will try to give some seriousness to this debate, which has been basically rejected by the majority seats. They accused us of generalizations and we didn't. But it is useful, in your view, because it was the way they used to put the concrete problems under the carpet, that is, they refused to discuss the concrete problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u349	Don't argue like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u350	They refused to find answers to specific situations. Mr Telmo Correia said — and he said — including the Minister of Internal Administration — « we have listened carefully to the associations, we follow this problem with concern». however, in the face of concrete solutions, the answer is: we do not follow and do not follow because the problem, after all, does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u351	It exists and is being resolved!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u352	That is what the honourable Member here has said: the problem does not exist! The honourable Member does not even have the result of the inspection report to be made on complaints, but he has also decided to interpret the words of the Minister of Internal Administration, saying that the police of proximity has increased. What does this mean? Where do you hear Mr. Minister say that the proximity police have increased? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u353	I said, I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u354	from the PS side, we already know that Mr Jorge Lacão at least has a strong understanding of security with Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, but at least recognize the seriousness of the debate we have launched today, asking us what happened or questioning one of the possible approaches to policing strategies that are the so-called Local Security Contracts. In view of such obvious and urgent issues, from our point of view, how to strengthen the proximity police and the urgent inspection of these situations, with the presentation of an independent report on all cases, which should be known to everyone, what is the response of the PS? Nothing! You have nothing to say about this. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this country is not the United States of America. This isn't Baltimore! We cannot, in any way, walk in the sense in which militarized units can do routine, daily police, when they are called for special missions and are the last resort.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u355	That's not what's written there! Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u356	They wanted to fight the conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u357	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u358	They did not want this to be a serious conversation, but we cannot forget it, because it requires all respect for the victims, whose situation has to be examined, and a strategy that holds everyone accountable. And so I conclude, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u359	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the last item on our agenda today, which consists of the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1217 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government provide consumers with adequate information on the social energy tariff and exceptional social support to the energy consumer ( PS ) and 1462 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensure full access to electricity and gas by families with economic difficulties ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party brings back to discussion in plenary this draft resolution because the situation that the Portuguese live in relation to the social energy, electricity and gas tariff continues to be resolved. So far, what has happened is that this tariff is not just a government propaganda. In fact, what we see is that the number of Portuguese at risk of poverty has increased to 2.7 million, that is, there are 2 7 million Portuguese at risk of poverty, which, as we see in this chart, has increased every year. What happened to the social energy tariff? The Government, by the words of Minister Mota Soares, said it had the aim of reaching 700 000 Portuguese. He announced it in 2011, but it is well noticed at that time that this rate reached 70,000 Portuguese electricity. at this time, instead of reaching more Portuguese, as would be natural with the increase in poverty, what happens is that the number of Portuguese who have access to the tariff has been reduced to 45 000, only. This is, however, a situation in which the ineffectiveness and problems of access to that tariff are indeed demonstrated. The Socialist Party has always said that it is necessary to unlock the issues that prevent access to the social electricity and gas tariff. We know, and we cannot admit, that the Government uses it, together with these Portuguese people, that they need, only as propaganda, not actually implementing the measures necessary for companies, who have this responsibility, to grant it to consumers. In fact, we also had this discussion in the Commission and ERSE itself said that there are problems in access to the tariff, that there are companies that prevent access, but they are not only companies. It is noted that social security itself also prevents it — often does not help these families to have access to the tariff, quite the contrary, prevents access to possible users. Now, we are talking about poor families, so that the Socialist Party, with this project—and it is nothing extraordinary, but sometimes it is with simple things that are blocking situations—, it means that it is social security, which already has the identification of these users, to communicate directly with the beneficiaries of this measure, so that they can automatically get these users to take off this tariff. We also intend that the Regulatory Authority of Energy Services itself should work with companies to ensure that there is a broad information campaign. As the consumer associations themselves have already said, this campaign does not exist, the government does not do what it is responsible for, does not do what it is saying in terms of propaganda, quite the contrary, it is even allowing this situation to remain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u361	For an intervention to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We face a very serious social problem in Portugal, which is that of 300 000 customers with cuts in their light supply. Cuts by late payment of accounts in benefits increased by 25 %. DECO says that there are more than 15 % of families who cannot pay their light account and more than 30 % of families who do not pay their gas account. It is a social drama when we have families in Portugal who cannot have light or heating in their homes, which is reflected in another surprising indicator, which has recently emerged, which gives notice of seasonal mortality and of how Portugal is at the top of the list of countries with the highest seasonal mortality, these indicators that still show that one fifth of seasonal mortality is due to poor housing conditions. However, this concerns the lack of isolation and capacity for heating, because there is neither sufficient support in this regard nor sufficient support, but it also concerns a number of people who, in fact, have no money to have connected heating, gas or electricity. This is a very serious problem that we have to solve in Portugal. This problem has several causes, but low income, poverty, low wages have contributed to this: families where one or more members of the family are unemployed, are living with grandparents, in homes with poor quality, finally, all this poverty policy also contributes to energy poverty. On the other hand, prices are higher. Electricity in Portugal is very expensive, or better, electricity and gas are at the highest levels in Europe and this is due to the administrative incomes that the electrics have, decided by law, throughout various governments, but it is also due to VAT. It is not clear how electricity in Portugal pays the same VAT as a luxury product, when it is an essential asset to survival, heating and the minimum quality of life. But this also has to do with a social tariff that does not go as far as it should go, and it does not come up for lack of information, because the criteria are not the right criteria and for the bad will of the companies, which do not allow it. We have several complaints — and this has already been confirmed by ERSE when we were here and we had the opportunity to confront — that companies are hampering this process. EDP is hampering access to the social tariff. in this sense, the Left Block presents here five recommendations that we think can contribute to solving this problem. Firstly, we believe that the suspension of the supply of electricity and gas should not be allowed for lack of payment to people who are at the poverty line. A person should not cease to have access to light only because he is poor and has no money to pay, because light is a minimum service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u363	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u364	A person may not have food at home to rot because he does not have light to have a refrigerator; he cannot fail to have light for children to study or to have a minimum of conditions for household chores. This is a minimum of human rights. No one can have electricity or gas cut, no one can lose the right to take a hot bath because he's poor and he can't pay the bills of light. It seems to us that this is a very sensible proposal. We also put forward proposals to extend the criteria for allocating the social tariff. We believe that these criteria should be extended to bottle gas, which feeds many houses that do not yet have natural gas, and we press the criteria so that companies cannot escape the allocation of the social tariff, making this social tariff guarantee compulsory or automatic, and then it is up to the companies to check whether or not, by crossing the data with the Tax Authority and social security, to meet the criteria for allocating the social tariff. Our draft resolution therefore envisages a set of proposals that we think help solve this social drama, which is that of the number of people without access to electricity or gas. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u365	Mr Hélder Amaral has the support of Mr Hélder Amaral for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that there is a matter where there is indeed information and asymmetry in this matter, between companies in the electro-producer sector or gas distribution and consumers, especially the most vulnerable consumers, whom we are talking about here and for which the two parliamentary boards have decided to take the initiative, and this is indeed a matter which deserves all our attention, all our care and that mechanisms are created for some rigour. And rigor here is, in itself, the greatest criterion of justice and must be in all respects. If it is good to discuss this matter, because it allows more information to the citizen, it is also good to understand which basis are contained in these proposals. And there, I'm really sorry, but there's something we need to clarify. A responsible and coherent attitude, looking very carefully and not creating excessive income, is the most secure so that we can have electricity and gas at sustainable prices, so that we can have economic growth and there is less need for a social tariff. Now, who was not diligent, who was not careful, who gave prizes, bonuses, excessive income to the electro-producer sector, is called the Socialist Party. See what has increased in SGEI ( services of general economic interest ), in EPC ( energy acquisition contracts) and CMEC ( costs for maintaining the contractual balance ), what this government has now tried to reduce with contracts signed in a rule of law. I am going further: who created the tariff deficit, which would require energy increases in the order of 30 % or 40 %, according to ERSE, that we have to conform to reduced increases? I also asked Mrs Mariana Mortágua how we can pay this VAT. Well, the Memorandum required a VAT revenue which was recorded (the Socialist Party does not say what products) and the Government was obliged to meet this goal, increasing the price of electricity, but was not insensitive. And on this matter no comment should be made to the parliamentary groups of the majority and to the government because we were sensitive, by creating something that did not exist, a social rate of gas and electricity. How? On condition of resources. The information is given to the consumer by various ways, so that he knows what rights and what possibilities he has; that same information is conveyed by a set of mechanisms; the Government has improved the legislation, then produced by the Socialist Party, to go further, to be more effective, to confirm, to monitor, to monitor and penalize others who do not comply. I give it cheap, and ERSE has noted this, that we have complaints that some companies are not actually fulfilling or mitigating information to users. On this matter, which is without doubt, the CDS considers this unacceptable. If any company does not provide combined prices and does not allow any citizen to exercise the right of access to the social tariff that it needs, of course, that we have to ask the regulatory entity, with all the mechanisms that exist, to be tough with that company. This is unacceptable, besides being immoral and completely unjust. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u367	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u368	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that what the Socialist Party and the Left Block have proposed reflects two things: that the Government has been well, that is a good measure, deserves the support of the Left Block and the Socialist Party but that, if they do not mind, they will do more effectively. That is exactly what we are doing, i.e. fulfilling it effectively and, therefore, there is here an unnecessary unnecessary oversight of VV. For example, there is thanks for drawing attention to this good measure of the Government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u369	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss these issues, we remember that this government, at the beginning of its term of office, one of the first measures it took, in terms of energy policy, was this huge increase in taxes with which you passed VAT from electricity and natural gas from 6 % to 23 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u371	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u372	It was then, and from then on, that energy prices for the vast majority of the population fired and moved to this lamentable podium of the highest prices in Europe. It is in this context that all this propaganda of social support, of the tariff that would not leave anyone behind, etc. etc. The government was talking about goals and goals to reach the 500 000 people, the 700 000 people — indeed, just as the former PS Government was talking about. But what has been the evolution of this universe of people covered by the social tariff in recent years? It was a negative development, from almost 90 000 families to 54 000, between 2011, the year in which the government took possession, and 2013, according to the latest data we have. There are 54 000 contracts in a total of six million BTN contracts (low normal voltage ). We have warned this situation for years. During this period, wages decreased in Portugal. We have spent an average wage equivalent to 44 % of what was done in Germany to 38 %, not to mention the overwhelming tax burden imposed on workers. It has increased the population at risk of poverty. You say it is the crisis, this is bad, that sacrifices are for everyone, but this was so bad that this last year only the clean profits of GALP Energy were of EUR 373 million, the EDP's were of more than EUR 1000 million, more than 126 million of Renewable EDP, and those of Iberdrola were of EUR 2, 33 billion. It's true to say, this is going to be a crisis! The CFP is, as always, available to work and contribute to more fair solutions and concrete advances that improve people's situation. We believe that all end-users whose income is equal to or below the poverty threshold must access the social rate, that the discount is not less than 50 % of the rate of access to low-pressure networks in natural gas and that the financing of the cost of these measures is borne by traders and electroproducers. We are available to contribute to a just solution with regard to social support and tariff, but this issue does not replace or allow us to ignore two fundamental issues that we need to take into account: the overwhelming tax burden on energy, which has to be withdrawn once and for all, and this character, essentially incorrigible and, we would say, unmanageable, which is underlying the political and strategic decisions that have been followed, to point out and deepen the liberalisation and privatization of this sector. It is inevitable, when we talk about companies that have this type of positioning, this type of agenda and this type of strategy, that someone says it is not to frighten this difficulty all that seems to exist, and there is even, in the application of the social tariff, with the collaboration that seems so difficult on the part of these companies. It is appropriate to ask: What were you waiting for? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u373	Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past four years, the Portuguese have been called upon to make a collective effort to save the country from the pre-failence situation when the current government took office. The fact is that, despite this difficult reality, there was a great concern of the government to support those who had lower incomes and those who had the most difficulties. It is also said, in the name of the truth and about the need to support families, that the social rate of electricity supply to apply to economically more vulnerable final customers was created by the previous Government, by Decree-Law No 138/2010 of 28 December, but it is also necessary to say here and now, and because it is also true, that the number of people who had access to social tariff at that time, created by the previous Government, was zero, zero! I repeat, so that no doubt remains: no one had access to any social tariffs during the period when the previous government created this regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u375	It depends on the door and the door was yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u376	The current government has always expressed concern about supporting families that showed clear situations of economic vulnerability and introduced legislative changes that allowed the eligibility criteria to be extended. Thus, beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement are considered eligible for the elderly, social income for inclusion, social unemployment benefit, family allowance, social disability pension and old age pension. It is important to make this statement today, here and now, after what we have heard, so that there is no doubt about what is at stake here. With this extension of access to the social tariff, the Government wants this measure to benefit about 500 000 electricity supply contracts. What is at stake is the expansion of 60 000 to 500 000. The Socialist Party's own draft resolution refers to 60 000 and not zero, almost nothing, as Mrs Hortense Martins said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u377	I'll explain next!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u378	What is at stake is the extension of 60 000 to 500 000 families, with a discount on the gross value of the invoice which can reach 34 %. What is at stake here is that with these measures which the Government has taken, with more facilitated access measures, it may be possible to have a reduction of up to 34 %, i.e. about one third of the total turnover. Natural gas consumers can also benefit from the social rate. It is therefore clear to all that those who are truly concerned about the social tariff are the Government and the majority of the parliaments who support it. For these objectives, an information campaign was launched in March 2015 in a number of media outlets and is currently running through the TTCs, which aims to reach the beneficiaries of social allowances and pensions. Furthermore, and it is a relevant fact that, in the framework of the energy sector's sanction, ERSE is working on situations detected as a result of non-compliance by companies, as mentioned above, and well. Therefore, if there are cases, and there are cases that have been referred by ERSE itself, of companies that are not or may not be complying with what is determined in the law, ERSE is acting. Therefore, the government has played its role, has created legislation, has created a sanction framework and ERSE is acting. It seems to me that this is the way to be followed. But what is most relevant in this debate, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in conclusion, it is the agreement that the Socialist Party has expressed with the extension of the social tariff to more families, as well as with the efforts that have been made by the Government in the application, dissemination and monitoring of this social tariff. Finally, I would like to say to the Socialist Party that there is no need to worry about what is being done, yes, to worry about what is missing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u379	For a very brief intervention, given the short time available, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u380	Mr President, I regret that the PSD and the CDS do not give in to the temptation to always go back, always throwing blame, to avoid a little the discussion we have today, which has nothing to do with the PS. The discussion with the PS on PS policies we have to have it, and the PS will certainly have a lot of guilt on the chart. The question that we are discussing here is this: do you think that we should prevent poor families from being left out of light? Yes or no? The answer is simple: yes or no. Yes or no, should families be out of light because they don't have any money to pay for the light account? The answer seems simple to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u381	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u382	I would like to benefit from the same tolerance given to the other parliamentary groups, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u383	There are no precedents in this matter, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u384	Yes or no, should we extend the social rate to the gas shop? Yes or no? The answer is simple. Yes or no, should the mechanisms for access to social tariffs be strengthened? Yes or no? There are five of the recommendations we make, which, if the honourable Members do. Members were careful to read, add to what has already been done, and it has been in the right direction. So it is very simple: yes or no, should we improve these mechanisms? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have no problem with this, vote in favour. If they don't do it, it's because they live well with the drama of people who still can't have light at home because they don't have money to pay. It's as simple as this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[That's pure demagogy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u385	Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor for a very brief speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I will remind you that, yes, whoever created the social tariff was the PS because if not, this majority would not have done so at this time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u387	In fact, the PS created this social tariff. However, something has happened: our government has fallen — and it has fallen out of responsibilities to which VV. Ex. They're not all strangers. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It should also be noted that, in the meantime, for this decree to be applied, there was a need for a portal defining the access criteria. Who is the "father" of the door? It is the majority PSD / CDS, through its own government that is currently in office. But at least this majority could stop being so radical and obtuse and check the proposals we bring to plenary, these proposals that are not radical and just want to unlock something in terms of access that the government itself, as well as the ERSE itself, has already recognized as being difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u388	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u389	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, given that in Portugal the price paid by domestic gas is the second largest in the European Union and the price of electricity is the eighth highest, with the fifth largest increase, what do we see? Your total insensitivity. And the Portuguese are still away because you are simply making a policy of 'be careful': they realize that they give the social tariff and, in fact, do not unlock the accesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u390	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u391	I shall finish, Mr President, with a quote. The former Secretary of State Henrique Gomes, who resigned from the Government, says that «the government has failed in the commitment that there are no real increases in energy above 1 % » for giving in to lobbies controlling excessive incomes – and at present the tariff deficit is already EUR 5000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-13.u392	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1217 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) and 1462 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( BE) we have also completed our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda for the consideration of Bill No. 898 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment to the Co-operative Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ) is to be voted on at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 32 minutes.]]
