ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — with the congratulations of the Bureau and, in this first debate of 2015 with the Prime Minister, I express here my wish for a good year —, Mr President. Journalists and Mr. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. As you all know, today we have scheduled the 15th-year debate under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, a model which translates into a debate with a previous stage of questions to the Prime Minister. The order of parties questions is as follows: Greens, PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP and Left Block. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor by the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u2	Mr President, Prime Minister, the first question I have to ask you is whether perhaps the Prime Minister has brought with him today the bill of charges for the privatisation of TAP, because we would like to see, with our own eyes, whether it is true that this bill of charges provides that two and a half years from now we can fire the workers of TAP. And more: if it is true that trade union workers who do not sign the agreement with the Government for the privatisation of TAP may be dismissed, already. The question I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, is whether, perhaps, this is indeed true — because yesterday I saw the Minister of Economics so disturbed that I finally wondered, what the government wants to prove with this. You want to prove that everyone's up, but who's not up to you first? Mr. Prime Minister, what social peace do you think can happen to something with this nature? What the Government is basically proving is that the privatisation of TAP can actually be a passport for unemployment. in his desire for propaganda and illusion, the government tries to get the idea that everything is guaranteed in the book of charges and we have already seen that it is not. But we have also seen this «film», Mr Prime Minister, and that was what it was with PT : it was all guaranteed and it gave to the disaster it gave. at the same time as the government has this desire for privatization, in which strategic sectors and companies have been ruined for the country, the government has reduced the state to the maximum and the effects of disinvestment on health and on the court of staff are already making itself feel, Prime Minister. And how! There are very long waiting lines in the emergencies, people dying in the emergencies of this country, Prime Minister! You don't think the government has come too far? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u3	What got too far was your demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u4	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u5	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the Government approved yesterday, in resolution, the schedule of charges which will guide the process of reprivatization of TAP. It will, of course, be published, could not be otherwise, and will be scrutinized by any interested parties in the process and by everyone, from a political, economic and financial point of view. Even so, the Government does not approve these matters to keep them reserved; on the contrary, it is for them to be useful in the process to be developed. And the honourable Member, of course, will know the bill of charges when it is published and usually takes little time for the resolution to be published. In any case — and I believe that yesterday's approval has been made and that today's parliamentary debate is important to remove some fears which are unfounded. First of all, that the privatisation of TAP may be a passport for dismissal. Madam Member, the passport for dismissal is that there is no privatization. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u6	You've been saying this for 10 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u7	I have already said it here in this Parliament, and I am going to say it again: the TAP needs to be capitalised, the State is not in a position to secure and, if it did so in an irregular way, it could happen what has happened with Cyprus, which had to liquidate its flag company, its airline, precisely because of the invoice it would have to pay, in return for State aid, Brussels. I also said here in the last parliamentary debate that the alternative is a well-known and clear path in Italy when Alitalia was restructured. Mr Deputy, a new company was created, but a collective dismissal was made, a restructuring of the company that involved not only serious decrease of its human resources, but also of its activity, which we do not want to do in Portugal, because we want to keep the hub of Lisbon and, preferably, expand the activity of the TAP, which has conditions for the ability to do it, if it is private. If it is public, it will end up insolvent and unable to renew its fleet and be able to ensure its public service. So, Mrs. Member, our perspective is exactly the opposite of the one you put. Privatization of TAP is the only way to preserve employment, preserve the Lisbon hub, preserve company and power until it strengthens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u8	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u9	I shall conclude, Madam President. With regard to the issue of the dismissals which you have raised, and with regard to statements made yesterday by the Minister for Economic Affairs, I confess that I have not attended these statements, but I have had the opportunity to talk to him yet this morning and I believe that there is no doubt and that the Minister will not say anything contrary to this matter, what we have agreed to keep clearly in the book of charges is that the agreements of the company will have to be respected by future buyers. This means that any agreements which may exist, in particular as a trade union, will have to be respected by the operators who acquire TAP. And here the general rule of law prevails, of course, and therefore there is no restriction on the application of these agreements. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u10	You have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u11	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, I don't know what the conversation is with you today after you have slept or, perhaps, if you have thought about it, but yesterday I heard the Minister ensure that two and a half years from now you could fire the workers of the TAP, in general, and that, for those workers of the trade unions who do not sign the agreement with the government, they can be dismissed by now. So in retaliation, in the form of ‘who is not with us, indeed, planning itself’ and even questioning what is a constitutionally consecrated right, which is the right to strike! The Minister did not, in fact, know how serious the situation should be. But, Prime Minister, during the debate, I would like you to clarify this two-and-a-half-year question as well, because it is important to know what guarantees are given to workers in relation to their employment and why time. But, Prime Minister, as to saying that if TAP is public will be insolvent, and out there — the Prime Minister's conversation — I want to tell you that a public company will be what the government does to it. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u12	An incompetent government is clear that it will destroy TAP. A government that aims to privatize everything and something else can say something different, Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u13	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u14	I will finish, Madam President. It is important that the Portuguese have this conscience. I also note that the Prime Minister has completely fled to the issue that has been raised about health. But this is not to flee, Mr. Prime Minister, neither to play, nor to close your eyes, nor to bury your head in the sand.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u15	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u16	During the debate, please clarify what the government is doing in the area of health and the concrete effects of its policies, which clearly impact on the definition of what we are witnessing, in particular in the context of hospital emergencies. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u17	The PSD question follows. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, this week the Portuguese State placed on the market EUR 5, EUR 5 billion in Treasury bonds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u19	Great pride!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u20	Two billion in a 30-year-old maturity, which had only happened in 2006 long before the financial crisis, and three billion in the 10-year-old maturity. Interests that these securities will pay around 4, 1 % in the case of bonds at 30 years of age and 2, 8 % in maturity at 10 years of age. This debt issue, Prime Minister, therefore raises a number of questions. The first is to record the difference in the credibility of the Portuguese State, in view of the situation that this government and this majority inherited in 2011. Three and a half years later, Portugal no longer depends on external aid to finance itself, no longer pays interest at 10 % or more, and does operations with conditions equal or better than those it did before 2008. It seems little, but indeed, the country of January 2015 is different from the country of May 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u21	It's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u22	It does indeed show that Portugal today has the confidence of the markets, which had, in fact, a search substantially three times higher than the offer of this issue. The second question I put to you, Prime Minister, on this subject, is whether or not we can be on a path to recovery of the rating of the Portuguese Republic. We know how important this will be for confidence and even for investment capture, particularly external investment. And finally, Mr Prime Minister, one last issue still in this area. This issue of Treasury bonds reveals confidence for investors and markets in Portugal. It has confidence in the Portuguese government's budgetary strategy and confidence in the sustainability of Portuguese debt. In such a way that if interest is lower today is because the risk underlying investor confidence is also lower. This is the law of the market. It is true that many in Portugal — and not only in Portugal, some institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund, and even the European Commission, the troika or, fortunately for the Portuguese, the formertroika — have raised some doubts about the budgetary trajectory of our country, the doubts which, by the way, markets, the voracious markets do not follow. The question I put to you, Prime Minister, is how can we value the international confidence that Portugal enjoys today. in the background, whether or not the financial markets accompany some reservations that some fear to have, in view of our trajectory. In fact, Mr Prime Minister, it is also important to ask the Government now, but above all to ask those who for so long have announced that the low interest that Portugal was able to reach in the markets was not due to the work of the Portuguese Government, the Portuguese economy, the Portuguese public finances, but the decisions of the European Central Bank and Mr Draghi, it is important to ask them again why today we have transactions with these interest rates and, for example, Greece, which is the target of the same measures as the European Central Bank, has interest rates three, four times higher than those we have paid on the market. I know that next, the Socialist Party will speak and probably Mr Ferro Rodrigues or other leaders and Members of the Socialist Party, for example Mr João Galamba, will have a new explanation. There has to be a new explanation for this behavior. Thus far this was, so we will look forward to the new explanation that the opposition parties, particularly the Socialist Party, will have on this subject. Anyway, expectations are open. Perhaps, we will still hear that it was also the Constitutional Court that contributed to lowering the interest we are paying for Portuguese debt today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u23	Another issue, Prime Minister, which concerns the economy, economic growth and job creation in Portugal, is Portugal 2020. But before you question it about this Community Support Framework, it is also important to tell you, Prime Minister, that, since you are talking about employment and job creation, today this debate will be different in terms of unemployment. It is that, for 20 months, opposition parties, including the Socialist Party, have never wanted to talk about unemployment statistics. And they had many opportunities to do so, they had at least 20 opportunities to be able to welcome the fall in the unemployment rate. But they never wanted to. I almost bet you will be asked today about the unemployment rate. Under the circumstances of having had a slight rise in the unemployment rate...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u24	Light? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u25	...and therefore this awakens, today, the opposition parties and they want to talk about the unemployment rate. But speaking of the unemployment rate, Mr Prime Minister, not to point out that the results of unemployment, although high — and we have always said we were concerned about the high unemployment rate — are fortunately still below the various projections on the unemployment rate. No, that's not what the opposition will say. Nor will it say that, despite this slight rise, the unemployment rate in Portugal continues to fall in terms of counterparts. No, that's not what the opposition will say. What the opposition is going to say is that the unemployment rate has risen — and indeed has risen slightly. We, Prime Minister, continue where we have always been: concerned about the high unemployment rate we have in Portugal, but, above all, focused on the competitiveness factors of our economy, which can effectively contribute to the continued decline of this rate. That is why I told you that this also has a lot to do with investment capacity in our economy and Portugal 2020. at a time when we already know some decisions, when the financial institution for development is already installed, when some decisions were taken, including the approval of operational programmes and the appointment of management bodies, he asked you, Prime Minister, to make a point of view on this matter and on the prospect of implementing this Community Support Framework, especially compared with what was the beginning of the implementation of the previous framework which, as we know, delayed much what was the investments at that time. One last question, Prime Minister, which concerns us and wants to put to you, concerns the unilateral decision of the United States of America on the Lajes Base. We said this week in Parliament — and we repeat it and reiterate it now — that this is not an issue that must divide political agents and social agents in Portugal. It is, moreover, a matter on which we must all be together and all are committed. For what? In order to avoid the social and economic consequences of this decision, Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that he will meet the permanent bilateral committee with the United States of America next February. I therefore ask you how we can in fact contribute to preventing or diminishing these effects and those social and economic impacts. One last note, Prime Minister, on TAP, to not fail to reinforce what Mr Prime Minister has just said. Yesterday, the book of charges was approved and, as it could only be, the book of charges does not discriminate against workers. It is only natural that this should be the case in a document of this legal scale. Now, something different, Mr Prime Minister, is that it is enshrined that competitors in this privatisation process may have an obligation to comply with existing business agreements. It is, moreover, a sign that we value what social consultation is within a large company.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u26	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u27	That must be very clear. That is the obligation which, I believe, is contained in this book of charges. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u29	Mr President, Mr President, first of all, on the issue which you raised about the issue of debt issued this week at 10 and 30 years ago, I must say that we have already started emissions at 10 years ago. Indeed, the preparation of our return to market was still carried out during the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and still during the year 2013 — not 2014, but 2013 — at which time very successful long-term emissions were made, which showed that Portugal would be in a position to progressively gain market access and could therefore conclude its Economic and Financial Assistance Programme without needing more crutches. What happened this week was a 30-year issue, i.e. an issue whose maturity is beyond the last reimbursement of all the loans that the troika institutions have made to Portugal. This means that it is a maturity that already occurs outside the period of reimbursements that we will have to make for the loans we have contracted under the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme. And this is the most important value of the trust that is reflected in the way this issue resulted, which, essentially, had external and diversified search. If we see that Portugal has not yet invested grade in its debt and that therefore there is a very relevant set of investors who, for this reason, do not yet have the possibility to appear in these auctions, this means that there is indeed beginning to be a gap between what is the recognition of the market regarding our public debt trajectory and the credibility of budgetary policy and what is reflected in rating agencies. But, as you know, and this has been mentioned a number of times here in Parliament, we do not have to be very upset about the issues relating to the decisions of the rating agencies. My confidence is that, with this breakthrough, there will naturally be a correction, more day less by day, from the rating agencies. The essential thing for both investors and rating agencies is that this trajectory be maintained, because that is why it deals with trust associated with a 30-year issue. This means that there is the conviction that we will be positioned so that we can meet our goals and not declare that we are not in a position to do so. Anyone who declares that he is not in a position to comply or that he does not intend to comply never arouses the trust of investors. That is why we have always said that we can do all the debates on the question of Portuguese public debt, but that the Government does not send the Portuguese or investors any idea other than their absolute confidence in how Portugal will maintain a downward trajectory of its debt and will be able to honour its commitments. This is the first guarantee to be able to have funding, to be able to honour these commitments. And as you said, and very well, when other countries, because we can compare, they question, either because of political stability or for any other reason, the fulfilment of their obligations, they do not need to wait by rating agencies, they are soon the investors to penalise their debt. And there is no doubt: Greece, in particular, has been with interest rates already very close to 6 % for a very short time, and the fact is that it has reached more than 10 % over the last few weeks. This means, therefore, that how we view the exercise of budgetary responsibility is essential. He also asked the honourable Member for unemployment statistics. I want to reaffirm here my concern about the values that have been observed — results known in the last two months — on unemployment statistics. There was an increase in the value of the index and this is obviously of concern to the Government. It does not mean that during a recovery process there can be no such phenomena. From a medium and long-term point of view, what is relevant to the decision of the Government and the authorities is always the trend. I'm not sure this is a trend reversal, but we need to be careful, because we don't get anything to realize that we don't have the problems. It is a problem to increase unemployment. We have been able, over two years, to have a continuing decline in unemployment, and this is due to, we have no doubt, not only to the structural reforms that we have already carried out, particularly in the field of work, but also to the success of active employment policies, both things —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u30	And emigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u31	... and we have sought to respond in order to further take active employment policies and strengthen our conviction that in social dialogue we will also be able to deepen some of the reforms that may bring more confidence and more investment to Portugal. And one of them is precisely reflected in the financing conditions of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is one of the very positive consequences of having also achieved more favourable interest rates for public debt. It is that, after that, it ends up being appropriated in a facility for the economy as a whole. And today — it has also been released recently by Banco de Portugal — we have achieved values that we have not known in the medium and long-term interest rates for small and medium-sized enterprises. And this is also one of the conditions for us to have private investment, increased activity and potential product and more employment. We will therefore continue to do everything we can to ensure that there is no reversal of the trend here, but on the contrary, so that the trend, in spite of these overlaps, can remain, in order to have a progressively downward unemployment, without failing to respond to very specific problems, as is the case with long-term unemployment, for which the Government, still this week, has taken measures. Of course, Portugal 2020 and its timely implementation will also strengthen the financing conditions for the economy. And, as we know, Portugal 2020 will lead almost half of its resources to the competitiveness of the economy. I have recently been exchanging impressions with Minister Poiares Maduro, who has confirmed to me that in his estimate we will have to, during this year, between the implementation of the QREN of the past cycle and Portugal 2020, with the new competitions that are being launched and will continue to be launched on a calendar that will be known in February, to transfer to the real economy of some EUR 4 billion over the year 2015. And we obviously hope that this can be used in a rational way, so that it represents not only a monetary injection into the economy but a productive investment that brings jobs and sustainable investment. He also raised two questions, one on the Lajes Base and the other on the TAP. On the Lajes Base, the Government has made it clear over several years that it does not appreciate how the United States of America has dealt with this issue—and let us know to the American Government. We understand that the American Government needs to reformulate its presence in military terms outside its territory and that therefore several countries which have American bases under bilateral agreements have to have restructuring. But we also realize, and we say to the United States of America, that the Lajes Base has represented something very important in the agreement between the two countries, not only in military terms, but also in political terms and that, within this relationship with the United States, the financial and economic impact this measure brings, either to the Third Island or to the Azores archipelago, has a very negative weight to which the United States of America cannot fail to bear. Therefore, we will not leave the decision now confirmed at the bilateral meeting to raise this issue and, if necessary, to initiate a revision of the technical agreement at the heart of that agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u32	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u33	I cannot but say that I have received confirmation from the American authorities of the United States' openness to find answers that can mitigate this effect with Portugal. But, of course, until today what we have had was a lot of talk and little action and we will need to have more practical consequences of this availability in the United States of America. Mr President, I would just like to make it clear that, following my last visit as Prime Minister for the Azores, it was understood with the Regional Government that we would constitute a committee on the one hand to find measures that, on the Portuguese side, between central administration and regional administration, could in some way mitigate this impact and find ways to revitalize, from an economic point of view, the Third Island in what it has important for the regional economy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u34	The next question is PS. Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, the measures of a high degree of recession, such as the closure of enterprises, the increase in unemployment and the impoverishment of families, have not only aggravated the constraints that have prevented the planned targets from being met, with particular evidence of weak economic growth, as they have determined the worsening of the living conditions of the population, either by reducing incomes or by the deterioration and intensification of public services in general, so the enormous sacrifices imposed in a special way on people who depend on wages and pensions, have not brought any improvements to incomes and working conditions and entry into the labour market. The maintenance of policies that have been adopted, which are planned for the next years, results in greater inequality in the distribution of income, a particularly serious situation in which Portugal is already one of the most unequal countries in the European Union. These statements, which respond in a way to that more or less beatific analysis of Mr. Luís Montenegro, are not mine, are not of the PS, are not of its Paramentary Group, are not of any parliamentary group on the left ; they are conclusions of the recent opinion of the Economic and Social Council on the 2013 General Account, which also speaks of 2014, and against which the Government has voted. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This opinion and these conclusions were voted in favour of the CIP ( Confederation of Portuguese Industry ), the CAP ( Farmers of Portugal ), the CCP ( Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal ), the Portuguese Confederation of Tourism, the UGT ( General Workers' Union ), the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the IPSS and universities. They represent a broad national consensus. Only Mr. Prime Minister and his Government are out of this consensus. They are institutionally isolated, Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u36	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u37	Madam President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, I don't know if your intention was to have me comment on your speech! Is that what you're talking about? It's because I didn't understand the question. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, do not hurt me, I thought I was going to ask myself a question, but the honourable Member was silent when he described a set of circumstances and would certainly expect me to comment. I take advantage of the fact that you have spoken, and that I have also spoken in this debate, to say the following: the Government has never had any concern about doing what it should do if it displeases anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u38	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u39	The Government has never been concerned about pleasing you, Mr. The government has always been concerned about doing what was necessary. This is known in the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] He said: « But look at this as it costs you a negative opinion of the Economic and Social Council. Every year the Economic and Social Council gave negative opinions either to the State budget or to the General State Account. Every year, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u40	So that's not important!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u41	however, this never prevented the results, which were objective of interventions, from being achieved. contrary to what you have mentioned, our objectives have been achieved—and the country knows. That is why the Assistance Programme has ended, so we did not request a new programme... [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] Do you want to hear my speech or do you want me to hear a little more of your speech? I hear you. I also like to hear! The objectives were therefore achieved, contrary to what you cited in that opinion. And it is because these objectives have been achieved that the Government does not care to keep itself, as Mr President says, 'insulated' in these opinions and reports, defending the position of the country. I am very interested in knowing what judgment the country will make of this work. We very much like to hear the views of the partners, political parties, but we do not rule neither for the partners nor for the political parties; we rule for the Portuguese. It was they who elected us, and it is to them that we will be accountable, Mr. Deputies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u42	There's not much left!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u43	Moreover, the Socialist Party should have some memory about this, because it has already been associated with a government that has effects on the nature of those described in the opinion it has just mentioned and that it does not, however, ceases to force the Government to make its way. I am referring to a government which lasted from 1983 to 1985 and which had exactly that kind of opinion, report and conclusion on the part of the social partners mentioned here. Sir, don't worry: I read the opinions and I hear the opinions of everyone, but I never, in my life, stopped doing what I thought was important to my country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u44	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u45	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is therefore concluded that not only does the government assume that it is institutionally isolated, as you like, which is a little more strange. In fact, it gives the feeling that these people represented by this huge set of institutions, ranging from patronage to workers, to universities, to IPSS, do not represent the country! We also know that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u46	This is not a corporate regime, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u47	Mr Prime Minister, the European Commission accepted three days ago the possibility that certain types of public investment could be discounted in the assessment of the budget deficit of the euro countries for the purposes of the Stability and Growth Pact. This is still insufficient to address the problems of economic growth affecting the countries of the European Union, but it is a first step which has been possible thanks to the persistence of the Italian Presidency of the European Union and the new opening of the European Commission of Jean-Claude Juncker. All the euro countries — and this is important — can benefit from a smoothing of the timetables set for budgetary adjustment if structural reforms to enhance economic growth are carried out. Mr Prime Minister and his Government are also isolated from this new European dynamic. Why? in fact, Mr. Prime Minister said on 6 December: "But the investment expenditure is not to be paid? Oh, my God! If we're going to requalify schools, build roads, invest in infrastructure, don't we intend to pay for the investment we're going to make? Oh, my God! It's just that if it's not to pay, it doesn't count for the deficit. But if it is to pay, you must count." That is what is called a disastrous statement, Prime Minister. This Government does not miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity in Europe, Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u48	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u49	Madam President, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, the government does not like to be isolated, but does not care if it has to be isolated to defend the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But there is one thing that I would like to reaffirm to the honourable Member — in fact, I have just said this in one side and I would like to reiterate it — such a broad and representative consensus, which the honourable Member mentioned here, is not on the basis of a corporate state. Portugal is not governed by a corporate state or by corporations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u50	So, honourable Member, yes, the people are sovereign and it is the decision of the people who guide this government rather than that of corporations. Secondly, I believe that the honourable Member has tried something here which, yes, is disastrous, because he intends to launch a mistification. The leader of his party has long been saying that we needed to change policy in Europe and that the new European Commission had brought, through the statement of its President, an important announcement: public investment would be raised for the purposes of excessive deficit procedure. However, this week the European Commission has just confirmed — among the flexibility conditions it sees in the rules that exist, and not in new rules — that precisely the countries in the process of excessive deficit have no flexibility in terms of such clauses — have that they already had, Mr President — and that Portugal has benefited, both the relevant investment clause and the structural reform clause. That is why, Mr President, we have had more time to get out of the excessive deficit procedure. There's nothing new about that. What is new — and I should therefore demystify your statement, Mr President — is that countries which are not in the process of excessive deficit, i.e. those who are in the 'preventive arm' of the Stability and Growth Pact, so that they have less than 3 % deficit, may deviate from their medium-term objective because of investment or relevant structural reform which they have carried out — in fact, consideration is more reform, very relevant reform itself — in which case they will have, during the period of the stability or convergence programme, depending on whether it is the euro or outside the euro area, to correct and compensate for this deviation. This means, Mr President, that it does not apply to Portugal, unless you notice the aim that the Government has defended — but you do not! — that is to leave the excessive deficit procedure and, therefore, less than 3 % deficit is achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u51	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u52	Now, we know that if this were to depend on the will of the Socialist Party, and on the policies which he refuses to believe they hurt the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u53	And they do!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u54	... Portugal would never be able to benefit from the flexibility of the rules, which exists today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u55	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u56	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in addition to continuing to think that your Government must be « proudly alone », it does not read well what the Commission says, because indeed the countries that have not yet reached the 3% deficit also have the opportunity to benefit from these new decisions of the European Commission. I therefore advise you to read the European Commission's decision better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u57	I've read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u58	Mr Prime Minister, on 6 January last, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Portugal said that it would be detrimental to our bilateral relations that Portugal did not have a positive result in this wide and complex process, referring to a possible negative outcome on the use of the Lajes Base, in the Azores, by the United States. Worse, for now, it would be hard to admit...! The PS has already deplored the terms of the reaction of the Portuguese Government which, being exposed to a unilateral decision and to a disturbing treatment, did not at the time know to affirm the national interest and the legitimate expectations of the Portuguese residents of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, particularly on the Third Island. Mr. Prime Minister today sought to amend his hand. Our solidarity with the Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, our willingness to cooperate in an American change of attitude and the need of the Prime Minister and the Government to fulfil the commitments they have made on the Third Island are essential. But, Prime Minister, the problem is that you and your government are also on the way to Atlantic isolation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u59	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u60	Mr President, I have already mentioned the issue of the Lajes Base in terms that, I believe, were very clear and was not "amending the hand" of anything, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, it was to reaffirm what he had already said on many other occasions. I want to say, however, that I find it regrettable that, in this matter of political union in Portugal, the Socialist Party is using it as a party political weapon. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, I also want to say that the government, in fulfilling its duties, in great cooperation with the Azores Government — which is, in fact, socialist! — from the outset, this whole situation has been monitored. And, Mr President, it is with the Regional Azores Government that we are just working to overcome some of the negative impacts of these decisions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u61	You have the floor, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is no kind of escape from the national consensus on this issue. I myself said that we were always available to help in terms of pressure on the Americans and in compliance with their agreements with the Regional Government, with which the PS also maintains daily contacts on the seriousness of this situation on the Third Island. Mr Prime Minister, the consequences of blind austerity policies have appeared tragically in health services, particularly in emergencies. Instead of, at a time that is always of great pressure, reorganizing the work and the remuneration of doctors and nurses in decent terms, the government preferred to cut the scales, reduce salaries and limit the value to be paid for overtime. The easy solution was to recruit doctors, without connection to hospitals, from companies formed to provide this skilled workforce. One cannot fail to hold the government responsible for stopping the establishment of family health and continuing care units. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] in the thematic debate that the PS here launched last week on the situation of hospital emergencies, the Minister of Health, referring to the three concrete proposals that the PS presented, said he would comment on them. He didn't! And now— happily! — it resolves according to the first, which is the possibility of hiring doctors by hospital services. Better late than never! however, this also proves that the Prime Minister and the Government are socially isolated from reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u63	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u64	Mr President, I believe that, when talking about the consequences of austerity policy, you were talking about the possibility that we had to pay the debts that you left in the national health system! Is that what you're talking about? [[PS protests.]] I thought that was the consequence that the honourable Member referred to. It is because the national health system in 2011, that is, when we started our way into the government, had about 3, 5 billion liabilities, debts, and there were several suppliers who had threatened even to cut the supply to the National Health Service. Mr President, we were not only able to pay a substantial part of this liability and of those debts, such as realising the capitalisation of hospitals, which were not capitalised—there was social capital that had not been realized in these hospitals. In turn, we were also able to carry out, together with health professionals, a policy that allowed, despite the difficulties and restrictions, of course — it is known that there were restrictions in Portugal in these three years, but these restrictions did not put the quality, nor the volume of services provided, and I believe that the Minister of Health has made it very clear — to prepare and plan, according to the instruments that are within our reach, all we could have done to prevent negative consequences at the end of the year. That, unfortunately, did not happen all along, as we would like. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u65	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, in recent days, the country has been surprised with wrong and wrong measures of the Public Administration and Government : the persecution and political irresponsibility in the Ministry of Justice, with strange complaints, resignations and nominations outside the law ; the positive discrimination of technical salaries only in the Ministry of Finance ; the contradiction between the Minister of Social Security’s assertion and the proclamations of the PSD’s spokesman on the objectives of the so-called ‘requalification process’, which has been well nude with the coming — already late! — to the Assembly of the Minister for Social Security ; the statement by another Vice-President of the PSD on the so-called 'decentralisation of competences for the authorities' ; and I quote that 'the lack of coordination and political leadership' ; and the accusation to the Minister for Regional Development, on the part of the same Vice-President of the PSD, to have launched the process and then to have disappeared, I see that yesterday it has reappeared and today it is with us, which gives us great pleasure. On the other hand, what about the ping-pong between your Deputy Prime Minister and your party's spokesperson on the authorship of changes to the IRS? And what about the TAP privatisation manual, which cannot contain a rule that is manifestly illegal and that turns a job guarantee into a threat to trade union freedom? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is this the way you celebrate the fight against unity, which was the 40-year-old motto of the great Socialist Party? Oh, my God! The politically serious problem that arises is that Mr. Prime Minister is isolated from the Public Administration and is beginning to feel signs that his government's mess can lead not only to isolation from the Public Administration but also to the political forces that support it. The political situation, Prime Minister, is getting worse every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u67	You have the floor, Prime Minister. There's still little time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u68	Mr President, Mr Ferro Rodrigues wanted our debate on isolation for the media. I get it, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u69	I'm glad you got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u70	I pay attention to your interventions and therefore help you to do so. The government, I'm telling you again, does not mind being isolated if that is what you are serving the country with. That is the essential element. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u71	I know that many other politicians are very concerned, very anxious, when they are very isolated. But, Mr President, it is often necessary to have the courage not to be afraid of being isolated to get where you need to get to, and that, fortunately, I am not missing or will not be missing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in Public Administration, we are doing, I think, what is needed. Whenever you want, we will discuss this with the appropriate time and in a transversal and thorough manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u72	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u73	In any case, what we are doing in the Public Administration, and it is known, is implementing the single pay table with the single supplement table, which should have entered into force immediately at the beginning of the year and which has suffered a little delay, but it is a small delay. We will conclude this year of 2015 that important review in the framework of the Public Administration and I assure you that the elections will not be an impediment to this reform as well. It is because, Mr President, we do not want the Socialist Party to be too isolated in its arguments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u74	The next question is CDS-PP. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u75	Madam President, Prime Minister, we already knew that the Socialist Party does not make proposals, but today we are aware that it does not ask questions in the 15-year debates,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u77	The CDS already asks difficult questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u78	... which does not cease to be extraordinary but also revealing some isolation in relation to what it is necessary for the Portuguese to understand, which is what the PS comes to. Mr. Prime Minister, this is the first 15-year debate of 2015 and the last year of this legislature, we believe it is necessary, to understand the present and to design what is most interested in Portuguese, that is the future, to perceive the starting point and, as much as it costs some, to perceive the past, to perceive, if you want, Portugal of 2011. I speak of a state without money to pay essential functions of the State, such as wages and pensions ; without external credibility; under a difficult and unable rescue to finance itself independently on the markets. Someone would say, to follow the PS motto, « an isolated country » — isolated from its creditors, isolated from the point of view of what their ability as a country to meet the needs. Mr Prime Minister, at the time, and despite the rescue, of an injection of money from our partners, Portugal was able, such was this isolation, to finance itself at three months, at six months, because trust and credibility were very low. This was the starting point. I am referring now to the present Prime Minister, that is Portugal of 2015. It was well expressed this week that Portugal — and has already been said here — issued a debt of around EUR 2000 million to 30 years at an interest rate similar to 2006. That is, well before the sovereign debt crises and even the Lehman Brothers issue, a certain socialist narrative thinks it is the cause of all evils. Mr. Prime Minister, for us, there is a whole difference in the ability to finance us at three months, because nobody trusts us, or we finance us at 30 years, because people trust us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u80	Trust is 10 times more. Comparing the work that left us in 2011 and the year in which we are 2015 we found that there is now a trust 10 times greater than that which was the trust of then. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The fact that we heard Mr. João Soares of the Socialist Party on Wednesday is still curious to say the following: « Well, this of the markets, this of the financing is of no interest to anything. It does not matter for anything because it has no impact on the lives of Portuguese.” Mr Prime Minister, this statement allows us to make a reflection and even draw a conclusion. in this sense, my question is whether Mr. Prime Minister shares or does not want the reflection or the conclusion that I am putting forward. When it is said that « this of the markets does not matter at all», it allows us to think that — and I do not know whether or not the Prime Minister agrees with me — that Portugal, like all countries, needs to finance itself in the markets, the confidence revealed in this financing confirms that Portugal can finance lower interest rates. And paying lower interest, is it true or not, Prime Minister, that I have less debt? And by hiring less debt for the future, is it true that you have less commitments to pay? And having fewer commitments to pay, is it true that it is possible to take concrete measures that affect the lives of Portuguese immediately and positively? I am talking, for example, and it also happened this week, about the publication of the retention tables at the source of the IRS, which allow in the concrete life of the Portuguese, that 120,000 families, having children or grandparents in charge, are exempt from the payment of the IRS. You'll get that right away. Another example is that about 1, 8 million taxpayers will have a more favourable tax situation immediately. No 1. the step, a mother with two children and an income of 800 € will have a tax reduction of more than 25 %. No 2. the step, a couple with two children and with an income of 1200 € will have a tax reduction in order of 12 %. This will be noticed immediately, and it is good for the Portuguese also to perceive, immediately, who has been in favour of this measure, who has made this measure of the family quotient and who, alone and despite the abstention from the left to the left, voted against. It was the Socialist Party who voted against it! They're isolated from reality and they're isolated from the family! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, this reflection leads us to a conclusion: the PS did not realize anything about what happened in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u81	And the question to Mr. Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u82	The PS did not realize that devaluing budgetary rigour is a way in which there is less economic growth...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u83	That's why debt is greater!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u84	... and that budgetary rigour is an essential condition for such growth. Mr Prime Minister, Portugal is beginning to have signs of economic growth. Although we have no problem with recognizing that, from the point of view of unemployment, the situation is still negative, the fact is that the overall trend of 21 months is decreasing, at a time when the trust of our creditors is increasing in relation to our country. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to believe that what the PS represents today in 2015 is the 2011 PS, and the Portuguese will certainly not want to return to the 2011 Country, the one that was in pre-bank, the one that needed the creditors to survive and the one who forced us to take the difficult measures we took in four years. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u85	Mr. Prime Minister, we will lose everything if we do not continue with responsibility and if we find, as Mr. Ferro Rodrigues now said, that having excessive deficit or not is indifferent and that what is needed is to invest now and then pay if there is money. We don't think that's the life the Portuguese want. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u86	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u87	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, it is known that in 2011 we had, to use an expression by Mr Ferro Rodrigues, the isolated country of its potential financiers. And that's why we had to ask for official funding. An important part of what has led us to this problem has a structural dimension. That means that for many years there have been no reforms that would allow Portugal to be within the European Union area, the euro area, taking advantage of more affordable financing conditions, at lower and more abundant costs without jeopardising the sustainability of public accounts. For some years there was even one who defended, in the economic area, that never a problem of payment crisis could affect the country within the euro. Actually, all of this could happen. The country needed to make these reforms and had to speed them up in three years, protected, isolated from external markets, guaranteed by its official creditors. But it also had to correct the serious imbalances that were accentuated by discretionary policies, that is to say they were taken freely by the governments that preceded us. You do well to remember this only because today, as you say and very well, what the Socialist Party is proposing is to make an approach in everything similar to that which led to the problem, and that is why the country should be concerned. But we will not stop confronting this only when the election campaign comes, of course, but at all times when we face the economic and political model that we follow. Today, we have the assurance that we have corrected a significant part of the imbalances. This is very positive, because it allows companies to finance themselves, it allows investment to bring jobs, it allows the State to also finance itself, so that public policies in the social field can be financed, and that the restrictions on health, education, social security — we passed through these restrictions, because there was no money — are overdue. As you said, and very well, as we manage to generate primary and post-budgetary surpluses, we will be able to reduce debt service by reducing its stock and thus freeing up the future of these responsibilities. Well, that takes your time. And many politicians, sometimes, don't like to wait. They don't care about, in half a dozen decisions, not to be isolated and they can please, increase wages, lower taxes, because that's very fast. But when, after, the bill appears, what is it to know how much we will have to pay for these discretionary decisions and know that it may take five years, ten years, to ask a certain party of the opposition: "So long? So let's not go there! We have to start taking a different path, which is to increase expenditure again, responsibilities, because that is how we can grow. Do not keep on seeking. ” When we grow again with external debt and public debt our funding ends at the next issue and the price that the whole country would have to pay for would be incalculable. I believe, therefore, that your alerts are well founded and that is why the Government has not deviated from this position. The honourable Member reminded us that today we have managed to give some meaning to the sacrifices we have made and to withdraw some positive effect from there, even for the Portuguese. Whether in the public service, whether in pensioners, or in other social groups that were most affected by the crisis, 20015 will be a year of gradual recovery, but it is gradual, and that is why we say that it is not possible to restore levels at once. The Socialist Party, for example, is always in a hurry to restore everything, in the days when it believes more firmly that it can be government again, puts a little bit of brake and becomes a little more evasive and abstract saying that « it is necessary to see, then it will be, of course, that it is necessary to recover, but depending on the circumstances we will see...». But when he gets excited about the conversation he accuses us of not doing the full recovery of the income, letting him guess if he would. We know that if this were to happen, perhaps, the price to be paid for all who would supposedly benefit from this recovery would amount to much more damage than what was returned to them. on the issue of the IRS, we made a very clear bet that you know well: we combine important fiscal policies that allow us to kill several rabbits in a single box. [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know the rabbits have a suggestive allusion for the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, I am very generous, giving reasons for good will to the honourable Members too. Ladies and gentlemen, this Friday. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in fact, we actually managed to serve these objectives together, we managed to penalize behaviors that are environmentally unsustainable and, at the same time, promote birth and defend families that have the most ascendant and descendants in their place. It was crucial for this government, and we managed to do it because we combined the two policies. contrary to what has happened, as you know, with IRC, when we decide that we should start tax relief by IRC to facilitate the life of those who create jobs and create wealth, and therefore create budgetary margin for the power to make, here we have two policies that allow us to serve two objectives, at least, that are important. Mr President, I am very pleased to know that there was total harmony within the Government so that we could serve these objectives and not, Mr Ferro Rodrigues, there is no discussion within the majority on these matters. I wanted to conclude by saying the following: in 2015 we will have the possibility of once again registering an external surplus on the balance of trade and services. We have managed to do something that in democracy has never been possible and we are very pleased with it, because democracies do not exist to make deficits, there are also to be able to compensate the people of their sacrifices for progress and development. They really have to benefit from this in a sustained way. This external balance, today, is crucial to us, but we also need to maintain internal balance. And as we are able to do so, I believe that the institutions that can observe this trajectory, for the greater deprivation syndrome that they can show, as Mr Luís Montenegro suggested recently, concerning the fact that we no longer ask them so many times what we should do, even those institutions agree that we are correcting these imbalances and that this, of course, gives us much greater optimism in relation to the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u88	To put the next question, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u89	Mr President, Prime Minister, recent statistics on unemployment have shed some light on the reality of what is happening in employment and unemployment. And we could say that there were signs of this trend as permanently proclaimed, as in the last fortnight debate. But we already knew that. It is clear that statistics, since they are tortured and twisted, always say what they are intended to say, but the problem is in the near future, Prime Minister. The announcements of dismissal in services in the financial sector, the dismissals announced in the Lajes Base, the dismissals already announced in the TAP, because that is the objective of the privatisation of TAP, in many companies in the country that are rather disturbing signs and trends that will be accentuated. But, Prime Minister, worse than that, by means of the so-called requalification, not only for social security workers, but it seems that in all ministries, it is the government itself who wants to proceed with dismissal. The government's strange way to fight unemployment. Explain there this insanitable contradiction, Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u90	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u91	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I have recently had the opportunity to say that when we look at unemployment, as well as any other important macroeconomic variable, we must always address its tendency and not to discrete values, but also look at discrete values, so we are concerned about what has happened to unemployment. But unlike many people, when the numbers that the statistics reveal surprise them for any reason... I don't know, the honourable Member is suggesting that the National Institute of Statistics distorts the statistics? [[No, no, the IEFP was doing that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u92	I'm sorry, the INE...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u93	INE has rejected the IEFP!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u94	Mr Deputy, the INE, for 20 months, showed a statistic that would degrade unemployment. You weren't suggesting that the INE distort the data, were you? It is, from previous debates, that I felt that when the INE disclosed its statistics and showed a trajectory of unemployment decline, these values were contested, so the statistics could not be well. For you, as there has now been a worsening of unemployment in INE statistics, this problem no longer arises, the statistics must be correct, it must not be distorted. Perhaps it is still a bit distorted, because it should increase even more, but if unemployment increases more it will be less distorted. Mr President, this is not how we look at the situation seriously. Unemployment, for many, many months, has shown a tendency to deteriorate, in two months it has shown aggravation, but we are paying attention to this matter, and we are not only concerned about how we are acting. He said: 'Well, but they're saying goodbye with requalification'. Mr. Deputies, that is a mistification. [[PCP laughter.]] Requalification is not dismissal. [[Oh, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u95	It's not in the law and it's not in practice. So, Mr President, I just want to say that your question is wrong because it is based on a misconception: the requalification process is not a dismissal process. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u96	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u97	Madam President, Prime Minister, we have been here for many years and we know very well how these things happen. With regard to this question of requalification, the possibility of dismissal immediately began by cutting wages, blackmailing workers who are left with that regime. You will say, Mr. Prime Minister, that it is not an announced dismissal, it is a requalification, but I say - it is an advance notice of dismissal, which you intend, in terms of the Public Administration. Regarding the manipulation of INE data, it was the IEFP that conducted things in statistical terms and distorted and manipulated them. I would like to ask you a second question, which is of great importance to you, too, for sure, a concrete problem of great concern about the fishing of sardines. However, allow me to say that before, and in the face of the tragic disaster that happened this week with one more boat, I begin by presenting to the families my condolences and the solidarity of the CFP. These disasters that are happening in fear may be stopped, but this requires, as the CFP has repeatedly underlined, to create a single safety net that can be truly effective, such as creating conditions for fishing incomes to be sufficient and that fishermen do not need to go to sea when there are no security conditions to do so. It is necessary for the Government to take steps to reverse decisions taken on sardine fishing. It is not understood that the Spaniards can continue fishing and we do not. Or perhaps, Prime Minister, the fishermen are compensated with sufficient compensation. The boats and fishermen of the sardine cannot stay six months without work, from October 2014 to April 2015 as it is on the table. It is strange, Mr Prime Minister, that the European Commission, on 16 December, responded to the CFP saying : « Portugal and Spain have not yet contacted the Commission on the possibility of compensatory aid ». Why, Prime Minister? We are speaking of a community deeply plagued by injustice, the danger of their own lives, and the government has no word to say. On the contrary, it will allow penalties for sardine fishing, telling this community to engage in carapou fishing, knowing that this fishing community lives a lot from sardine fishing. You have no answer to this, Prime Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u98	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u99	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I understand that you want to make a distinction between the National Institute of Statistics and the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, but in any case, I would like to say to you, firstly, that it is known that the National Institute of Statistics presents a statistics on employment and unemployment and the Employment and Vocational Training Institute presents data on employment or unemployment registered at the centres. They are therefore different and do not reveal the same thing, Mr President. Obviously it is important to know, despite reporting different situations, whether they have a tendency that is contradictory or not, because they could have. He could quite strange the data that are presented by the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training in the face of a statistic that is revealed in the absolute opposite direction. But that was not the case, Mr President. The data presented by the IEFP throughout this period reflected the same trend as the data from the National Institute of Statistics. Mr. Member, why is the Employment Institute not worthy of trust? Don't your technicians deserve trust? Is that what you mean? Aren't the civil servants who make the registration reliable? Are those people there doing what governments command? Is that what you want to imply? Mr President, I would like to say that the Government does not interfere in this matter and recognizes the numbers presented by the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training. We recognize them when we are in government or when we are in opposition. That's right. They are official data, whether they come from IEFP, or they come from INE. It seems to us, Mr President, that making the distinction when the values are contrary to what we wish — or it seems to wish — that is when unemployment goes down, and exalts them when unemployment rises, it is quite disastrous. The honourable Member mentioned the problem of sardine fishing. Since it is not a matter which I have in depth, I should like to say as much as I know: there is a quota problem that has been reached in relation to the sardine and stocks that involve the suspension of the sardine fishing period must therefore be replenished.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u100	But the Spaniards catch her in our waters!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u101	Obviously, this is a question that causes disturbance to fishermen and to the market in general, but it cannot be otherwise. But, Mr President, if this quota has been reached, it seems very natural to me that the replacement of the sardine requires a temporary suspension of the activity. He asked whether the Government had done everything within its power to discuss this matter with the European Commission. Mr President, I do not know how to answer you at this time, but I would like to say that I do, of course. I could not inform myself of this detail before, so I cannot conclude in the answer that I am going to give you, but I should be surprised if it had not been so, because it is in the interest of Portugal and the country, and therefore also of the Government that this activity can be carried out, so if the activity was suspended, as it was, temporarily, this was due to a very practical objective and departed from a very pragmatic situation, which was the lack of recourse to be able to fish. I would also like to say to the honourable Member that I did not understand very well your comment on how to prevent such disasters. I did not understand what the honourable Member was talking about, whether it was about security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u102	Security!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u103	All right, but then he didn't suggest anything about it, I think, because he only referred to the question of sardine. I wanted to tell you that I was hoping that you would not come to suggest that the security problem at sea is also a matter of government responsibility and is also a fault for government policies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u104	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u105	Mr. Prime Minister, all of this shows that Mr. Prime Minister does not respond to anything concrete. I would like to stress here that there is no answer from the Prime Minister about the fishermen's problems here. [[PCP applause.]] There is also a third question that I would like to ask you, Prime Minister: in recent weeks, there have been many problems in the provision of health care, problems which, not new, have had developments that are unacceptable and worrying. The situation in hospital emergencies has been chaotic. People continue to die waiting for emergency care, with waiting times that go beyond, and much, all the safety limits of patients. Yes, Prime Minister, we all agree not to politically exploit the misfortune, but to shut down the drama is much worse, and that is why we put this problem here. [[PCP applause.]] We are not faced with a punctual situation, this is a situation that unfortunately begins to be recurrent, in most of the year, in many hospitals of the National Health Service. In a country where 2, 4 million people live below the poverty threshold, 20 % of which are children, people with great difficulty in paying medicines, with great food deficit, the policy of deresponsibility of the state inevitably leads to the increase of these dramas. Mr Prime Minister, action must be taken, the situation must be quickly reversed. in our opinion, there is a fundamental problem to solve: it is known that today, 70% of medical episodes should be resolved in primary health care, but there is an investment and at present there are hospitals that have 70% of medical episodes and 30% remain in health services. Now, we have to reverse this because, if not, these problems are going to increase more and more. Another problem is the chronic underfunding of the National Health Service. The financial garrot to which hospitals are subject is an impediment to solving a central problem that has to do with health professionals. We talk about doctors, we have to talk about nurses, we have to talk about specialized workers, operations that were fundamental, especially in urgency, and only in this field have gone out 2000 in recent years. That is a fundamental problem, Prime Minister. Let us make this principle enshrined in the Constitution, health, be a general and universal right, be a reality and be not compromised, because we are speaking of a precious good for the Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u106	To put the last question to this debate, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u107	Mr President, Prime Minister, public investment has created the largest Portuguese company, Portugal Telecom, a company with infrastructures that the country needs, with innovation, internationalisation and thousands of jobs. The privatisation process weakened the company, the end of the golden share allowed all abuses and now PT is in a difficult situation to be dismantled. This is a complex situation, but it happens, through the rounds of fate, that the State has once again the possibility of being a reference shareholder in the general assembly of PT shareholders, with the crisis in BES, with the creation of the New Bank. The administration of the New Bank is chosen by the Government and the Banco de Portugal, which means that we are again represented, together with the Social Security Capitalisation Fund, in the general meetings of shareholders, by a voice that is strong. Connecting the vote of the New Bank, whose administration is appointed by the State, with the vote of the Social Security Capitalisation Fund ( State ), to the small shareholders who are interested in stopping the sale of PT to Altice it is possible, in the general assembly of shareholders of Portugal Telecom, to stop this sale. This could have already happened in the last general assembly of shareholders, but the representatives of the State decided to stay with the great shareholders against the interests of the country, against the cautions requested, against the workers and against the small shareholders. CMVM has already come to call for caution and time, the Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating, workers demand respect for their jobs and small shareholders want to protect the company from being dismantled. next Thursday, there is a new general meeting of shareholders and it is possible, using the New Bank, social security and small shareholders, to have 30 % to stop selling Portugal Telecom to Altice. I ask you, Prime Minister: what indications will the government give the administrators who are in this general assembly representing the State? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u109	Mrs President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I understand your insistence on this issue and I am only sorry that you do not understand the position that the Government has already expressed on this matter. We are not owners of the New Bank. The State is not its shareholder and does not appoint its administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u110	Name!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u111	The administration of the General Deposit Board shall be appointed by resolution of the Council of Ministers. Public undertakings which do not have a general assembly are appointed by resolution of the Council of Ministers. The New Bank has an administration which is not appointed by the Government. Second, the New Bank was created by resolution of the Banco Espírito Santo. It was therefore set up by the Resolution Fund. Madam Member, the Resolution Fund does not give orders to the administration of the New Bank, on behalf of the State's interest, so that, in the management of the Bank's current interests, the administrators vote in one way or another. I want to tell you, moreover, that it does not do so in relation to the General Deposit Box, of which it owns. This Government has never given instructions to the General Deposit Box so that, in the field of its commercial activity, it will decide in some way or other. That's the way it is, Mrs. Deputy. That's what it means not to mix interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u112	That's what it means not to defend interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u113	The General Deposit Box has a letter of interest communicated by the Government from a strategic point of view, and should base its action on it. However, the government does not interfere with the current management of the Bank. Mrs. Member, this is our way of being. The honourable Member may disagree and may say: « What a pity, because I would like to have public banks, to call the administrators there and tell them that in relation to a business you must do in a way, in relation to another operation should do otherwise... ». It is the position of the Left Block and it is also the position of other parties. I think it was precisely this position, that way of being, that attitude, that philosophy that gave in what it gave in the case of Portugal Telecom. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u114	You must be kidding me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u115	contrary to what Mrs. Deputy thinks, it was precisely this philosophy that led to the current state of Portugal Telecom. Madam Member, as much as this costs you, the government will not interfere in a private business. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u116	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u117	Mr President, Prime Minister, the administration of the New Bank, such as the administration of the General Deposit Box, must obey the shareholder, who puts money. The one who placed money was the State and therefore the administration must obey the State, the public interest. True, we have a different way of being. Do you know the difference, Prime Minister? The difference is that we, in the Left Block, believe that the State has an obligation to defend the country and Mr. Prime Minister, when it has to choose between the strategic interest of the country or the interest of the great foreign capital shareholders, always choose the great shareholders. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to speak to you from another large Portuguese company, TAP. We already know how privatizations begin and we also begin to understand how they end up — see the case of PT. This privatisation of TAP is done on the basis of a bad excuse. Mr Prime Minister is here saying that unless TAP is privatized, TAP ends and all jobs are lost because the European Union does not allow us public capitalisation, an increase in public capital. Well, that's not true. It is not true, because the last time this was done in the TAP was 20 years ago and, as the 10 years have passed, the State can put money in the TAP, yes, if necessary. And that is not true, because there are other European countries that are capitalizing their public enterprises, because they need to do so. Therefore, it is appropriate to say to you: «Invent new lies». This one is not glued, Prime Minister. In addition, it should be remembered that the Government of Antonio Guterres wanted to sell TAP to Switzerland which then went to bankruptcy. If there is anything we know about this is that if TAP had been privatized at that time today there was no longer any job guarantee. Mr. Prime Minister, tell us the story from PT to Swissair, from BES to everything that has happened, that privatization, yes, is the best way to send down a public company and a strategic company. But, Prime Minister, the question I want to ask you is, then, there are some workers who have the job insured for a few years and others do not, as they agree, or not, have you? It's not in the book of charges, but will it be in the company agreement? Mr. Prime Minister, we are in a rule of law and a democratic country, there is no retaliation on workers who do not agree with the government. You better explain to us right here what you're thinking of doing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u118	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u119	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, no, the State is not the owner of the New Bank. The Resolution Fund is the owner of the New Bank and the Resolution Fund is the responsibility of the Portuguese financial system. It's not from the State, Mrs. Member, it's from the Portuguese financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u120	Who will appoint you, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u121	That's the truth, Mrs. Member. We will maintain our position on this matter and, contrary to what the honourable Member suggests, it is not to defend either this or that. It is precisely for the State to defend neither this nor that in private matters. We do not choose large foreign companies or small Portuguese companies. In private matters, the State should not interfere, should have no preference.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u122	Who doesn't charge?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u123	This is our position, Mrs. Deputy. As for your question about the TAP, the State has a good example, and also the honourable Member, of what happened in a case of the European Union, which was in Cyprus. I read it here. The honourable Member was the last to speak in the debate and, therefore, has this somewhat upset position that she has been left to the end and, therefore, has to be repeating the issues that have already been addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u124	But you can answer it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u125	The truth is that, Mrs Deputy, Cyprus has decided to close its airline for having to pay State aid for the capitalisation of the company. That's the way it is, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u126	How many years have they been given?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u127	I also said in a previous debate that in operations which are approved under the State aid scheme for the purposes of corporate capitalisation, the example that is available is that of the Alliance, which has strictly had collective dismissal and reduction of activity, Mrs Deputy, which is precisely what we do not want for the TAP. I am very calm and very serene with the option that the Government has taken on this matter. Moreover, it is not doing anything new, it had already done so in 2012 and, for contractual reasons, of contractual security, did not complete the process as it should. I hope that it can now be concluded, simply because that, I believe, is the best way to defend national interest in this matter. As far as retaliation is concerned, I do not know what the honourable Member is talking about. There's no retaliation of anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u128	These are the words of the Minister of Economics!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u129	You'll have a chance to see the order book. What the Council of Ministers discussed and included in the specification on this subject is that business agreements which have been established, in particular with trade unions, will have to be respected by those who are potential buyers of TAP. You know that whenever there are conventions, there are general rules of law that apply to these matters, so I don't know what the honourable Member suggests on discrimination. The Minister made a reference yesterday which was interpreted in this way and he himself asked me to make it very clear in this debate that there is no discrimination, Mrs Deputies. That has already been said by me at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u130	He's already taking the carpet away from the Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u131	We made sure that, whatever the buyer of TAP, it would not fail to respect the arrangements, the company agreements that are in force, of course, until the publication of the specification of charges
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u132	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u133	It couldn't be any other way. That is what the honourable Member can see. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, at the conclusion of the debate, and this is the first debate in 2015, I would like to address, through the President, all Members and all Members. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the last year of this Parliament will be very successful. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u134	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins, who still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the State appoints the administrators. Therefore, to say that it has nothing to do with what administrators later do in the general shareholders assembly is a « history of carokinha ». With regard to TAP, Mr. Prime Minister tells us about Cyprus, but he does not talk about Denmark and Sweden, for example, which make public investments in their public airline, and he does well to do so! On workers, I note that he has "taken the carpet" from Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State. I'm glad you disagreed, but we're waiting for the order book. Mr Prime Minister, the debate is over, wished us a good year, but I confess that I was expecting you to refer to two other matters that you did not talk about today. I know the excuses were the ingredient of the past time, but today I was waiting for excuses about what's going on in social security and about what's going on in health. in social security, is announced a collective dismissal that was 697 workers and then moved to 636 — six hours of hearing and no one was able to explain exactly why and how. Most wanted to hide the workers of social security, but the Left Block brought them to Parliament, and what we know is that the workers have functions, have been evaluated as superior technicians for their duties, and they are so necessary that the government is even trying to replace them, which proves that they have the same functions and that we need them. Therefore, this joke, which was against the social state and the State's obligations, required that Mr. Prime Minister come to say: "Let's go back. Minister Mota Soares doesn't know what he's doing and I apologize. » That was the only thing I should do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u136	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u137	Mr President, with the same tolerance of others, I wanted to say very briefly that I was also waiting for an apology on health. We had the Minister of Health here saying that there was no lack of doctors and that the problem was opposition. But, after all, they were missing and the Minister then signed an order to be hired medically. The problem is, you're too late. Perhaps this office will take effect for the year, but now it has left people "sustained" in emergencies. Now he hasn't responded to users' health. Now he didn't answer for people's lives. Mr Prime Minister — and with this in mind — I know that you have had the idea that you can make cuts and that everything will be fine. however, Mr. Prime Minister, as you can see in education, justice, social security, health, cannot be deceived all the time. What you're doing, Prime Minister, destroys the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u138	The 15-year debate is closed with the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Members for their presence. Members of the Government and I wish everyone a good job. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, I ask the services to activate the electronic system for you. Members register. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so, will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that it is considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework registers 205 Members present, to which 1 Member of the Greens, 3 PS and 1 PS Member who have not been able to register, making a total of 210 Members present. We therefore have a quorum for deliberation. We shall begin the voting, beginning with vote No 244 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of Joaquim José Louro Pereira ( PSD ). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Maria Paula Cardoso, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last December 31st, at 62 years of age, Joaquim José Louro Pereira died, a victim of severe and prolonged illness, leaving his wife and two children. Having been born on April 23, 1952, in the town of Amiais de Cima, in the parish of Abran, in the municipality of Santarém, his life was marked by a significant entrepreneurship spirit and a well-acquainted social consciousness. His business universe, which began in 1980, through the « JJ Louro Pereira, SA », developed and diversified an intense activity over more than three decades, internationalising and taking the « Louro Group » which includes six more companies to invest in Portugal, especially in the Santarém district, where he employs about 1000 workers, but also abroad, becoming an important industrial unit with an export vocation. Having not had the opportunity to develop education, Joaquim José Pereira Louro has since developed a deep social and civic awareness, worrying about the well-being of the workers and employees of his businesses, but also about all the citizens of his community in general. Being the largest private employer in the region, he sought to create adequate and permanent social conditions for them, through the construction of a primary school and a kindergarten with high standards of demand, which opened to the whole community, fully supported by its financial resources, constantly supporting families and collectives, through solidarity contributions to institutions of social, cultural, sporting and religious charism. The business and social activity of this benemerit, a man deeply discreet and supportive, was timely recognized by the City Hall of Santarém, which attributed it to the Gold Medal of the city. Also in 2009, on the occasion of the Day of Portugal, Camões and the Portuguese Communities, the industrialist saw his sense of entrepreneurship and civics, having been thanked with the degree of Commander in the Industrial Merit class. In view of the above, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Joaquim José Louro Pereira and presents his condolences to the bereaved family."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u140	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I ask everyone to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 243 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Congratulations on the election of Cristiano Ronaldo as the best footballer in the world ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). Again, I ask the Secretary, Mrs Maria Paula Cardoso, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Cristiano Ronaldo, winner of the 2014 Gold Ball, won for the third time the award for the best player in the world, a remarkable fact in the world of football. The Portuguese footballer, who had already won in 2008 and 2013 the prize awarded by France Football and FIFA to the best player of the year, stood before the Argentine Lionel Messi and German bodyguard Manuel Neuer. Cristiano Ronaldo was born in Madeira in February 1985, and very early he started playing football in two Funchal clubs, first at the Andorinha Football Club, from Santo António, and then at the National Sports Club, showing since very new the enormous qualities and visible potentials of which he holds in this sport mode. It was at the Sporting Club of Portugal that Cristiano Ronaldo, today one of the biggest world football stars, grew up as a player and as a man. Their soccer qualities were quickly recognized, both nationally and internationally. in his passage through English football, he won all the prizes, trophies and high prizes to which, at European and world level, a footballer can aspire. Cristiano Ronaldo, a determined footballer with a huge desire to win, achieved, during the year 2014, a rhythm of more than one goal per game ( 61 in 60 meetings) and won four titles: the ever-appetable League of Champions, the World Clubs, the European Super Cup and the Spanish King's Cup. These titles also join the election for the best player of UEFA and the Spanish League and the title king of the champions of the Champions, with a record of 18 goals. Thanks to two memorable games in front of Sweden, with four goals obtained by Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese selection moved to the 2014 World Cup. In view of his unusual talent and work ability, Cristiano Ronaldo has thus become the first Portuguese to win the prize "Player of the Year FIFA—Bola de Gold" three times and is today one of the greatest and best examples of projection of the name of Portugal in the world, making it a cause for pride for all Portuguese. The prize now achieved, for the third time in his career, translates into an entirely just victory of the one who is the best player in the world. It digifies Portuguese sport and is an incentive especially for young people. Even during 2014, the Portuguese player, who holds numerous human qualities, was decorated by his Excellency Mr. President of the Republic, Prof. Aníbal Cavaco Silva, with the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of the Infante D. Henrique, received from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira the Autonomic Court of Distinction, the highest decoration of the region, and attended the inauguration of a statue with its image at the Sea Square in Funchal, where Cristiano Ronaldo, as a recognition of his homeland, installed a museum that welcomes the many trophies he has achieved throughout his career. Cristiano Ronaldo, in addition to a footballer of election, has demonstrated rare human qualities, evidenced by the pride that always bears on his land — Madeira — by his constant reference to his origins and extraordinary dedication to his family and friends. The Assembly of the Republic is associated with the national recognition of this title achieved, testimony of effort, determination, dedication and commitment for conquest and welcomes the election of Cristiano Ronaldo, by FIFA, as the best footballer of the world in 2014 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP applause, with PSD and standing CDS-PP Members.]] Mrs. Members, let us proceed with vote No 245 / XII ( 4. ( a) — Sentence by imprisonment and public punishment of Raef Badawi (BE). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Rosa Maria Albernaz, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Kneeled and handcuffed, Raef Badawi, exposed in a public square in Jida — the second largest city in Saudi Arabia — was subjected to the first of many public punishment sessions to which the Saudi regime condemned him for exercising peaceful and consciously his universal rights of freedom of expression and assembly. in all will be 1000 whipped, divided by 20 weeks, waiting for you, if your penalty is not cancelled. last Friday, January 10, 2015, short moments after the end of the noon prayers, were 50 whipped. Raef Badawi, also sentenced to 10 years in prison, is co-founder of the Saudi Liberal Network site, a forum for social and political online debate, where he was author of several critical texts to the religious authorities of the country. Defender of freedom of expression and separation between State and Church, he was considered a prisoner of conscience by Amnesty International in 2012 when he was arrested by « violation of Islamic values », « spread of liberal thought» and « ridicule by the Islamic authorities» of the country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the arrest of Raef Badawi, its public punishment for whipping and joins in the international cry for its immediate release».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u144	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1137 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen investment in dredging works in national ports, particularly in the port of Póvoa de Varzim ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1194 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures guaranteeing the safety of ports and the protection of coastal shoreline ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1209 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government present a work priority plan at fishing ports across the country ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1214 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the dismantling of the fishing port of Póvoa de Varzim and the conduct of a technical study that solves this structural problem ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1216 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to improve safety conditions in accessibility to national bars and fishing ports ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 680 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — expressly commends gender identity in the field of the right to equality in access to employment and at work, making the fifth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we now generally vote on Bill No 266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 699 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Returns deleted holidays ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens, and with abstentions from the PS and the Member of the CDS-PP José Ribeiro and Castro.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 695 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Replacement of retired national holidays ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens, and with abstentions from the PS and the Member of the CDS-PP José Ribeiro and Castro.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 697 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Restores holidays of 1. December and 5 October ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 749 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Restitutes compulsory national holidays eliminated ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro.]] Now, we will generally vote on Bill No 750 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 751 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Labour Code adopted by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, providing for specific arrangements for the enjoyment and celebration of certain holidays, including their possible provisional suspension and lifting of the suspension ( CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, in favour of the CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u145	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u146	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u147	Madam President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written vote on the diplomas that have just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u148	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Mr. David Costa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u149	Madam President, I would also like to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. André Pardal, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u151	Madam President, I would like to announce that you and I are going to be able to do this. Deputies Joaquim Ponte, António Prôa and Gabriel Corte-Real Goucha will present a statement of vote on the bills we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be registered. Mr. José Ribeiro and Castro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u153	Madam President, it is also to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the package of holiday bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Be registered. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on the proposal for a law No 164 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Seventh amendment to the Election Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, and 2 / 2012 of 14 June ( ALRAA ). [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens were voted on.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1123 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conclude the second phase of construction of the Basic School of the Park of Nations and ensure the material and human conditions appropriate to its functioning ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1075 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the conclusion of the integrated core school of the Park of Nations ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 1180 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the conclusion of the second phase of the Integrated Basic School 1 / 2 / 3 with the Garden of Children Park of the Nations, in Lisbon ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1215 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Construction of the Integrated Basic School with the Park of Nations Children's Garden ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on motion for a resolution No 103 / XII ( 4 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde in the Field of Defence, signed in the city of Mindelo, on 2 December 2012. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, the CCP and the Greens voted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP and the BE.]] We shall now proceed to the general vote, in the general speciality and overall finality of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, on the projects of lein. 637 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia of the Union of the Freguesias de Viseu, in the city of Viseu, to Freguesia de Viseu ( PS ) and 638 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name « Union of Freguesias de Viseu », in the city of Viseu, to « Viseu » ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE, votes against the CFP and the abstention of the Greens.]] We now vote on the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power on the request for urgent procedure of the proposed Law No 267 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September establishing the legal regime of local authorities, approving the status of inter-municipal entities, establishing the legal regime for the transfer of State competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities and approving the legal regime of local associations ( ALRAA ). Mrs. Members, the CFP called for a separate vote on points 1 and 2 of this opinion. We shall vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, on the proposal for a law No 259 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The ninth amendment is made to the Law on the Organization and Procedure of the Court of Auditors, adopted by Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the general vote, in the speciality and overall end of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the proposal for a law No 258 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to amend Law No 7 / 2008 of 15 February establishing the bases for the management and sustainable management of aquaculture resources in inland waters and defines the regulatory principles of fishing and aquaculture activities in those waters. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u155	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u156	Please, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u157	Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u158	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, before closing the session, the Secretary, Mrs Paula Cardoso, will report on two announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u159	Mr President, it is to announce the withdrawal by the PSD Parliamentary Group of Bill No 138 / XII ( 1. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July regulating the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques and by the Left Block Parliamentary Group of draft resolution No 1053 / XII ( 3 ). (a ) — Maintains the service of proximity to financial allocations, safeguarding the territory, municipalities, public services and populations. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-16.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. We will meet next Wednesday, January 21, starting at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: 1 — General discussion of Bill No 275 / XII ( 4 ) (a) — Approves the new Statute for the Roads of the National Road Network; 2 — Joint debate of Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public public public passenger transport services in the city of Lisbon, without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Companhia Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA ( Carris, SA ) [ parliamentary assessments n. 127 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 125 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public transport service by metropolitan of passengers in the city of Lisbon and in the neighbouring municipalities of Great Lisbon, covered by the respective area corresponding to level III of the Nomenclature for Territorial and Statistical Purposes ( NUTS ), without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Metropolitan of Lisbon, EPE ( ML, EPE ) [ parliamentary assessments n. 128 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 126 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ] ; 3 — Assessment of Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December approving the process of indirect reprivatization of the capital of TAP, Portuguese Air Transport, SA [ Parliamentary assessments No 129 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 130 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ; 4 — Joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 655 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Change the Civil Registry Code, taking into account assisted medicinal product procreation, adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex ( BE), 656 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminating the legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May) ( BE) and 753 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ) ; 5 — Finally, petition No 322 / XII ( 3. (a) — Presented by Guilherme Basto and others, against the closure of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 27 minutes.]]
