ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 760 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia of the Union of Freguesias de Repeses and São Salvador, in the city of Viseu, to Freguesia de Repeses and São Salvador ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 761 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia of the Union of Freguesias of São Cipriano and Vil de Souto, in the municipality of Viseu, to Freguesia of São Cipriano and Vil de Souto ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 762 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia of the Union of the Freguesias of Vila Real ( Our Lady of the Conceição, São Pedro and São Dinis ), in the municipality of Vila Real, to Freguesia of Vila Real ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and draft resolution No 1232 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — National Pantheon Honors to the Eusébio da Silva Ferreira ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ), which falls to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get on the agenda. The first item on our agenda comes from a marking of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the general assessment of the proposed law No 276 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a regional tax system ( ALRAM ). As no Member is yet present, the Bureau is awaiting registrations for the debate and taking advantage of it to tell the Members. Members who are present, in our galleries, a set of Luso-Electites in various regions of the world, who have moved here to participate in the Third World Meeting of Luso-Electos. For them, our applause, with all the pleasure. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, we await the inclusion of speakers for the debate on the proposal for a law No 276 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u4	Madam President, I would like to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u5	You have the floor, Mr Hugo Velosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I mean VV. For example, I like to talk about this proposal by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. And I have a huge taste, because I argue, in the name of the PSD, that this matter will always be led by this party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u8	The PSD has led this matter in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which has just been dissolved, and will continue to lead this matter. And I mean the PSD in its whole, not the PSD / Madeira or this or that PSD, because the PSD is aware that for the future of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, this is a fundamental matter. We have no doubt that it is a fundamental matter for the future of the region. I don't have time to talk about the content of the proposal,... [[Rice from the PCP and BE.]] ... but it is clear that the content of the proposal, essentially, is fundamental to the region. In fact, it was not by chance that the proposal had no votes against in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which had just been dissolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u9	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u10	Even the ladies. Members who are now laughing—I don't know why, but they must think of something very serious—there, they didn't vote against the proposal. And not voting against means that everyone has accepted that this proposal, with nuances, with amendments, is a future solution for the Autonomous Region of Madeira. But this is something that hurts many parliamentary groups, some because they do not argue that there is a special tax regime for the region — to the left of this Parliament, but nevertheless abstained there — to others because they are zigzag in relation to matters of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. What the Socialist Party usually does, for example, are attacks on what happens with the governance of the PSD in Madeira. So, the gentlemen. Members may laugh, but have no doubt that the future of the region, its economy, its economic diversification will go through the creation of a tax regime other than that which currently exists, and we have no doubt that the PSD, I repeat, will all be united in this matter. They prepare themselves that this matter will always be led by the PSD, so it is not worth trying to create divisions where they do not exist, in a matter that is central to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there was an election in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. at this moment, this Legislative Assembly is dissolved and it is not worth ignoring. It sends the democratic spirit that a dissolved assembly should be replaced by another assembly. We hope that the majority will continue to be the PSD, but we must give the floor to the Madeirans, because these, yes, the Portuguese residents of the region, will elect a new Assembly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u12	... and we must also give the floor to the new politicians who will be elected by the people of Madeira and Porto Santo. Therefore, even as a Member of Madeira, I am perfectly prepared to defend that it makes no sense to promote the adoption of this proposal in this democratic framework of the dissolved Legislative Assembly. And I think everyone will agree, in a democratic spirit, with the way the institutions should work. so that we are advocates of the fall of this bill, without a vote, to its committee, in the effective democratic sense of knowing what the new composition of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira will be in order to respect the democratic will of the Madeirans or Portuguese residents of Madeira. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u13	You have the floor now, too, for one speech, Mr Jacinto Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To assess the record of Mr Hugo Velosa, in fact, we are led to believe that the whole PSD is determined on this issue, i.e. to put this matter in the drawer, as will be the way of this initiative. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u15	The proposed law now under consideration aims at a more favourable tax regime for the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which, for the Socialist Party, is no taboo. It also aims to constitute new economic and financial dynamics to address the grave problems of debt created by Alberto João Jardim's Executive and to get out of the situation of deep economic and social crisis in which Madeira is experiencing, a crisis that, as we all know, not only results from the international environment, but also from the glaring mistakes of a 38-year government, by a party that governed the Region with a typical single party regime, and also from the illegality of the hidden debt generated by this regional government and the PSD, which was covered by the Government of the Republic, as we all know more specifically by the Ministry of Finance. The proposal for a law is politically understandable, although it lacks reflections on certain technical and legal aspects, both nationally and at European Union level, as well as further deepening of the alleged effects of its application. But since Mr Hugo Velosa didn't want to talk about the proposal, because, by the way, he doesn't believe in it himself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u16	Are you getting into my consciousness? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u17	I am here about the proposal and its kindness. We all know that the political opportunity for this debate is questionable. It has already been seen that this debate is involved in a series of weaknesses of a legal and political nature, some of which Mr Hugo Velosa pointed out, and we all already know of its consequences. We are certainly raining in the wetlands on this matter. And most, as I said at the beginning, will put it in the drawer, because that is exactly what you want and always intended. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Hugo Velosa's statement could be assessed, it is no less a political number to 'wash the face' of the newly elected regional leader of the PSD on the eve of elections. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister and PSD leader has already been confronted with this proposal at a meeting largely propagated by the regional PSD leader, but apparently Mr. Prime Minister, and PSD leader, did not take it seriously. Miguel Albuquerque, as we all know, came out of hand to shake off this meeting. I regret, as a Maderian, and certainly Parliament should regret, that such issues, initiatives of this nature, which had and should aim to credible the autonomic process, which certainly have a relevant importance for the affirmation and credibility of autonomy, are being instrumentalized by the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u18	The intervention of the CDS-PP is followed, for which I give the floor to Mr Rui Barreto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before talking about the concrete proposal, I do not resist telling my colleague Hugo Velosa that the proposal being discussed today is not a proposal of the PSD / Madeira and for the PSD / Madeira,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u20	... is a proposal that was submitted by a PSD Member, who had the approval of the CDS-PP bench in Madeira and is for the Maderians, for Madeira, at the service of the Maderians. The honourable Member began by making a statement which he should not have made, until this matter, as it should be calculated, should deserve dialogue, should merit attention and the contributions which he is making in the field of expertise. Therefore, being this proposal in the national Parliament, we must all be summoned to demonstrate its merits, to remove its doubts, to dissipate its reservations. I would like to explain why this proposal is. Madeira is today faced with a problem of unsustainable public finances, which, as is recognized by all and also by the PSD, is the result of past mistakes. It is not important here to be 'twisting in the wetlands', but the truth is this and it is so true, let me say the pleonasm, that until the State budget which was approved for 2015 was returned to the faculty of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Autonomous Region of Madeira can use the 30 % tax differential. The Regional Government of Madeira, in view of this unsustainability, continues to maintain this gap and even after a plan of austerity and a programme of economic and financial adjustment which ended on 27 January this year, continued this austerity until the end of this year. So, Mr. Hugo Velosa, it went wrong. This proposal is for Madeira, it is for Madeirans and I think that's how it should be located. The people of Madeira want us to know how to find solutions. This is a proposal that clearly indicates a path, a way to rehabilitate the regional economy, create jobs and give hope again. I therefore hope that, in discussion of the speciality, if we are able to dispel doubts, uncertainties, reservations, whether they are constitutionally, European law or regulatory. I ask this Parliament and all its parliamentary groups to look at this proposal without stigmas, without prejudice, seeing its merits, dissipating its doubts, so that we can, without harming national cohesion and its differences, find solutions for the people of Madeira, which well deserves, because it is the one who makes the most fiscal effort and who contributes more to its budget. Conformism does not resolve and we are all called to provide a service and to find the best solutions for the people of the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u21	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have to say that I came to this discussion having studied the bill, having examined each of its articles and realizing that there is a choice on the table about the tax regime for the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Curiously, despite so much insistence that this schedule be made—and well, because the Legislative Assembly deserves this schedule to be made—we now perceive in the tactic of the majority, particularly the PSD, that the aim is not to discuss anything concrete. In fact, Mr Hugo Velosa talked so much about the matter that he did not study it, because he did not mention a single word about its content.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u23	What?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u24	in his speech, he spoke on the back, matter forward, matter on the one hand, matter on the other, but on the content he did not mention a single word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u25	But doesn't the Block know why you're not in the Regional Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u26	You've already figured out the tactics. The tactic is not to make any compromise, to ensure that there is no differentiated vote on the PSD bench in relation to the members of the Madeira PSD and thus bring these proposals of law down to the parliamentary committee. Therefore, the result is clear and is said to be in one sentence: marinating until it expires. This is the objective of the PSD: to marinate until, after dissolution of the Legislative Assembly and indicated its new composition, this legislative initiative may expire and therefore will not reach anywhere. in practice, that's what we're talking about here. None of the interventions referred to any content on this topic. We could discuss, for example, why Madeira's offshore has adulterated the accounts of the region and how this adultery of the accounts harms the Madeiran people, because it prevents them from having support, since their GDP is influenced. Companies that go to the region are benefited not to pay taxes but not to create jobs and then the Community support that could get there is not enough because GDP is adultery. Portugal is one of the largest international exporters of steel, when we have no steel operation. And this is because there is a company that exports steel that is located in the offshore of Madeira. It does not create a single job, it does not create any dynamism for economic activity, it goes there just to not pay taxes. This was an important debate, it was even an interesting debate about decisive choices and to understand who really defends the people of Madeira. It has already been noted that on the part of the majority there is no desire to have a serious debate, there is only a desire not to have a concrete position. Sailing until it expires is the motto that brought us this afternoon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u27	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u28	Mr. António Filipe ( PCP ) :— Madam President, Mr. Members: This is a debate that will be memorable, because in fact it has something surreal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u29	Are you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u30	Mr António Filipe ( PCP ) : — Of course, because the PSD does not want to talk about the content of the bill and does not want to vote on it. But claim your paternity, which is extraordinary! I would like to say, of course, that we have serious reservations to the content of this bill, in particular as regards the constitutionality of the proposal as regards violation of the autonomy of the local authority, insofar as the relationship between the governing bodies of the Regions and their authorities does not undermine the necessary autonomy of the local authority. With regard to the content of the proposal, I want to say that we are at ease. If it made sense to be discussing it, after the announcement that the PSD made of its intention to bring the bill down to committee without a vote, of course we would clearly express the serious and well-founded reservations we have regarding its content. We'd like that to be clear. The position which Mr Hugo Velosa expressed here is a surreal position, because it only makes sense to discuss these bills so that they can be voted before their expiry, and their expiry occurs at the end of the legislature. What the Constitution says is that the bills fall with the end of the legislature, not with the decree of dissolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u31	We wanted to postpone, you guys didn't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u32	Mr António Filipe ( PCP ) : — Parliament only ends when it takes possession of the next Legislative Assembly. Therefore, it would make every sense that the legislative proposals presented in this House by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira were discussed and voted in good time to be approved, if any, before the beginning of the next legislature. What happens is that the PSD has made it clear by Mr Hugo Velosa's intervention that he does not want to do so and will therefore force the Assembly of the Republic to make a rather unusual figure when they say « it is very urgent that this be discussed and voted because the legislature is almost ending and the initiatives will expire soon, but we will bring them down to the committee without a vote». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's the point of this doing? Absolutely none. It only makes sense to debate these proposals now if there is a prospect that there will be a decision on them, in the sense of approval or rejection, but that everyone will take responsibility. What Mr. Hugo Velosa has come here to say is 'this is our proposal, it is a proposal that we assume, but not now, it must be a day later at the next Legislative Assembly. » And here he makes a vote of faith, saying that it must be the PSD to present it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u33	How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u34	Mr António Filipe ( PCP ) : — Mr, we do not know whether it is the PSD. The people of Madeira will say what will be the composition of the next Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Clearly, what makes no sense is to schedule these legislative initiatives now to bring them down to committee without a vote, so that they will never be voted on. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u35	The Bureau filed an application to the Bureau of Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u36	Madam President, the request for an appeal to the Bureau is on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u37	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u38	Madam President, I would like to make it clear that I am not going to discuss the political position of the parliamentary groups on this subject, but the Members who have already spoken, in particular the latter, Mr.António Filipe, said repeatedly that this was an unusual situation that we are proceeding with this debate and that there will not be a decision by Parliament. Now, I would like to inform the House and all those who follow this debate that we are only having this discussion because the Portuguese Communist Party has made it impossible to unschedule this matter on the basis of the decision of the President of the Republic of dissolution of the Regional Parliament and the convening of elections by next March 29.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u39	Now! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u40	I would therefore like to make it very clear that we were available to refer this discussion to a moment after the elections. And for an obvious reason, which does not have to do with the substance of the matter, but with the fact that the political will of the regional legislature is at stake here, which we do not know whether the post-election will or will not be confirmed. In fact, Mr António Filipe, if it is absurdly — in fact, it would be a political and electoral absurd — the Portuguese Communist Party would win the regional legislative elections, it would not approve a proposal from the Legislative Assembly because, as the honourable Member said here, and by confirming what we already knew, the Communist Party is against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u41	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u42	In conclusion, Madam President, let it be clear that each party will say what it understands about the substance of this proposal. from a political and democratic point of view, we understand that it is useful to wait for the pronouncement of the people of Madeira and, subsequently, the proclamation of the Assembly representative of the popular will of the people of Madeira that will be expressed when it is reintroduced. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u43	Mr João Oliveira also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u44	Madam President, I would also like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the work. I begin by subscribing to what Mr Luís Montenegro has said, because in fact it was on our initiative that this bill and the others that will be discussed below have not been removed from the agenda. We did not agree that the proposals should be removed from the agenda. In other words, this discussion is being held today because the PCP has raised a question of whether it is being made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u45	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u46	I believe, Madam President, that there is a misunderstanding and that Mr Luís Montenegro has misinterpreted the words of my comrade Antonio Filipe. The unusual thing that my comrade has said is not that the debate is being held is that tomorrow the proposals go down to the committee without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u47	Absurd is wanting to vote something to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u48	That is an unusual fact, because we wanted the debate to be made and the proposals to be voted on. We are now faced with this unusual fact of the PSD, which did not want to discuss the proposals, try not to vote them, refer them to the discussion in the specialty without a vote, waiting for them to expire. That, Mr Luís Montenegro, is indeed at least unusual. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u49	Establishment of a regional tax system ( ALRAM ). We now move on to the general discussion of the proposals of lein. 228 / XII ( 3 ) as a whole. ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( ALRAM ) ; 233 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child ( ALRAM ), 109 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Greater protection of maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ) and 139 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Creation of the child's observatory ( ALRAM ). Mr Francisco Gomes, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that are brought to our consideration today are very important legal instruments in combating serious social situations and also to ensure that the Portuguese State acts as a cohesive and territorially continuous State. The proposals concerning children's rights are undeniable steps forward, qualitative steps with which we can identify ourselves regardless of party inspiration, steps that allow the country to respond better to an undeniable lack of responsibility: to guarantee the rights, physical integrity and psychological integrity of children. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the duty to accept these proposals is so clear that I will not remind the House — because the House is already informed about this — of the great physical and psychological damage caused to children by situations of sexual abuse. I will, however, recall the figures in the 2013 Annual Internal Security Report, which point to a chilling cold that in 2013 alone more than 1200 cases of sexual abuse of minors and more than 450 cases of rape of minors have been recorded. If we want to simplify this situation, let us remember only the following: every day — every day! — the rights of three children in Portugal are abused, and this is a fact that shames our country. We also consider a proposal for a 2% increase in support of maternity, paternity and adoption in the autonomous regions of our country. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, it is a duty of the State, which emanates from the constitutional text, the principle of territorial continuity, as well as the principle of solidarity. Both, however, determine the State's obligation to compensate for the increased cost of living in the outermost regions, and that is precisely what is proposed. If we are going to be a country that works in accordance with these principles, in accordance with the notions we defend and profess in the constitutional text, then we must accept this proposal. Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a subject that goes beyond the constitutional text, which goes beyond the numbers of the security reports, and which is as simple as this: there is a society out there, there is a country waiting for us clear answers to the problems of their daily lives. Often this society and this country look at us with some suspicion and wonder if we can give an effective answer to the questions raised. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a clear opportunity for us to stand together in defence of issues that are not only important for maternity, paternity or the rights of children, but, yes, for the whole country, because they are socially strategic issues. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that we will be up to that responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u51	Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We choose to focus on issues related to the sexual exploitation and abuse of children, which is undoubtedly one of the worst forms of violence, whose direct and indirect, immediate and lasting consequences affect the whole society. The national and international commitment in this area is known and recognized. I merely recall our participation in various international instruments, since the 1989 United Nations Convention and its optional protocol to the European Social Charter, the Cybercrime Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Human Trafficking or, more recently, the Lanzarote Convention. within the framework of the European Union, I could also mention several framework decisions, including those relating to the status of the victim and the fight against child pornography. in the national context, I cannot fail to emphasize the commitment of the CDS itself, which has repeatedly brought the debate and formalized initiatives on the use of the Internet as a form of solicitation and attraction of minors as well as for the use and dissemination of pedophornography. However, we must all recognize that the truth is that, regardless of national and international efforts and commitments, sexual exploitation and abuse against children continue to constitute, worldwide, one of the most heinous forms of threat and violation of their fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen. According to UNICEF, the so-called "sex industry" exploits about two million children annually; more than one million images from 10 000 to 20 000 children who are victims of sexual abuse are circulating on the Internet. Few of these children have been identified and others are anonymous, probably abandoned, as well as victims of abuse. We do not have statistics on the scale of child sexual abuse in Europe, but it is known that the number of cases reported is below the actual number of cases. Looking at the national reality and referring to the data of the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ), we found that from 2012 to 2013 there was an increase of 1074 participations to 1227. As a characterization, the available data show that, both in Europe and Portugal, most of the sexual abuses committed against children are perpetrated in the family environment, by people close to the child or his or her social environment, affecting mostly children between the ages of 8 and 13. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the reality and the commitments made, we cannot fail to recognize the goodness of the initiative under discussion. However, I would like to remind you of two aspects which deserve weighting. First, it is known that the Ministry of Justice has pending legislative amendments in this area in order to ensure compliance with the obligations arising, in particular the Lanzarote Convention. Therefore, any regulatory solution that is to be adopted on these issues for the purposes of ensuring effectiveness must always be harmonized, both with existing instruments — and, for example, with plans to combat trafficking in human beings and domestic violence — as well as with instruments that may be adopted. I also recall, even due to the relevance of the other initiatives also under discussion, the work being done at the governmental level with a view to reviewing, on the one hand, the law of adoption and, on the other hand, the Child Protection Organization ( TMO ), the law of the child and youth protection committees and the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger. Secondly, and in conclusion, we must not ignore that sexual exploitation of children and sexual abuse of children are crimes provided for in the Criminal Code, whose investigation and combat strategies lie with the police, and therefore we must take care of some of the proposals, in particular in order to avoid the multiplication of bodies with overlapping functions. Having said this, focusing on children and aware of the need to continue to work in the defence of their best interests, we highlight the initiative, whose relevance will be duly weighted in the framework we have just described. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We continue to emphasise the current debate of these four legislative initiatives of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, recalling that today one in three children is subject to poverty and that today they are known to be privileged victims of austerity policies. This is recorded in the explanatory statement to one of these bills, which clearly condemns the poverty policy of children. at the same time I want to underline the data of the Annual Internal Security Report, as we have often done here in other debates, in particular the numbers so worrying about the worsening of sexual abuse of children and adolescents, as well as of crimes of sexual coercion and rape. I believe that the debate on these initiatives allows us today to question whether public policies are in fact focused on children, because they are obviously central if we want to find and look at the future. And they're not. In fact, there are numerous weaknesses, in addition to the legal framework that has already been invoked here. in this sense, the Left Block can only follow the bill No. 228 / XII ( 3. ( a ) on the national strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, in the multidisciplinary perspective invoked by the proposal, which not only assumes the data of the Annual Internal Security Report as the commitments of the Council of Europe Convention on this matter. We also refer to Bill No 233 / XII ( 3. ( a ) concerning the national action plan for children's rights, which is inserted in this imperative always postponed to understand children as subjects of rights and not as prescriptions of certain specific rights which must be protected in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. in this sense, the creation of the child's observatory seems to us also of enormous importance. We also, of course, accompany the proposed increase in 2% for social protection benefits in maternity, paternity and adoption. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u55	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing four legislative initiatives by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira concerning the strengthening of the rights of children. They aim: the creation of the child's observatory; the definition of a national plan of action for children's rights; the definition of a national strategy of prevention against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children; and the increase of social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption. These proposals are from the authorship of the Portuguese Communist Party in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which is, for us, a great pride and has great meaning. All these initiatives were approved unanimously, with the exception of the proposal to create a national action plan for children's rights, with the vote against the CDS. in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, as in the Assembly of the Republic, the CFP has presented solutions to ensure effective compliance with the economic, social and cultural rights of children. It is that although fundamental rights exist in the form of law, there are not in the concrete life of thousands of children in our country. Although there are no updated statistical data, the signs coming from society are very worrying and reveal civilizational setbacks in terms of child feeding and follow-up situations. We also signed the agreement announced here by the PSD and the CDS-PP on some diplomas, when we had a recent opportunity to discuss identical issues here and voted against the CFP proposals. We hope, of course, that tomorrow they will accompany us, because the proposals are fair, and that they will allow these diplomas to be approved. It is also important to say that several experts have warned that the situation of childhood in Portugal lacks adequate and effective means of diagnosis and that there is no permanent and continuing institutional space for analysis of children. Since the extinction of the National Commission for the Rights of the Child, studies have not been carried out in Portugal on the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For the PCP it is necessary to break with this path. A path that did not want to be invoked by the PSD and the CDS, but which is effectively impoverished and exacerbated by poverty and social exclusion in the lives of thousands of families, particularly loudly about children and young people. We understand, moreover, that this path is inseparable from the policy under way of destroying the social functions of the State and from the reconfiguration of the State's own role in the consecration of rights, which, in fact, these proposals assume. In fact, these diplomas assume that it is up to the State to ensure specific conditions for the protection and promotion of children's rights, in accordance with the constitutional text. We therefore understand that these proposals are very important for us to continue to fight so that the rights and dignity of children are a reality in everyday life and not just in the role. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u57	Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party emphasises the current issues we are discussing today, particularly with regard to the rights of children. This is a subject of extreme relevance, insofar as Bill No. 228 / XII itself ( 3 ). a ) notes that in times of worsening poverty and exploitation, of creating new forms of poverty, women and children are in line with this reality. That is it, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a reality to which we are called to look today, knowing that by more bills, by more bills or by more rights that we can create in law, what really matters is to guarantee the conditions of your exercise. And that is the point, the face of the law that we must take care of, i.e. to ensure that the rights that are in the law are in fact exercised, and that is not what happens. As already mentioned here, we know today that, in every three children, one is at the threshold of poverty. Today we know what happens to our children. And it's also that look we have to have. It is not enough to make more laws or more diplomas if they are not implemented in practice. The rights created are not realized and the minors, like women, continue to be the most penalized by the crisis and poverty. We welcome this debate, yes, but we also believe that it is time to take up the diagnosis of situations so that we can quickly respond to the concerns that these bills invoke us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u59	This concludes the debate on the second item on the agenda, a set of legislative proposals by the Madeira Regional Legislative Assembly on children's rights. We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No 698 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring the right to access to goods of first need water and energy ( sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July — Law of the Essential Public Services) ( BE ). To open the debate and present the bill, Mrs Helena Pinto of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to goods of first need, as is the case with water, electricity and gas, cannot be denied for reasons of economic deficiency. This is the great foundation of the bill that the Left Block again brings the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. The figures show that many families are unable to pay the bills of water, electricity and gas because the money does not reach the end of the month. There are non-governmental organizations that work in the field and who are well aware of situations confirm this situation. I could talk here about many organizations and many witnesses, but I would like to highlight two organisations within so many who are doing this work and who have made public statements on this subject in particular. I speak of DECO and Caritas de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u61	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u62	The Left Block proposes again that it be enshrined in the Law of Essential Public Services the impossibility of suspension of water, electricity and gas for reasons of economic deficiency. The poor have to be supported and not penalized. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a humanist and social emergency measure that already exists in other countries of the European Union. Existing measures, such as social tariff, are important measures, without doubt, but do not solve the problem of extreme poverty. We therefore call on Parliament to approve this proposal, whose positive reflection would be very important for tens and dozens of families, and that impact would be undeniable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u63	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is indeed a project that was recovered from the previous legislative session. The PS recognizes the need to do something so that people who really need access essential public goods such as gas, electricity and water. Our perspective has to do with the existence of social tariffs, for which we must ensure that they are applied and that they have access to people who really need them. We understand that the spirit reflected in this project is to emphasize that the State, both at central and local level, has already found mechanisms to respond to situations like this, either through, as I say, social tariffs, which were created, I would recall, by the former PS Government, but which were implemented by a Government of this majority, either through new tariff regulations in the water and sanitation sectors. We must bear in mind that the proposed measures must be reasonable and must respect not only the sustainability of the public service institutions but also the autonomy of the authorities. We recognize that it's not all right. For this reason, the PS also submitted a draft resolution to improve access to social tariff, i.e. to ensure that access is given, because, I recall, the Government's objective was to have more than 600 000 families to access this tariff and the Government itself recognizes that only 60 000 families can do so three years later. So only 10 % have access. There are really questions to change, and the PS will present this project and schedule it as soon as possible. We must also remember that with regard to both water and sanitation, the ERSAR (Regulatory Authority of Water and Waste Services) itself will make some of these measures mandatory. But I also play the role of the authorities... [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] Am I going to say they're all the same? You are not, Mrs. Helena Pinto. Indeed, there are some more social policies in this respect than others, but they have several measures that have already been taken through payment deadline delays and through flow reduction mechanisms instead of the court. We must support those who need and say what needs to be done through measures that combat unemployment, through social support that have been cut off, causing more than two million people at risk of poverty. This is what we are against, considering that we have to find measures to get people out of poverty and to give these social support to those who need it. Recently, measures have been mentioned that cut the family allowance to children, cut the social income of insertion, complement solidarity to the elderly, and therefore we believe that people have to be helped to pay. It is for this purpose that the PS will work, respecting the principles that are established in the law and respecting autonomy, but not advancing with a measure that we recognize is framed in a state of social emergency, but that it is a little more than we think acceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u65	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to essential goods such as water, energy, electricity and gas or effluent treatment services are civilizational achievements that have made fundamental contributions to the quality of life of citizens, to the improvement of many health indicators and are also an element of integration and social inclusion. For these and many other reasons, the guarantee of access to these essential goods and public services is a social cost that societies, service providers and countries must bear. The growing poverty situation, which is a sign and a symptom of the economic model to which the country has been condemned and a mark of the policy on the right of successive governments, has unfortunately its most visible face in the impossibility of many Portuguese access to essential goods. The PSD government / CDS, but also the PS, are very uncomfortable with the collapse of a banker, but not with the cutting of water or electricity to 1000 families. It's the idea that he's defending who's poor because he wants to. As if they deserved to be poor so that others could be very rich. The inability of many Portuguese people to bear the payment of water or electricity accounts does not come only from economic difficulties, income reduction or purchasing power. There is another related reason, which is another aspect of the policies of these governments. The PSD government and the CDS, but also the PS government, are not only capable of reducing Portuguese income, as they are also committed to transforming into private business everything that Portuguese cannot dispense, in order to deliver the guaranteed profits to companies benefiting from privatisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u68	They do so in health, education and now also in social protection or in the fiscal relationship between the State and the citizens. But they also did it in what is most essential, in the supply of water and electricity. in the water, they privatized some companies and made the public behave as if they were private. They increased water prices, closed public fountains to force consumption only of the water they sell...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u69	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u70	...and then we see, as we saw, the burning saws and the afflicted autotanks, because the water points were removed. in electricity, not only the highly lucrative nature of EDP has contributed to the increase of energy costs, as the government has given a beautiful help when applying the maximum VAT rate to a first-needed asset. I take advantage to say that we do not follow the narrative of the Block of Left that is contained in the preamble of the draft resolution, placing in the same bag an entity that blocks access to the waste water network and another that reduces the flow as an alternative to the cut, as happens in Loures and Odivelas. The CFP agrees that access to essential goods should be considered as integrating the minimum level of human dignity beyond which it cannot be permitted to go. For this reason, the CFP Parliamentary Group will follow the Left Block in its legislative proposal. However, we have no doubt that the solid solution to this problem is only possible with a policy of respect for human beings, a policy that does not allow the supply of essential goods to be turned into business, which ensures the maintenance in the public sphere of the structuring sectors for the country. A policy that stops the destruction of the country and that resumes the spirit of the historical conquests of April. In short, a patriotic and left-wing policy that guarantees conditions of human dignity for all Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u71	The next intervention is the PSD. Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How should they calculate, no politician, no party or government have any pleasure in raising taxes, collecting essential goods or reducing the revenue of families. There are, often, conditions in real life that lead them to take these measures. And, as in everything in life, there are some politicians, some parties and some governments that live and know the reality of their countries. There are others who have their own agendas, third party agendas, and live in demagogy and, as it is already beginning to be current, in bluff to win elections. The PSD therefore opted for a compromise with Portugal. This commitment is to rule our country to think about the future, to think that there has to be a tomorrow for our children, and it has opted for a policy of truth, always showing to the Portuguese the consequences of each government action. The Government, contrary to what the Left Block here proposes, has decided not to stop charging these tariffs, but has created three essential mechanisms to support those who are most vulnerable. Protection to the most vulnerable consumers is made through a social electricity tariff, through a social natural gas tariff and through extraordinary social support to the energy consumer. And here starts part of the incongruence of what the Left Block here brings us. For the Left Block today, those who are lacking have more difficulty than three years ago to pay for energy. Well, ladies. Members, this government has increased the minimum pensions, which were frozen since 2010, increased the national minimum wage and created this mechanism that allows energy rates to be lower. So it is reasonable for you to say that today the most vulnerable continue to pay the same price and have the same difficulties that they had three years ago? I don't think so, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. But there's more, sirs. Members of the Left Block. I ask them: when making a proposal for these, we would like to realize, in order to have reasonable measures, what is compensation, where are we going to look for the money to pay the suppliers of these goods what they are not going to be redeemed from? Well, I know, they're gonna say it's the state. All right. But my question is this: have you already realized that the State budget is not as static as you would like it to be? We cannot be owed everything and everyone, as you would like. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] So you have to explain to the Portuguese where they're going to get that money. Are they going to increase taxes? Are you going to take that money to health, to education? Or are we all going to pay more for the water and the light so that others can benefit? Explain to the Portuguese what your concrete measure is! The second question is that we must not only have rights and guarantees, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. You put forward a proposal that those who have less will not have to pay for these goods. But I ask them: what if one of these people spends as much energy as 10 families? So, just because it's missing, shouldn't it pay? Is there no point in your proposals? You have to understand where your sense of justice is. That is what I ask you: where is the justice of this proposal? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the concern of the Left Block at the moment should be with the bluff that existed in Greece and that this bluff does not turn into a sad reality for the Portuguese. Yes, sir, the Greek Government has already taken a step similar to what you propose. But let me tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if Greece ceases to pay what we have lent it, we will have to increase taxes and increase difficulties for the Portuguese, and that has not been the case until today. For PSD, above all, is Portugal and the Portuguese, and not the other countries. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u73	The next intervention is the CDS-PP. Mr. Altino Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that today, once again, the Left Block brings us here this bill that had already brought us, with virtually the same foundation, in 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u75	Until before that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u76	It's heated!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u77	But it is also true, as you have already been reminded, that this government has had social concerns, especially with those who had less income. Of course, during the Memorandum of Understanding, when the Socialist Party frozen minimum, social and rural pensions, these were frozen by this government. But the Left Block also brings us here a bill, I would say, with some misconceptions and even some falsities. I would also say that this bill, when referring to some systems, such as the Waters of the Aveiro Region (ADRA), claiming that it charges one of the country's most expensive water rates, does not correspond to the truth, because there are 36 systems that have more expensive rates than the Waters of the Aveiro Region. But also when he tells us that the poverty index reached its maximum point of 18, 7%, if we were to consult the data of the same National Institute of Statistics for 2007, we found that this poverty index was 18, 5 %. That is why we cannot say here that this worsening has been significant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u78	So there's no more poor people! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u79	We can also say that ERSAR (Regulatory Authority of Water and Waste Services ) has had, over recent years, and after the extension of its competences, a very specific action and recommendation in relation to those who are responsible for the distribution of low water and the prices that have to be fixed, i.e., the authorities. It is even a bit strange that the Left Block does not speak of the authorities, nor does it speak of what is the autonomy of local power. This, in an insensitive way, does not realize that, fortunately, there are many authorities in our country that apply social tariffs, which have social concerns with their citizens. But at the same time, he gives two examples — one of them already rejected by the CFP, in particular — referring to the fact that currently in Loures, a camera managed by the CFP, and in Odivelas, a chamber managed by the PS, municipalized water services are installing water flow restrictions to which accounts are being delayed. The measure drastically restricts the amount of water entering the dwelling and does not allow the heater or a washing machine to enter into operation. The CFP has already rejected this position. It seems to us that we have a left here that wants to pass as the greatest defender of those who are the most unprotected and as the greatest defender of those who have the most difficulties. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Here we have the Left Block against the PCP. But the government has also announced a press release and has already taken measures to implement a new social electricity tariff, as well as extraordinary social support to the energy consumer. Thus, Portuguese may apply for discounts of 34 % on the social electricity tariff. In order to access the social electricity tariff and extraordinary social support to the energy consumer, it is sufficient to address energy traders with the identification documents and this measure automatically enters into force, with the subsequent supervision of the Tax Authority and social security. However, beneficiaries of all levels of family allowance are also eligible, as well as persons who benefit from social pension of old age, support for the elderly, social income for inclusion, social unemployment benefit and disability pension. This well demonstrates the concerns the government has had. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u80	Even today, in the Council of Ministers, the Government has approved an amendment to the regime of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, estimating the Government to reduce the prices of natural gas to consumers between 3 % and 5 % over the next three years, with effect from April this year. This rate will be charged to the electricity, natural gas and oil sectors as well as to the activities of their value chains – explains the communiqué issued by the Council of Ministers. This well demonstrates the concern that this Government has for those who are most vulnerable and who, at the moment, most need our support. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my second speech, I will put aside some of the honourable Members' considerations. Ladies and gentlemen who have understood to speak, to speak, to speak. To speak so as not to focus on the essential point of this debate. And the essential point of this debate is this: we want to be a rule of law, a democratic state which has in its laws the humanist principle that a poor person cannot be deprived of essential goods. Are we in favor or against? That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u84	This is the point under discussion here. It's not bluff, it's not blackmail, it's not Greece, it's not this, nor that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u85	I'm glad it's not Greece!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u86	It's Loures and Odivelas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u87	What is at stake here is a humanist principle that must be enshrined in the laws of our country. And this Parliament says 'yes' or 'no' to the poorest families that can be deprived of electricity, water and gas in winter, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Yes or no? Or he says, that can't happen. This, in fact, Mrs. Members, if you will allow me, like what happens in other countries of the European Union. Just go to France and see what's going on. We're not asking for anything extraordinary. In fact, I am very surprised that Mrs Hortense Martins, particularly the Socialist Party, will return and return to the text to say that the social tariff, thus converging with the benches on the right, solves the problem. This is when we all know that the social tariff does not solve the problem — and I spoke about it in my initial intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u88	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u89	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the same tolerance, because I have to reply to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u90	Madam Member, we have no precedent in this matter. I ask everyone to make an effort to respect the times.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u91	I shall try to be absolutely quick, Mr. President. The social tariff — and I said it in my speech — is important and has its role. however, the social tariff does not solve the problem of tens of thousands of families arriving at the end of the month and do not pay water and electricity. And that's what we're talking about and not anything else. And by the way, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we talking about local power autonomy here? Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Members, but then you want to repeal Law No 23 / 96. If they invoke the principle of local autonomy, they want to repeal this Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u92	Don't confuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u93	Well, this has nothing to do with it! It is not worth talking here about matters that are not called here, nor is it worth doing demagogy about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u94	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u95	This bill—and we will return to it whenever necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members — the aim is to enshrine in Portuguese legislation a humanist principle: the poor cannot be without water and light in the middle of winter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u96	Of course not! And they don't stay!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u97	And you deny this possibility here. We deny her! And I am deeply sorry that the three sides have this negative position. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries on this agenda item.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u99	I ask the floor to speak to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u100	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u101	Mr President, it is to request the distribution of a document, which is a clarification by Mr. President of the City Council of Loures, sent to the left.net, precisely because of a matter referred to here today in several interventions because of the flow restriction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u102	It's on the Net!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u103	in this clarification, Mr. President of the City Council of Loures, former deputy Bernardino Soares, explains...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u104	He's on the Net, Mr. Deputy says.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u105	No, it was a clarification sent to left.net, where it is explained that the flow restrictor is an alternative to full cutting rather than water maintenance. Moreover, it is said that, in the pilot experience that took place in Loures, most non-compliant consumers have found ways to regularize the situation and have water in full again. contrary to what Mr CDS said, this is not an alternative to water maintenance, it is an alternative to water cutting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u106	Mr President, we are not going to turn the question into an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u107	The honourable Member addressed the CFP...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u108	It's in the left block bill! I didn't read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u109	...and I ask you to keep this clarification so you know what you're talking about. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u110	We have already been informed, sir. Let us now move on to the next point of our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 759 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills ( CAPC) ( The Greens) and 758 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills and ensures the cancellation of its effects ( CFP ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft law which aims to repeal the so-called "knowledge and skills assessment test", briefly the PAAC. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it may be important to reaffirm that teachers are already evaluated annually. Therefore, there is no lack of evaluation. More: teachers were evaluated during a good part of their training course as teachers. These teachers were recognized for their skills and skills for teaching. They have taken a course in higher education, in which they have subjected themselves to numerous tests, to numerous tests, to numerous tests in which they have obtained use. Because they had this use and also continued evaluation throughout this course, they therefore obtained the skills necessary for teaching. It appears that the Government has implemented this evidence in two hours that this entire course of action is called into question. Why? Because the true objective—and the proof is created, not only in its concept, but also in its content for that purpose—is to eliminate teachers! That is the real objective of the Ministry of Education's policies! We very much regret that the Ministry of Education, which should be the first to prestigious universities in this country, is the first to desecrate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can understand that the university system is not perfect, but, if it is not perfect, we must walk towards its improvement. We detect the mistakes and try to correct them and improve them always. It is not being beaten behind axes in the de-investment and in this invention of evaluations that have nothing to do with real assessments that walk in the right direction. However, it is not just us who say it. The IAVE itself (Instituto de Evaluación Educativa ) says that this evidence at no time assesses what is essential. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the Ministry is increasingly isolated in this area and therefore we believe that the right step is to take back this test and, therefore, to repudiate it. This is the proposal presented by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u115	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The so-called evidence of evaluation, created by the PS and implemented by the PSD/CDS government, with the obvious purpose of dismissing teachers, is not disconnected from the more general political option of dismantling public school and destruction of social functions of the State. This proof is no longer a mechanism of worsening precariousness, cutting wages and generalizing professional and family instability, thus weakening the public school itself as an instrument of individual and collective emancipation. The policy option of successive PS governments, PSD and CDS aims to degrade the working conditions of schools and fire teachers. It is the closing of schools, it is the increase in the number of students per class, it is the illegal recourse to precariousness to provide permanent needs, as seen in the perpetuation of teachers hired years and years on the line, whose uncertainty to continue to teach is constant and whose risk of going with the house on the back every year can be permanent. But for the government, this is not enough. Since the government wants to fire teachers, it prevents access to the profession, depending on the possibility of being a candidate for the performance of this test.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u118	The CFP rejects any evidence of career access, having over the years presented the right solution for the situation of the hired teachers, such as opening vacancies in competition, through a national list ordered by professional graduation, according to all the needs expressed by schools, for full hours that occur for three consecutive years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u120	The PSD/CDS government subject teachers to the test, when they are evaluated annually and many of them with 10 or more years of work. They devalue the initial training cycle, ignore the stage, within which teachers were scientifically and pedagogically evaluated and consequently approved, bringing into question the competence of higher education institutions that are responsible for teaching and scientific evaluation in the initial training of teachers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The objective of the test is clear when it is known that 8000 teachers who did not do so were excluded from the current PSD/CDS government's listings in this academic year. Today, the CFP proposes the repeal of this liquidated proof of access to the teaching career, as well as the annulment of its effects, ensuring that no teacher is penalized or harmed, for the purposes of tendering for placement, on the basis of this evidence. There is no public school of quality and for all without valued teachers, in appropriate number and with working conditions to ensure compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Isilda Aguincha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens and the CFP bring us today two initiatives aimed at the repeal of the CCAP. In fact, from the beginning we know that both the CFP and the Greens are against the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills, although in some cases they do not seem to realize that the CCP does not mean formative evaluation and does not mean performance evaluation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u123	So, what does that mean? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u124	PACC is a proof of access, it is a proof for those who want to enter the profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u125	I'm glad you said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u126	Mrs Rita Rato, I listened carefully, so I would like you to hear me too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u128	The Greens, like other political forces, take action against the CAPC, calling it exhilarating, but we do not. In addition, they accuse the government of launching a suspicion about the quality of public school and say that the CAPC constitutes an abusive limitation on access to public employment of teachers. Although the CFP and the Greens do not agree with this, the State, which we are all, is not obliged, nor is it obliged, to hire all. I repeat: the state, which is all of us, is not obliged to hire everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u129	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u130	This government has implemented a set of measures aimed at the credibility, qualification and demand of the public school, even with or without the smile of the Socialist Party, which once wanted the PACC, or other proof, and today no longer wants. In other words, as in the case of decentralization, they sometimes do not want and others do not want. Therefore, let us hear today what the Socialist Party has to say about the CAPC, which it has regulated, has instituted but has not implemented. The PCP has stated its total opposition to any evidence of career access, which is not new. As there is no novelty in the use of strong expressions such as ‘humble’ — he included this expression in his draft law on this matter. Humiliation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Are our children and young people — the men and women of tomorrow — not going to have access to a quality public school, the one we have all fought for? Valuing public school is credibility for teachers, which is imperative. And it is also imperative to think about now and, above all, think about the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u131	You haven't done that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u132	The CAPC, which results from such legal regulations of the Socialist Party, is proof of access to the profession, is proof that you contest but we assume. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u133	Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills, the subject of the bills under discussion, the PS has maintained a coherent and responsible attitude. Of course, and as an essential thesis, it puts capital sin in the wrong, hasty and poorly defined form, not to say canhestra—though we have already said so before—as the matter has been dealt with by this government. Do not take refuge in the excuse that the problem has been rooted and persists since 2007. Indeed, the PS Government has entered into law the said evidence. He did it, however, more as an element of a process of qualification and evaluation of teachers focused on school and in a context of teaching practice. Strengthening this aspect, changed the regulatory solution framework of the test to effectively link to professional performance. The current government, at the end of two and a half years of inertia, in which it did not heal to do the work of foundation, without seeking the involvement of the educational protagonists, came to impose, in its wake, a proof which, in its application matrix, became used for a different purpose than that for which it was originally created. Here we have the phenomenon that is only recognized by this majority as virtuous specimen, increasingly rooted in its assumptions and concrete implications, by teachers, their associations, training institutions, educational agents and, with a strengthening of destructive impact, by suspicious entities, such as the Scientific Council of the Institute of Educational Assessment and the Ombudsman. What is worse is that the terms in which this evidence has been applied, in absolute consequence, disintegrates a global and strategic project of training and qualification of teachers, establishing it as an isolated mechanism with its own and without more decisive character in preventing access to profession and employment. Everything regardless of the course the teacher made. And, if this journey had been of excellence, it would have been attested to an irreprehensible assessment in academia and in a work context in school. The proof, with a forced application, translates in the easiest way — but, in any case, inoperant — to try to solve problems identified in the system, such as the inexistence or ineffective regulation of the training provided by higher education institutions and how the process of recruitment of teachers is linked to bureaucracy and inadequacies. In contrast, the Socialist Party does not embark on simple solutions to ignore the problems and solve them by scanning them and forgetting them. Because this is the case and because we agree that everything needs to be done to ensure the quality of the teaching staff, it is necessary to have the discernment to finish—because, in substance, it has already been destroyed—with this proof that, as it is and with the bullshit it has grown up in, it does not serve the system and it is unfair. Even because the application of proof of this nature and its implications can never have a future without legitimacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u135	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u136	We need to go back to a serious and in-depth debate that has been going on since the beginning of 2007 and has never really been done. But for that, it is imperative that we end with the noise that the operating solutions of this government have brought about and which is an impediment to serenity in the debate and that the capricho, thesimism and obsession do not let happen. Finally, Mr President, saying the following: silence is required and this evidence is left in the drawer, at least as long as it is thought and placed in its strategy and globality, involving, in this act of thinking, the participation of the essential protagonists. If this test, as it is, does not prove, the test is rejected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u137	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of proof of assessment has already been discussed several times in the plenary. As such, I took advantage of and looked for the outcome of the first debate we had in this House on this issue. Except for some mistake on my part, it was in 2008 at a petition which subsequently joined a CFP initiative to repeal the legal regulation the existence of such evidence. at the time, Mr. João Bernardo of the Socialist Party said the following: «The evidence of the assessment of knowledge and competences(...) is an essential part in the realization of that political orientation» — the Socialist Party was government. He also said that « the assessment test is an important instrument which aims to ensure, in an equitable way, the effective exercise of teaching only to those who guarantee compliance with essential requirements of demand and quality ». Mr Agostinho Santa, these are much clearer words than those you tried to run away with today. We heard it for three and a half minutes, but we didn't understand what I meant. I shall also read the reply of the former Minister of Education, Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, sent to Parliament, concerning the petition which was being discussed at the time. He wrote: « The proof constitutes a form of guarantee of equity for all those who enter the teaching career, a form of guarantee of the quality of the teaching system, a form of guarantee of transparency and adequacy to the characteristics of the labour market and a form of guarantee of better preparation of the teaching body in the face of the new requirements that lie ahead». These are words, Mr Agostinho Santa, much clearer than those that have left us today. They'll ask the gentlemen. Members, with justice, what the CDS said on this subject in 2008. I shall then read statements by Mr Baptista, very illustrious Chairman of the Education Committee, also given in the same debate of the Plenary, held on 7 June 2008. Mr. Abel Baptista said the following: « Finally, draft law No. 484 / X, submitted by the Communist Party of Portugal, does not deserve our favourable vote nor our agreement, because the CDS believes that a test must be carried out by those who in the future wish to have access to careers, such as what already happens for access to other careers of higher education in public service, in another type of profession». I mean, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS, in the opposition, led the reprobation of the evidence, as it will do again here tomorrow, and said exactly how important it was. On the other hand, we had the Socialist Party which, when in the government, was very convinced of the good will and the fundamental need of this proof and now, in the opposition, made this choice skillful. The honourable Member would certainly pass all the evidence! Finally, I would also like to say the following: it is a very lazy argument to consider that such evidence serves to eliminate or remove teachers from the system. It is certainly not the number, despite everything, of teachers who do not get evaluation in this test that will solve the problem of entry of teachers into the career. This problem is, above all, demographic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u139	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u140	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, this problem is, above all, demographic, a problem that will be accentuated in the coming years with more reformed teachers and fewer students in schools. What we think this evidence should mean — and with this end — is also a very deep reflection on the initial training of teachers and what higher education institutions, within their autonomy — and this is close to the government — can do in this place to ensure that we train teachers with the highest quality possible. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u141	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has already shown more than once initiatives to revoke this so-called " career entry" test for hired teachers. We see no reason to change position. at this moment, we have two new elements in relation to previous debates: one of them is the Scientific Council of the IAVE, of the Institute of Educational Assessment, which came to the conclusion that the proof does not have instrumental value, characteristic of professional entry, because it is indifferent, has no object to do with the teaching profession. Secondly, we have the Ombudsman's report which considers that there is an illegality in the exclusion of tenders for the extraordinary linkage of all those teachers who either fail to prove or have rejected the evidence were not opponents of this invitation to tender. So here comes a few sequels. One of them, on the legal issue, is that, long after Nuno Crato left on 5 October, which he has not yet imploded, there will be court rulings to redeploy teachers and, therefore, there is a small bureaucratic hell, as a result of this obstinacy and theimosia of the Minister of Education. On the other hand, in relation to aspects that have come to be the subject of campaign — the mistakes of Portuguese, the inability to conjugate verbs, the futility of the use of the cedilla and all that has been absolutely defamatory of the generality of the teaching class — we agree, it is overwhelming to the dignity of the teachers generality. But this leads to another debate for which the Left Block has always been available, which is the quality of initial teacher training. The Left Block has always been available for that. Now, it is not to reproduce these punitive evidences and this "examination" of Minister Nuno Crato whether with students or teachers. This evidence helps nothing, this evidence created a huge misunderstanding in the educational community, created embarrassment, created a humiliation, created anything that is atrocious injustice and even a difficulty in reconciling many sectors of the educational community today. Therefore, for the sake of this community, for the sake of education, for the sake of teacher training, we hope that both Minister Nuno Crato and quickly will leave the way. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u143	For a second intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If, in fact, PSD and CDS were really concerned about the quality of teaching they would have voted in favour of the proposals put forward very recently by the CFP on the initial training of teachers discussed here in plenary of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u146	As for the fact that the CFP has already brought this matter to discussion in plenary, I must say that the CFP will bring this matter as often as necessary. The struggle waged by teachers for the revocation of this test is very fair. Mr President, we do not forget who created the evidence, but we also have responsibility for who applies it and who insists on implementing it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u148	Member of the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u149	Mrs. Deputy has a name!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u150	... although the PSD recognized here that this is a proof of access, it soon aims to eliminate teachers. We're not talking about candidates for teachers, we're talking about teachers, some with more than 10 years of work. This evidence is a roadmap for the unemployment of thousands of teachers who have served the public school and need the public school. There are no more teachers in public school; the more this government and these policies and the appreciation of public school pass through the appreciation of its professionals, the appreciation of teachers and the fight against the precariousness of teachers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u151	For a second intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we say that the central objective of the Ministry of Education may be to fire teachers, we know what we are saying. And reality proves it. Mrs Isilda Aguincha, through the increase in the number of students per class, through mega-groupings, through the curriculum review, were largely 25 000 teachers on the street with this government. Does this number send you anything, Your Honor? I think it's a completely sentient education policy. Instead of betting on the quality of our teaching, on improving our public school, on the involvement of all actors for all to compete for this goal, we have the Ministry of Education to give macadamadas for all that is on the side, mainly to teachers. It is saying good-bye, good-bye... These are numbers and numbers in the head... i.e. commanded by the Ministry of Finance. Madam Member, we have no policy for education in Portugal, we only have policy for taxes and policy for dismissal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u154	That's why we're breaking this country. The honourable Member said the following, and I am going to quote her: "They say it is an exhilarating proof. Not us! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Madam Member, this is not an issue of opinion. Look, Mrs. Member, in case you answered that way, you were plunged into the PACC, you see? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u155	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u156	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Deputy, of course, the evidence is exhilarating, as it eliminates the possibility of people entering the career. That's what she's for. Or hasn't the honourable Member given that yet? Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: the honourable Member had the courage to come here and say that the Ministry of Education or the evidence, I did not understand very well, wants to credible the teachers. Look, you should have lifted your finger when you heard in the Education Committee that you could not admit teachers who made 20 mistakes in a sentence.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u157	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u158	I would like to know if the honourable Member is able to repeat this statement. This is bullying the teachers! And teachers don't deserve that, they deserve dignity. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u160	Mrs. Isilda Aguincha...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u161	Mr. President, that is overthrowing the rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u162	Mrs. Members, let us then move to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 347 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), with the title We will not allow the destruction of the CGA! , requesting the Assembly of the Republic to conduct an audit, supervised by the Court of Auditors, to the General Board of Appeals in order to ascertain responsibilities and to find solutions for their sustainability. Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u163	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: I would first of all like to welcome all those who, in the context of the civic exercise of the right of petition, have mobilized themselves and allowed this debate on a structural issue for the sustainability of our public finances and, consequently, for the future of our country. The sustainability of the General Pension Fund is truly an issue of absolute importance and must be treated as a matter of regime. in this sense, it is essential to mention the efforts that the Government supported by this majority has made to ensure the sustainability of social protection regimes. I also recall that Law No. 11 / 2014 of 6 March, which established the mechanisms for convergence of the social protection regime of the public service with the general social security regime, was the subject of marked analysis and maturation. They also point out that the unsustainability of this system is very old and is closely linked to demographic factors. The amendment of these factors is something that this Government is committed to changing, hence the measures recently taken with regard to support for birth and support for the family. It could also address the issues related to the existence of significant differences between the rates of contribution to the General Pension Fund and those of the general social security scheme, as well as the existence of special legislation—and I say special legislation— which was negotiated with the unions in relation to retirement of less than the age requirement for the generality of pensioners. These issues are public and too well known. however, I would like to point out again that the central issue is perfectly identified. As a people and community of free men and women, do we want to implement and develop a modern and sustained system capable of responding to the needs of the Portuguese in the long term, or do we want to bet on a dated and immobilist system that threatens the future of all of us? I believe that the government's choice is the one that best serves the interests of our public finances,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u164	of public finances, it is not of public service, because of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u165	...of the subscribers of this system and, above all, of the Portuguese people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome this initiative, as well as FENPROF as the first subscriber to this petition. This petition with 5915 signatures entered the Assembly of the Republic in March 2014, is being debated in plenary almost a year later, which, of course, removes in great measure the current debate. But, of all the matters dealt with in the petition, there is one aspect that the PS would like to resume in this debate: the convergence of the pension system. First of all, despite the various warnings of the Socialist Party, the Government insisted on considering in the law permanent retroactive cuts in pensions in the General Pension Fund already allocated. The Socialist Party said here, in this House, that this law was wounded in death by seriously paying attention to the foundations of our rule of law. The Constitutional Court has decided precisely in the light of the PS's warnings. He decided against the rule clearly, unequivocally and unanimously. Secondly, despite having to drop the retroactive cuts in the CGA pensions, the Government has moved in calculating the pensions of this system and has created a situation in which workers and workers with the lowest salaries in the Public Administration will have lower pensions than those of the general scheme for equivalent careers. The majority said in the debate of the convergence law that this statement was not true. Today, having workers and workers with reforms calculated on the basis of this new law, it was essential that the Government could tell us, on the basis of the concrete reality, whether or not there are workers and workers of the Public Administration, with exactly the same time of discounts of workers and workers of the private sector, with lower reforms. We want to know, we want to confirm, we want to confront reality! Thirdly, the Socialist Party liked to have information about what happened to the demands of workers and workers who had already demanded reform, but who had not yet been deposed when the convergence law came into force. What rules have they been set aside? With those of the previous law or with those of the new law? Because I would also like to remind you that the PS proposed in the debate on the law of convergence that the requests already entered could be deferred on the basis of the previous law. It was of the most elementary justice, but we were always left unanswered by the majority. The Socialist Party continues to say that it is in favour of the convergence of pension systems, but it is in favour of true convergence and not of divergent convergence. We will always be against processes that pursue ways that do not seek justice and equity, that do not seek true convergence or that systematically seek to converge in what is worse and weaken the Public Administration and the workers working for the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u168	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am also beginning to welcome the petitioners and, in respect of them, I refer precisely to the one who is the subject of this petition, as stated in the second line of the petition, where it is said that the signatories are concerned about the future of the CGA and the pensions for which they have discounted throughout their working life. It is clear that the CDS not only fully respects the signatories and all the public officials and beneficiaries of the CGA, who for it have discounted, as well as fully respects their right to pension, the right, which they have constituted and acquired through the discounts they have made and a life of work and dedication to the Public Administration. So, what matters is that we focus essentially on: do these workers have their rights in danger? The right to your pension in danger? The right to your discount in danger? The right to rest, supported in the pension for which they worked their whole life? And the answer, on the part of the CDS, is: of course not and, on what depends on the CDS, this position will always be defended. We would like to say that, in relation to this petition and to two points which appear on it, there are some corrections to be made. First, it is said that in the period of governance between 2005 and 2013 the PSD/CDS governments pushed for retirement about 90 000 workers, but I would like to recall that from 2005 to June 2011 the Government was of the Socialist Party, it was not this majority and it was obviously not part of the CDS. I would also like to correct the following: they speak in the pension funds of workers who, in the case of the CTT and the UNB, were used to pay the deficit, but this transfer of pension funds began in 1996, immediately after the first Socialist Government took possession of the nearly 16 years we had followed, and it is true, as is stated in the petition, that the funds originally transferred by the Socialist Government — from the CTT, Macau, from the UNB — have exhausted its provision and have ceased to be able to meet the payment needs of the pensions of its beneficiaries. But with this government — and here I refer you to the Court of Auditors' own report — these needs were met not by the CGA, but by the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u170	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u171	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, this was a measure of this government, precisely to leave intact the rights of the pensioners of the CGA. I would end by saying the following: Above all, the concern is to ensure that the rights of the discounter remain intact...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u172	Oh, is it? Oh, my God! So why do they cut? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u173	... and the convergence of pensions does not affect those rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u174	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u175	It is clear, and Mrs. Catarina Marcelino has focused on a specific, specific and minority case, that no law is perfect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u176	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. The law of convergence is a good law, but of course, if that law has faults, if it has parts that can be amended or corrected, we will be here to accept them and to propose their corrections. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u178	Mr Jorge Machado also spoke for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to start by greeting FenPROF and its associates by the petition submitted, entitled We will not allow the destruction of the CGA! You've collected about 6,000 signatures. in this petition, FENPROF and its petitioners expressed concern about the future of the CGA and the pensions that they discounted throughout their working life. They invoke two fundamental arguments: first, the General Board of Submissions was decapitalized for many years, by several PS, PSD and CDS governments, because the Government did not make the discounts it should have made for the General Board of Submissions, and this is absolutely true, there is a political responsibility of the PS, PSD and CDS-PP ; second, the General Board of Submissions is currently a closed system, as no worker could register from 2005 onwards,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u180	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u181	... which is a truth and, Mrs. Catarina Marcelino, responsible both the PS, the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u182	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u183	... that have closed the General Deposit Box system, and this, yes, is cause for concern about its sustainability. But he adds one argument, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva : is that the unsustainability factor is not the demographic factor, as I said here; what is the unsustenability factor is not only closing the system, but also firing workers from the Public Administration. If the PSD/CDS-PP government were not to deal with this matter, it would not fire workers, it would, of course, be making a good contribution to the financial sustainability of the General Board of Appeals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u184	For the PCP it was clear that threats to the CGA arise from policy options of PS, PSD and CDS. It was clear that it was neither the workers nor the current reformed CGA who are responsible for the situation in which we are in, so it is illegitimate and immoral to cut off in pensions that the PSD/CDS government has promoted and promoted. In fact, we want to add another information here: there are only no more cuts because of the Constitutional Court's decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u185	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u186	If it depended on the political will of the PSD and CDS-PP today, we would have more people with cuts and cuts with greater amplitude in what is people's pension.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u188	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u189	The petitioners request an audit by the Court of Auditors to the CGA, on the one hand, to determine responsibilities and, on the other, to find solutions. We agree and point out that the solution for the CGA is to find measures that do not penalise those who work. It is unacceptable and immoral to blame the workers for the situation in which we find ourselves. More: we say that the General Pension Fund and pension systems in general in Portugal are not unsustainable, unsustainable are, yes, the political options of PSD, PS and CDS, which have run our country over 38 years. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u190	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A greeting to the petitioners, to FenPROF, who has stimulated this petition signed by thousands of workers and employees of the General Appeals Board. I believe that the object of the petition is current, even because the problems with the General Box of Submissions are not solved and are far from solved. And they happened exactly for the reasons that the petition points, that were three. First of all, the decapitalisation of the General Board of Appeals. For years and years, the parent State did not place the funds required by the private employers in the General Staff Board and therefore there was a clear decapitalisation. Secondly, the circumstances of the CGA become a closed regime without allowing new subscribers to become part of it. Thirdly, because they used the pension fund to mask the goals of the deficit, as they will well remember. For this reason, the issue is current, since measures are needed to solve the problem of future pensioners. I would also say to Mr Carlos Santos Silva that there are no demographic factors involved. Look, if you notice what Mr. Secretary of State answered, when asked three times by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration to rule on this petition, you will find that it was exactly the Secretary of State at that time that we are all reminded of bad memories, Hélder Rosalino, who told us that one of the problems for this situation of the CGA is the maturation of the system, the very generous replacement rates and the conditions for recognition of rights equally very favourable. What does that mean? In other words, in the view of the government, in your view, the fairly high pensions are the problem, which is in line with your defense to lower the pensions more and more. This is the real problem and it is in the reply of the Secretary of State. Now, what I think this Parliament and this government have an obligation to discuss is to put an end to this closed system of the General Pension Fund, which has nothing to do with what you here want us to believe in, in order to make the pensions harmonious, convergent — nothing like that! — because it is clear that today pensioners from the General Pension Fund, with identical careers, receive lower pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u192	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. The burden of the destruction of the General Pension Fund is on the side of successive governments that over the years have done everything to put an end to this pension scheme. For this reason, the petition is very current, the petitioners are right and it is up to the State to assume, guarantee and honour the commitments it has made with the people, because their pension scheme was an integral part of the employment contract they have signed with the State, and that is the disrespect that you have also guaranteed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u194	Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor for a brief speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: to the leftmost parties in this Parliament, the Left Block and the CFP, I just have to say that I think that demography and birth are not subjects that influence the sustainability of pension systems is ridiculous and I think that not even the Members of your benches can make you understand this issue. Mrs Catarina Marcelino, I will read you a passage from someone of great importance in the Socialist Party who in 2006 told us the following: "This is a reform which the difficult state of public finances imposes, that the financial support of social security systems, in the medium and long term, demands and that principles of equity and relative justice in the treatment that must be given to all Portuguese workers inspire. This is a reform that has been planned for so many years and has been announced for so long. Finally, there was the courage needed for its formulation and presentation».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u196	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u197	It was Mr. Minister of State and Finance, together with Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Solidarity, Mr. Vieira da Silva, who spoke these words, the same words that were brought here by this government, when we discussed this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u198	I'm subscribing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u199	Finally, Mr President, even to conclude, I would like to tell the petitioners that this Government is doing everything and will continue to do everything in order to ensure the rates of contribution sufficient for us to continue paying and returning pensions from the General Pension Fund in the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move to the last point of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 411 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Prisoner Support Association ( APA ), asking the Assembly of the Republic for the approval of an amnesty law and for forgiveness of sentences. For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group is always pleased when citizens exercise the right of petition, a universal and constitutionally envisaged right, moreover, one of the oldest fundamental rights of citizens vis-à-vis political power. We understand that this and other matters, when subject to hearing, are important, as these initiatives translate into what we consider an opportunity here, in the House of the Republic, to open the doors to debate and reflection on matters such as this, to the adoption of a law of amnesty and forgiveness of sentences. Knowing that amnesty and generic forgiveness are causes of the extinction of criminal responsibility, and that amnesty extinguishes the criminal procedure and, in the event of condemnation, ceases the execution of both the penalty and its effects, as well as the measure of detention, and that generic forgiveness extinguishes the penalty in whole or in part, it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to grant general amnesty and forgiveness. So, and in this way, I also use it to greet the petitioners, who, in fact, had the opportunity to hear. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the situation of the prisoner prevents a citizen from being restricted from the point of view of some of the most relevant rights, such as the right to freedom of expression. This petition therefore does not cease to be the living image of this ability to think and of that ability to act and, therefore, from the outset, if there is no other reason, we welcome this initiative precisely because it allows that same freedom. with regard to the content of the petition concerned, its object, as well as its concerns or claims that are added on the grounds contained therein—it is always said that the separation of powers imposes full respect for the exercise of the judiciary and especially for an area as sensitive as that of the criminal area—history demonstrates precisely that special moments or exceptional circumstances may determine a serene reflection of the political and legislative power on these matters. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD again welcomes the initiative of the petitioners, whose concerns will not cease to deserve, first and foremost, an internal and enlarged debate with our best attention. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u202	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party welcomes the petitioners and also the Portuguese Prisoner Support Association, which has driven this initiative, which in fact brings to the political debate the situation of prisoners in Portugal. We know what is at stake in this petition and recognize the opportunity for its enforceability. We do not know whether or not we will have the conditions to respond to what is requested, and we can and should do the debate on not only the meaning of the proposal, but above all to take advantage of this opportunity and put a debate on our prisons on the table. There's a data we need to reflect on. It is up to this Assembly of the Republic to look at figures that are of concern: since 2008, the crime involved has decreased in Portugal ; since 2008, the number of sentences in the first instance has decreased in Portugal ; since 2008, the prison population has increased in Portugal, in particular the prison population serving imprisonment for up to three years, and the 2007 reform has certainly aimed to reduce the number of prisoners serving effective prison sentences for less than five years. In other words, the crime involved decreases, the conviction in the first instance decreases, but the number of inmates has increased and from 2008 to 2013 has increased by around 25%. We have to look at these numbers and know why we have a large number of prisoners in Portugal, we have to look at the conditions they are in today and in this debate we should reflect on what the petitioners have brought us here. We need to make this debate a broad debate on the situation in which the prison population is now in Portugal and also look at this reality which basically reflects what is happening today in our justice system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u204	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming the petitioners and their initiative on behalf of the CFP bench, which represented a huge effort to collect signatures, asking this House to consider granting an amnesty and a general pardon for penalties. This petition was motivated, at the time it was presented, by the passage of the fortieth anniversary of April 25. We believe that the granting of amnesty and generic forgiveness should be seen as a measure of clemency and, in fact, associated with a relevant civic motivation. I remember amnesty at the first visit of Pope John Paul II to Portugal and also by birthdays of April 25. We therefore believe that these are measures that, from our point of view, should not be taken to solve problems in the prison system. The problem should not be viewed as « the chains are overcrowded and, as this must be resolved, we will solve it with amnesty and forgiveness of sentences ». It's not like that. The problems of the prison system must be addressed regardless of any measure of clemency. This is the issue, and it must be viewed as such. We know that in Portugal a climate that has not been favourable to the granting of amnesty has been created in public opinion. For 15 years there has been no amnesty in Portugal and it is not normal to have such a large temporal hiatus without a measure of mercy adopted by the legislative body. We cannot ignore this situation, but for this they have contributed a number of factors, such as the populist discourse to consider the arrest of the police and the deputies to release and, also, the speech of the right parliament - it must be said. We believe that there may be conditions in Portuguese society today so that this debate can be resumed in its exact terms. The proposers have brought to this House a concrete proposal for articulated which, from our point of view, is technically well constructed and contains solutions that are reasonable, excluding certain types of crime from any amnesty, including crimes related to corruption, economic and financial activity, and deciding above all for crimes of lesser gravity. We understand that it is worth thinking on this issue. I would like to express the willingness of the CFP to contribute to a consensus on this matter. Our position is very clear: if there is any opposition by some political force in this House to the granting of amnesty, it will certainly not be granted, but it will not be for us that consensus will be inviolable. I therefore express our willingness to be able to discuss with all political forces if there are conditions for consensus to grant an amnesty in the exact terms in which it is agreed, not in abstract, but in concrete, based on the articulate. If such a consensus can be obtained, I believe that it will be a cause of satisfaction, if such consensus cannot be obtained, it will not be obtained and the petitioners' claim will not be met. from our point of view, it is worth making this effort. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u206	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u207	Mr President : On behalf of the CDS-PP, I would like to congratulate the EPAR ( Portuguese Prisoner Support Association ) and the petitioners who, as has been said here, and well, by Mrs Andreia Neto and Mr António Filipe, have made an important effort and a proposal on which this House should reflect and consider. The main arguments in this proposal for amnesty and for generic forgiveness of sentences are — and this has also been said during the debate — basically two. The first relates to the fact that there has been no amnesty for about 15 years now and that, if you have interrupted, so to speak, a culture that Mr. Mr António Filipe has now made reference, which was that, during several events, we have always had—and for many years— amnesty laws. That is, at the anniversary celebration of April 25th and at the coming to Portugal of a Pope we had laws of amnesty and generic forgiveness of sentences. We are obviously unable to be more — very sensitive not only to the celebrations of 25 April, but in particular to any coming of His Holiness to our country, we do not honestly think that this is the basis for presenting or approving a law of amnesty or forgiveness of punishment. The other argument in this proposal is powerful and, from our point of view, it is a good reason to be, although once again this is not the answer, which is the problem of overcrowding the chains. We all know that there is overcrowding of chains. The gentlemen. Members have made regular visits to chains — not as regular as they could be — where they have become aware of this problem. This issue, together with the enforcement of penalties in Portugal, is also a problem. We do not think that the answer is an amnesty or a generic forgiveness of sentences. For the problem of overcrowding the chains and for the problem of the bad conditions in our chains, on which several associations, among which the petition brings today, have worked and accompanied, the answer must be another. There must be an investment response, which the government is committed to do; there must be an improvement in chain conditions; there must be an answer in the sense of greater humanization in our chains. Amnesty cannot be the answer, which obviously also has a political reading. I think that, in the face of the penalties that are being met with the rules that exist and before convictions, it is very simple to say that they are those, which is populism... No, we must not have a culture other than that which is the existing judicial culture, which is a culture of rigour. It is this culture of rigour that has to be applied and no other. Within this logic of rigour, those who defend amnesty say 'good, for serious crimes does not apply'. We are now excluding, at the outset, regardless of what we consider serious, a wide range of crimes. If it does not apply to serious crimes...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u208	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u209	I will finish, Mr. President. If it does not apply to serious crimes, the so-called "criminal bags" remain. But for this we have other solutions: suspension of penalty, electronic bracelet, work for the community, which can and should be extended and more used. That is, there are other ways. Nor is it true that there have been no measures of clemency. We had 65 presidential pardons. There is therefore a real concern about which we are willing to think. We do not follow the solution that the path is an amnesty or a generic forgiveness of sentences, but other paths that can be followed to humanize the situation in prisons. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u210	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the petitioners and the work of the Portuguese Prison Support Association, which has brought us a concrete proposal for amnesty and forgiveness of sentences, invoking some arguments that justify a serious debate. First, they present a relevant historical argument, since the 40th anniversary of 25 April was invoked, which is not a minor date. Secondly, they present some reasons that we cannot ignore: that reduces crime in Portugal, but that the number of prisoners is constantly increasing ; that Portuguese prisons are far from having the necessary conditions for the dignity of these people. in this sense, the Association presents a concrete proposal, attempting or proposing to extend what was the last amnesty enshrined in the 1999 law, as we well know, and indeed extending it. It is true that the law of 1999 was more restrictive, excluding from its scope some crimes against people, such as murder crimes, sexual crimes, sexual abuse of minors, among other matters. The debate that we are having today, however, is about the demands that are placed on the State in relation to the resocialization and dignity of this population. We also understand that there should be no facilitating solution, that is, because the chains are full an amnesty is now needed — this is not the serious debate that needs to be debated. however, we know that it increases the number of inmates for minor crimes, for baggage, particularly for non-compliance with fines. Now, this is a matter that is worth serious discussion. I would like to remind you that in all the revisions of the Penal Code, the Left Block has always been on the side of extending alternative measures to prison. from our point of view, this is a debate to be held with all seriousness, it is an open debate, it is an evaluation that must be made and that, politically speaking, is beyond our strengths. This debate will, however, be assured that it requires, in terms of social awareness, maturity consistent with the proposal we are discussing today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u212	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to greet the thousands and thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, by which they request the approval of a law of amnesty and forgiveness of sentences. This greeting also extends, of course, to the Portuguese Prison Support Association, which was involved in the dynamization of this petition, bringing together about 15 000 subscribers. In fact, and as mentioned in the text accompanying this petition, Portugal, even if it is the country with the lowest crime rate in Europe, is at the same time not only the country with the highest number of prisoners per capita as well as the country where the penalties actually met are the highest. The petitioners, moreover, still draw attention to an element that seems to us to be of some relevance in this discussion and that, although we see it should not be the reason to grant amnesty, it gains some relevance, even because it has to do with the way the penalties are fulfilled in our country. As the petitioners point out, in our country penalties are met in a far more serious way than that which the law itself establishes. To this end, several factors are involved: the overcrowding of prisons; the state of degradation in which many of these prisons are located; poor quality of food and medical care; the difficulties that prisoners often face to have access to legal support; and the lack of capacity of education and social reintegration services with regard to desirable efficient rehabilitation. As I said recently, of course, these are not the reasons that must preside over an amnesty, but they gain some relevance because they have to do with how the penalties are met in our country. Finally, they remind the petitioners that the last law of generic forgiveness and amnesty has been passed for more than 15 years, which eventually places our country as one of the European countries that has been without any measure of this kind towards the prisoners for more years. These are also the reasons why The Greens follow the concerns and objectives of the petitioners and also of the Portuguese Prison Support Association. Since this is a competence of the Assembly of the Republic, the Greens take advantage of it to express their willingness to debate, together with the other parliamentary groups, on this subject, in particular on the conditions of our prison establishments, and also to seek a consensus solution that can globally meet the demands and objectives expressed today in this petition, or at least to approach them, until on the basis of the proposal that the APA has brought to the Assembly of the Republic and to the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-29.u215	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further entries, we have concluded the last point on our agenda and thus our work today. We will meet again tomorrow, 30 January, at 10 a.m., on the agenda for the fiftieth anniversary debate with the Prime Minister on matters of political, economic and social relevance. At the end of the debate there will be scheduled votes. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 28 minutes.]]
