ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u1	Mrs. Members, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Solidarity and Social Security, Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. Today, we don't have a reading file, so I ask you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to start our work. The first item on the agenda consists of a current debate required by the CFP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, to debate and question the Government about its responsibilities in the significant increase in poverty in our country. The debate will be opened by the initiative party, in this case the CFP. To open the debate, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : 2, 7 million Portuguese in poverty. This is the result of the options of this government and its right-wing policy, and the « good results » of the PSD / CDS government. Well the PSD/CDS government may falsely claim that unemployment has decreased, when today we have many more unemployed than in 2011. Well, they can say that they have regained the sovereignty of the country while they continue to hand over the country abroad. Well they can talk about economic recovery as the national economy sinks. The truth is that the data recently released by the INE demonstrate the harsh reality that the Portuguese face and the consequences of the right-wing policy and options of this government. Hunger, social exclusion and poverty have increased in a loud way in our country. The INE data also prove that the Prime Minister lied when he claimed that austerity had hit the rich more than the poor. With this government, the poor are increasingly poor and the rich are getting richer. And the Prime Minister's statement that the 2013 INE data "do not reflect the current situation" is a mistake, because he knows very well that the reality of 2014 and 2015 is no better, because what has changed has changed to worse. As we have repeatedly stated, the consequences of the political options of the PEC and the troika, especially this PSD/CDS government, with cuts in wages, reforms, social benefits, the gigantic increase in taxes on those who work and the attack on public services, could only lead to an unprecedented worsening of poverty in our country. The data show that this PSD/CDS government is writing one of the blackest pages of our history and causing the worst worsening of poverty in our country, since fascism. The data disclosed by the INE, resulting from the survey on the living conditions and incomes of Portuguese for the year 2013, make it clear that poverty in our country does not increase, nor does it increase injustice in the distribution of national wealth. According to INE, the risk of poverty increased significantly in 2013, reaching the highest value since these investigations were carried out. Thus, the risk of poverty in 2013 reached 19, 5 %, i.e. about 2 million Portuguese were poor in 2013. But as the INE also points out, if the effect of the generalized lowering of Portuguese incomes is corrected, then we conclude that they are effectively at risk of poverty 25, 9 %, i.e. about 2, 7 million Portuguese. In just three years, the PSD and CDS have shot more than 629 000 people into poverty. If we join in the three years of the PSD/CDS government in 2010 — the responsibility of the Socialist Party — then we have 808 000 people shot at poverty as a result of the CFPs and the national and foreign Troikas. But more: INE reports that 40, 5 % of the unemployed are at risk of poverty and 10, 7% of the workers, even working, are poor. Alarming are also the data of the risk of poverty between children and young people, which reached 25, 6%, and of poverty among women, who fired. Finally, among other data, INE notes that in 2013 the gap between the rich and the poor has worsened. in fact, in 2013, 10 % of the richest in our country won 11, 1 times more than 10 % of the poorest; in 2012, they won 10, 7 times more ; and in 2010, they won 9, 4 times more. It is thus proven that, year after year, injustice in the distribution of wealth increases and our country is increasingly unfair and unequal. Today, 50% of national wealth is in the hands of only 5% of the population. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, while poverty grows in an obscene way, the rich are getting richer, demonstrating the real government programme: impoverishing millions to fatten the pockets of half a dozen. in fact, the millionaires, the economic groups, those who fatten at the expense of the exploitation and poverty of the workers, they, yes, have reason to, with the government, shoot rockets and speak in success. And it is clear why: 2013 was the largest year of poverty but it was also the year of 7.5 million guaranteed to the bank, 7 million in debt interest, 850 million in PPP, 1008 million in swap and large millions of euros in tax benefits, based on IRC. It was also the year of less taxes and more business at the expense of dismantling the state and public services; changes to labour legislation to promote the exploitation of workers and thus increase profits, at the expense of those working. These are the false'sacrifices' that multi-millionaires and economic groups do, while workers impoverish. Thus, in 2013, in the same year that poverty grew significantly, the main economic groups recorded obscene profits: EDP — 1005 million; Portucel — 210 million; BES — 517 million; Galp — 310 million; Sonae — 319 million; Jerónimo Martins Group — 382 million. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: contrary to what PSD and CDS say, the country is no better. The country is not nor can it be confused with half a dozen economic groups or a handful of people who have seen their fortunes increase. The country is the Portuguese and they live today much worse. from here we denounce that the increase of half a dozen fortunes depends on the misery of many millions and the government deliberately promotes a strategy to concentrate national wealth. from here we reaffirm that the government has not solved any of the problems in the country. The country is more indebted, produces less wealth than before entry into the euro, unemployment and emigration are a social scourge and we have never had, since fascism, as many poor as now. from here we reaffirm that there are solutions: reducing the deficit and debt due to economic growth and not because of the hunger and misery of our people. It is possible to seek wealth where it is accumulated in an obscene way. It is possible to build a society that fairly distributes wealth created and thus effectively combat poverty and social exclusion. These are the solutions proposed by the CFP for the country, solutions that project the April values in the future of Portugal for which we continue to fight. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[During the intervention, Images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u3	The Bureau is waiting for Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of poverty must be dealt with seriously. That is how people who are afflicted with poverty and the respect they deserve us. Let us then take it seriously and not propagandisticly. Let's do a little review of what poverty is in recent times in Portugal. Between 2007 and 2010, at the time of the Socialist Government and as the Socialist Government was negotiating PPPs, it was negotiating swaps, indebted astronomically to the country, hiding and without the Portuguese knowing it, poverty in Portugal rose by 3, 4 %. In 2011 the Minister of Finance of the Socialist Government, possibly because he no longer held the weight in conscience, came to confess what the Socialist Party was hiding, i.e. that the country was failing to say: "We are indebted to the marrow, we have no credit, we need external help". They then negotiated a Memorandum of Understanding, a very long-term assistance programme that imposed gross cuts and enormous sacrifices on the Portuguese. In June 2011, this was the government that we received: failure, with this very hard programme, close to 1 million unemployed, an economic and social disaster, a country on the brink of ruin. Aware of this, this Government has taken emergency social measures: it immediately disengaged minimum, social and rural pensions; it has allocated the right of access to unemployment benefit to whom it has never been entitled, i.e. to self-employed and traders; it has reduced to 12 months the discount period necessary to access the unemployment benefit; it has created the social lease market, which has already benefited more than 600 families; it has changed the rules of the family allowance, having already enabled more than 60 000 families to benefit from this change; it has created the social emergency plan; it has created more than 850 social canteens; it has increased the value of the unemployment allowance for unemployed couples; it has created the social rate for energy and transport; it has increased the transfers to social benefits and the value of these families every year, as well as the value of the support to social solidarity institutions, the partner in the government's field in support for the most needy; it has created the social rate for the first year of bankruptcy, the first half of these, has reached its poverty, 7 % of them. It is true that the Government achieved, with the measures it took, with its social caution, that between 2011 and 2013 the worsening of the poverty index was only one tenth of what it had been between 2007 and 2010 during the socialist governance and the alleged period of the « fat cows», proclaimed then by the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u6	It was achieved by the government that the poverty index in 2013 in the worst year of this recession, before social benefits, would always go near the European average and not get worse beyond that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u7	Moreover, in a time of crisis and restraint, in 2013 the Government managed to reduce the risk of poverty in Portugal by direct action, by 28 %. Moreover: in a time of great difficulties, the government managed to maintain the risk of poverty on the European average in lower values than countries such as Spain or Italy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u8	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u9	however, the current reality is different from 2013. In 2014, we are growing in all sectors, creating 231,000 new jobs and reducing the unemployment rate to values that have never occurred in this decade. To conclude, I would like to say the following: we are going to talk about poverty, but we are going to speak seriously, and that the Portuguese have the conviction and hope, as we have, that in 2014 we already live a very different reality than in 2013. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u10	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u11	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u12	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u13	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u14	Mr President, I would like to address this question following Mr Artur Rêgo's speech on the CDS. The honourable Member said that in the governments of the Socialist Party the rate of poverty, although he did not say what the indicator he was referring to, has always increased. As such, I would like it to be distributed in the plenary—and I would ask the support of the President for this—the data from PORDATA, and anyone can consult them on the website of this database, on the rate of risk of poverty, either after transfers of pensions or after social transfers. In doing so, it will prove that Mr Artur Rêgo's statement is no less than false. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u15	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u16	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u17	Madam President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau only to clarify that I spoke about the poverty rate before talking about social benefits. in this sense, I would like a map to be distributed that demonstrates what I said. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u18	This is embarrassing to Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is waiting for them to intervene. [[Pause.]] Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The data now published by the INE allow us, in some way, to do the portrait of our country, but at the same time also allow us to make an assessment of the work of the PSD/CDS Government and see the results of its policies. What do the data released by INE tell us? Government policies have increased the number of people living below the poverty line; increased poverty and poverty intensity; increased the number of people in severe material deprivation; increased the number of people at risk of social exclusion; and increased the number of poor children. But this data also shows that the government has aggravated social inequalities. In other words, the government has fattened the richest, at the same time that it has made the poorest poor and that it has created new poor people. In fact, the income of those who are considered poor today is lower than the income they had before this government. We're talking less than 5% of the income and we're talking about the poorest people. In the meantime, before this government took over, the richest 10 % had nine times the poorest 10 %. In 2013 this value rose 11 times. We are talking about the worsening social inequalities because we are talking about the work of the government. We are talking about poverty, but we are also talking about the options of this government. We are talking about misery because we are talking about the poverty policies of this government. We're talking about fattening the richest and fattening the poorest, because we're talking about ideologies. After all, it is the ideology of the government that we are talking about today. Moreover, it is not new to anyone who the government is protecting the wealthiest or who has to multiply poverty. Mr Minister, as I hope you will still be speaking in this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u21	No one else wants to discuss poverty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u22	I'll leave you a question from now on. As you know, rather than anyone else, this government, in addition to promoting unemployment, both in the public sector and in the private sector, has still substantially cut the social income of insertion, family allowances, social pensions, school social action, social unemployment allowance, and so on. Mr Minister, does it not seem to you that these government policies have led to the sad situation we are experiencing today and that INE data have, after all, been confirmed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u24	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is still waiting for registration so that we can continue the debate. [[Pause.]] If there are no entries, I shall close the debate. This isn't a threat, it's the logic of things. There's a reasonable time for everything. In the meantime, Mr Miguel Laranjeiro wrote for an intervention. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As I realized that the PSD is not available to defend the Minister of the CDS-PP, the Socialist Party has signed up to tell the truth about the minister's policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] At the end of four years, the position of the Government and this majority is clear. In fact, it was synthesized a few months ago by the parliamentary leader of the PSD in a famous expression: « The country is better, people are worse». The problem is that there is no country that is better when citizens are worse and when there is more unemployment and poverty. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u26	Minister, what country is this where the levels of extreme poverty, poverty in the elderly, poverty in children are catastrophic and are worsening? In 2013 there were 19, 5 % of people at risk of poverty after the application of social support. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been back for a decade in the fight against poverty in Portugal, we have gone back! Today there are more than 2 million Portuguese in poverty, 470,000 children at risk and inequalities have increased. That is, the richest are getting richer than the poorest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u27	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u28	It's true! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what country is this and what government is this that looks at such situation with indifference? [[PSD protests.]] In fact, as we see from the intervention of Mr Artur Rêgo, of the CDS-PP. And I'm not only talking about income-related poverty, and it would not be little more if it was just about income-related poverty; I'm also talking about PSD and CDS-PP having set up a clear program of wage cuts, income reduction, gross tax increases, and in addition, they've devalued services and public responses; when, with some cynicism to mix, they've ended adult training; when they've finished vocational training; when they've diminished social income of inclusion and solidarity supplement for the elderly. These programmes with great capacity in combating poverty, according to the Government, are preventing Portuguese from coming out of a spiral of poverty. Mrs. Unfortunately, the worst has not happened. The risk of poverty in the elderly is increasing in an expressive way, while the solidarity supplement for the elderly decreases, proving that one thing has a direct relationship with the other. As they cut off the solidarity complement for the elderly, it increases the risk of poverty in the elderly, and that must be said! [[PSD protests.]] Education, training, employment, labour income, basic social support are crucial to breaking this cycle of poverty. What country is this and what government is this that attacks the National Health Service, which devalues the public school, promoting other private services, is true, and separating and dividing the population between those who can get there and the others who stay behind? What country is this? We reject this vision. We are one country and one people! Are there any difficulties? Yes! But the fight must be effective, fair, equitable, allowing everyone to be in the chariot ahead of development, knowledge, growth and decent living. What you want is to see a few in the front carriage, most of them in the back carriages, but more and more Portuguese and Portuguese are out of any development carriage, hidden under the carpet. Only the friends of the government are staying there, Minister! [[PSD protests.]] See what happened to social security appointments. In 18 appointments for district directors, 14 have already been appointed, in which 11 are from the PSD and 3 are from the CDS-PP. While they fire more than 600 social security staff, they appoint 14 directors! What country is this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? It may be a lot, but it is not a country of solidarity, it is not a country that leaves no one behind or that helps those who need it most. I do not know whether it is more serious not to take measures to combat this situation or whether it is the insensitivity with which the Government faces this issue. But the Portuguese have already noticed that, with this majority, we don't go there! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u29	For an intervention, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by making a call for memory. In 2011 Portugal was on the verge of bankruptcy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u31	And now you're not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u32	... and the situation was announced by 2010. What did the socialist government do in 2010? He froze all — I stress 'all' — pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u33	With PSD support!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u34	... severely cut family allowances, blocked the national minimum wage and proposed to forcefully reduce the social income of insertion. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] After that, came a very painful rescue program designed and negotiated by former Prime Minister José Socrates. This tough programme, negotiated by José Socrates, responded to this government, led by Prime Minister Passos Coelho, with a social emergency programme, a program necessary to combat extreme poverty situations, which were naturally born of that rescue program. The social canteens, the social energy tariff, the increase in minimum pensions and the promotion of access to unemployment benefit were some responses, among others, which the Government promptly submitted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u36	Has the country been in trouble? Yes! In 2013, in particular? Of course! But if there was more poverty in 2013 there was no worse distribution of wealth; on the contrary, the richest paid more and the poorest paid less! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u37	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u38	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u39	The Government has fought exclusion and the Portuguese have courageously worked to raise the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u41	What has the general opposition done? He has tabled motions of censure! All with motions of censure! Until the PS, which brought to Portugal the program that is known, this ransom, presented in 2013 desputably a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u42	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u43	The PS presented motions of censure to the opposition, while the government was working and the Portuguese were courageously committed to rescue the country! The answer lies in evidence: the country turned around, without social seizures and no ferocious agitation on the street, as some wished and expected. Mr. Miguel Laranjeiro asked which country is this. Answer: a remarkable country,... [[PSD applause.]] ... a country capable of recovering, a country that is already in a job creation situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u44	Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u45	... a country that is already having economic growth and investment growth, a country that is fighting unemployment. I remember that in 2013 the unemployment rate was around 18 % and in 2014 at 13, 4 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u46	That was because some emigrated and others gave up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u47	We are on our way to the unemployment rate that you left in 2011, we are close to that unemployment rate. We must not forget that unemployment is the most direct plan for poverty. Creating a job is fighting poverty! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u48	Poverty is combated by creating jobs, and that is what we bet. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In turn, the measures taken now in 2015 are already the fruit of this new country that we are building. It is a country with pensions that no longer have cuts, it is a country with the public function to see its wages grow, it is a country that already has the minimum wage to increase—remember, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues! — it is a country that has increased and extended social benefits, it is a country that has increased cooperation agreements for the IPSS. Yes, it is a country that already has the international recognition it needs. It is a country where we are building an inclusive democracy and, although some claim, this government and the Portuguese are building it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u49	Madam President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u50	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u51	Madam President, I have asked the Bureau to request the distribution of a document so that we can all have this debate on the same basis. I believe that Mr Adam Silva is unaware of the INE report, on the basis of which we are having this current debate, so I would like to ask for the distribution of page 4 of this INE report, where it is said, in two different indicators, that the difference between the incomes of the poorest and the richest has worsened in 2013 as a result of what has already happened. Mr Adam Silva said that this had not happened, but I wanted this INE document to be distributed which says exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u52	I didn't say anything like that! I would also like to take the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u53	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u54	Madam President, I have no document to ask for it to be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u55	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos ( PS ) : — No? That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u56	I do not have, but I agree with the assumption that we all read the reports of the International Monetary Fund. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u57	The International Monetary Fund is very clear on this matter: 20% of the richest citizens in this country had twice as much penalty as the poorest 20%. [[PS protests.]] It is in the report of the International Monetary Fund. I am not going to distribute any documents, because this would obviously be an insult to the intelligence of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u58	We will continue with the debate. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u59	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members: What we are discussing is the data of poverty, that is, the state of the country. There are credible INE data, there is a report that, I think, makes the « cotton test », so it is not worth coming the CDS talking about PS and data from 2010 / 2011 and the PSD coming to talk about the IMF. We need to talk about exactly the responsibilities of this government here and now and, more specifically, in the year 2013 that we have absolutely known data. These data do not deceive: they tell us that there are more than 2 million people who live with 411 € ; they tell us that half of these 2 million, that is, nearly 1 million people live with 286 € ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u61	... they tell us that one in four children is poor; they tell us that one in five people is poor; they tell us that the wealth of the richest 10 % has increased by 11 % in 2013. That's the data. Therefore, the discussion cannot be that of the « pass blame». We know that poverty has not been born in 2013, nor in 2010, nor in 2011. The country has been poor for a long time. We also know that we had a Prime Minister who told us that his policy was precisely impoverishment. Well, here we have to pursue that same policy. I promise you I will! Pedro Passos Rabbit has the promise fulfilled! Today we have an unequivocally poorer country. This is the cruelty of data. It's not worth saying here that they've increased pensions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, have good sense, have the courage to assume that five consecutive years ago pensioners won €274 and today they still earn €274. Poorer! Have the courage to assume that pensioners who won €303 and €383 also have their frozen pensions. Poorer! Have the courage to assume that there are fewer people covered by the social income of insertion! Have the courage to assume that the poor are people, they demand dignity and that no child can be content — nor is it worthy — when they only give him a soup dish! Any child has the right to gain more from his or her parents, that his or her father, mother and family members are not unemployed or that they are covered by unemployment benefit, that their grandparents or other family members have decent pensions. Any elderly person will dispensate the social canteen if he has a decent pension! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u62	This is the difference between us and the government. It is the difference between dignity and little charity, which is your ideological line. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u63	The Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the very first moment we took possession that we knew that the adjustment that was required of us would have an economic and social impact on the country, on the Portuguese. In view of these consequences, our concern has always been to protect from sacrifices and to protect from the difficulties those most exposed to the crisis. When we talk about poverty, we don't talk about rates or statistics. We are talking about people, families with great difficulties, especially those in a situation of unemployment. The numbers of poverty are always a reflection of the suffering of the weakest and the most unprotected, and that is what should concern us all. The truth is we inherited a country where the probability of a family member staying in unemployment was increasing. We inherited a country with a hard Memorandum of Understanding to accomplish, which pushed us very close to our margin of action. We inherited a country that did not have a forecast of economic growth. It was not this government that placed the country on the brink of bankruptcy, nor was this government that negotiated a rescue plan. But it is up to this government to carry out this rescue plan and get out of the troika as quickly as possible, thereby saving the way towards economic growth and employment recovery. at the same time as we had to implement an economic adjustment programme, we chose, on our initiative, to launch a social emergency programme. We wanted this programme to safeguard those who had lower incomes, to protect the most vulnerable groups and to respond to those who had the most difficulties and at the same time asked those with the highest incomes to make a redoubled contribution. The Social Emergency Programme covered more than 2 million Portuguese people through an investment in the direct fight against poverty and social exclusion. To this end, we invest about EUR 1000 million in a programme that reached the elderly, the unemployed, the families, the disabled and the social institutions that care for those who are most vulnerable. Several were the measures that directly combated poverty and guaranteed support to those who needed it most. We raised the issue of raising income by 6, 2 % to 1 million Portuguese people — those who receive lower pensions — which means that 1 million pensioners in 2015 will have an increase of more than € 220 in their annual income compared to 2011, and these pensioners had seen their pensions frozen in the same year by the hands of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But we have done more: we have saved the elderly—and a very expressive set of other Portuguese people, who make five and a half million people in total — from the payment of any moderate fees and create the social transport and energy tariffs, having been reinforced by the latter in 2015 so that they can cover about one and a half million Portuguese. And we managed, at the centre of social consultation, an increase in the minimum wage—and was registered by the hand of the Socialist Party, in the Memorandum of Understanding, which could not be done during the adjustment period—of more than 280 € annually for about half a million Portuguese. To respond to the difficulties, we launched innovative measures, such as the increase in unemployment allowance for unemployed couples with dependent children, the drug bank — which has already enabled the donation of about 2 million euros of packages — the social lease market — which has already largely exceeded our initial expectations and today has about 3500 real estates in portfolios — and a network of social canteens which has always guaranteed meals to those in a situation of greatest difficulty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the response to poverty is, above all, a responsibility of the State which, in this sense, needs to take steps to effectively help people. The great part of responsibility is, yes, in the social state and its ability to respond. The biggest threat to our social state is putting Portugal on the brink of bankruptcy. To redeem the State, to redeem our autonomy is to guarantee the social dimension that the State must always have. INE data cause everyone to worry, but it is also true that they highlight the role social benefits have played in reducing poverty and note that today we have a stronger social state in combating poverty, particularly with the effect of poverty reduction in the elderly compared to 2011, for which the rise in minimum pensions has been unequivocally contributed. The impact of social transfers, other than pensions, on reducing the risk of poverty in 2014 was greater than that recorded in 2011 : about 4 percentage points more than in 2011. And we have a stronger social state also because it's not alone. He has taken an unprecedented partnership with the social economy sector and the results are meaningful for all those who can enjoy it today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, unemployment, like poverty, is not a statistic. It's a real problem that affects thousands of Portuguese. To ignore this is not to understand the latest data on poverty. In 2013 unemployment, in the face of the rescue they put us, in the face of the crisis we live in, reached its highest point. Fortunately, the upward trend of unemployment has been reversed. Poverty data are related to the year 2013 in which unemployment has reached monthly values of almost 18 %. Today, according to the latest INE data, it is 13, 4 %. It is still high, but Portugal is happily recovering in the economy and in employment, which means less than 234 000 Portuguese in unemployment than in January 2013. There are fewer than 234 000 people exposed to unemployment-related poverty than in the period currently under review by the INE. The unemployment data also affected our young people and for whom today we already have an important response: the Youth Guarantee programme has so far covered 218 000 young people who had not a specific response from the State before. And now that we have recovered our freedom and our sovereignty, we want to consolidate growth without ever forgetting those who have the least. We must continue to work so that we can have more social inclusion and for this it is vital that the next Community support framework, Portugal 2020. in this framework, we will have allocated EUR 2000 million directly to the fight against poverty, social exclusion and job creation in a specific operational programme for this area, which has never been strategically created before. In this regard, let me highlight one of the measures we hope to have more expression in the fight against poverty: local contracts for social development. They are contracts between the State and local authorities and social institutions with projects focused on local realities and which, operating on the ground, combat poverty, especially children, and have a huge concern in stimulating employment. Within the next Community framework, we will be in vulnerable territories and ageing new local social development contracts. There will be about 200 contracts that we want to move forward by 2020, with an overall amount of about EUR 60 million. Sixty million euros directly invested in a proximity response, favouring the principle of subsidiarity, will enable an effective fight against the phenomena of poverty. We want these contracts also to have the current success rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u65	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u66	... but with an even more expressive impact and for this we want to promote greater interaction with professional insertion offices, which today give an important but that can be enhanced. Thus, by creating employment, by combating social exclusion, by having the area of solidarity and employment to work together, we will be able to continue to take measures in the future to protect the weakest and most unprotected people in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u67	Mr Minister, the Bureau records the registration of Mrs. Mr Sónia Fertuzinhos and Mr Machado, for requests for clarification, for which Mr Minister does not have time to answer but has his own political value. [[Pause.]] The gentlemen. Members have just indicated to the Bureau that they are turning requests for clarification into interventions for time indicated in the electronic framework. So you have the floor, first of all, for an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security : In fact, it is unfortunate that you have not been able to allow time to answer the questions, because there is at least one that you have to answer in this debate. But before that, let me tell you that the data from the INE on 2013 are unequivocal: there are more poor people in Portugal and those who were already poor were even poorer. And, Mr Minister, it is true that the effect of social transfers improved in 2013 compared to 2012, but still is below 2011 and 2010. What INE data say—and, Minister, it is not worth trying to deceive anyone—is that the objective of protecting the most vulnerable, to use their expression, has failed. The Government's social emergency plan has failed, as the political option of its government and its Minister has failed to increase minimum pensions... Madam President, I know that Mr Minister does not have time to answer me, but now I could do the right thing to hear me. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As I was saying, it failed the political objective to increase minimum pensions at the expense of cuts in the solidarity complement for the elderly. And, Mr Minister, it was already foreseeable that minimum pensions would have no effect on poverty reduction because the Minister increased minimum pensions to €259, when the poverty threshold in 2013 was about €411. The increase in minimum pensions, as has been done, would never have an effect on poverty reduction, when it would have had much in the intensity of poverty, but even increased, Minister. Let me also tell you the following: when the Minister of Solidarity comes here to devalue the 2013 data, because in 2014, only by faith, he understands that the situation will be better, Minister, now with that statement, he ceases to be truly a Minister of Solidarity. It is that a Minister of Solidarity worthy of that name could never devalue the data of poverty, especially because he has an obligation to know that there are many long-term unemployed who will soon be without unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u69	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u70	I shall conclude, Madam President. So, unfortunately, the complicated situation of many families, of many people is far from over. The question I have to ask you — and I think that no one has yet put it, but it is important that it be put — is this: is the Minister and his Government still intend to maintain the cuts of EUR 100 million in social benefits that replace labour income? Yes or no, Minister, and how are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u71	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u72	It is because if the government keeps that objective, Minister, this government really does not serve! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u73	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the intervention time. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security : The problem we are bringing about today is not how to disguise poverty, which was the exercise that Mr Minister did in his speech. The problem with the debate is how we actually solve the problem of poverty in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u75	Creating jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u76	The CFP knows very well how we have reached these levels of poverty, we know very well when and why. We know that poverty began to increase significantly at the time of PECs signed by PS and PSD, we know very well that Troikas, national and foreign, with their Memorandum of Understanding, signed by PS, PSD and CDS, began to significantly aggravate poverty in our country. The Minister knows very well — and the CFP accuses him of increasing poverty by an ideological option: because it is a fundamental condition for ensuring the profits of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u77	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u78	Mr. Minister promotes a process of concentration of wealth so that, in the year that we have seen the greatest increase in poverty since fascism, economic groups have obscene profits:... [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] ... EDP, 1005 million; Portucel, 210 million; BES, 517 million; Galp, 310 million; Sonae, 319 million; Jerome Martins, 382 million. In order for these gentlemen to have these obscene profits in the year when poverty has increased most in our country, the government promotes poverty in our country by throwing 2, 7 million Portuguese to poverty. This fact and this reality are unforgettable! The Minister is here to tell us: "I am very concerned about poverty and I have done this, that, the other, the other and the other." Mr. Minister, we have a problem. If the government has done all this, how does it explain the increase in poverty? How does it explain — and INE data are irreversible — a significant increase in poverty in our country? Minister, your propaganda does not really fit the country! Your propaganda is not in the concrete reality of people! Poverty among the unemployed has increased. You know very well that if you add the inactive, the disabled, the traineeships and vocational training, if you add all of this, today we have 22 % unemployment. It did not reduce unemployment, it increased, and significantly. [[Rice from CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] The CDS bench may laugh at it, but outside, those who attend this debate know that unemployment is a social scourge that is not being resolved by this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u80	More: if the government was concerned about solving the problem of unemployment, it could perfectly stop the requalification process. But no! The government wants, and will fire, more 620 social security workers, many of them with disabilities above 60 %, as the CFP reported yesterday. This shows that the government is very little concerned about unemployment in our country; on the contrary, it promotes it. Third argument: in 2014 and 2015, the situation is better. Mr. Minister knows very well that what has changed has changed to worse. If the Minister listened to the statements made today by the Caritas de Portimão, which claim that they have not seen the aid applications diminish — rather, the requests for aid and food shortages have increased significantly — he would not say that 2014 was better and that 2015 is getting better. In conclusion, the fight against poverty is not, nor has it ever been, the intention of the Government. It is because to combat poverty it is necessary to distribute national wealth better and what the government does is a deliberate process of concentration of wealth, a process that aims at half a dozen people having a significant set of that wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u81	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u82	The real political agenda of the government is to concentrate wealth in half a dozen people, at the expense of the impoverishment of the great majority. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u83	Mrs Mariana Aiveca of the Left Block also participated in an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u84	Madam President, Minister : As usual, he came here to make a certain deal and cast another somewhat imperceptible plan. But, Minister, it is the data that reveal the cruelty of the situation and the levels of poverty are those of 2014 and are the result of your policy. The Minister, who is also Minister of Labour, has come to recognize, and well, that unemployment is the main problem with regard to poverty. Question : What measures have you taken regarding unemployment? But we can talk about wages, Minister. It is also the INE report, the same as we are discussing, which tells us that the average wage of the most specialized young people—listen well! — it is €651, I repeat, of the most specialized young people, and the average wage for young people is €515. And we're talking about the most qualified generation ever. With these wage levels, Minister Pedro Mota Soares, don't you want me to continue impoverishment? Or when you also talk about unemployment and you know perfectly well that more than 40 % of the unemployed do not have the right to unemployment benefit, do you not want to continue to be impoverished? Or when you know, and you don't explain to us, where you're going to cut you don't want me to continue impoverishment? In fact, this budget is expected to cut more than EUR 100 million in social benefits. That is to say, any "planning" that you are presenting to us here is nothing more than a charity plan. It is the policy of the extended hand, it is the policy of a poverty in which you see yourself, it is the policy of the poor and very grateful for the alms of the "Soup of the Poor", many of them head down and ashamed! We don't want this! It is your policy that has led to this situation, an absolutely extreme poverty in more than 2 million people, of which 1 million has incomes of €286. This is even the result of four years of a government that had as its master line the impoverishment of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u85	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I asked the Minister recently if he did not consider it to have been the policies of the government that have led to the sad situation we are experiencing today and the Minister, having not answered and since silence also has a reading, I will have to conclude that sharing the reading I do, which in some way facilitates things. Thus, we agree that it was the policies of the PSD/CDS government that fired the number of people living below the poverty line; that they increased poverty and its intensity; that the government increased the number of people at risk of social exclusion and the number of poor children; and that the government fattened the richest, while it brought the poorest and the new poor. Mr. Minister, it was also very difficult to deny the evidence. Only those who had not read the INE report. It's because there are still those people who read all the IMF reports, but they don't read the INE report, which is what's at stake. In fact, INE data show very clearly that the government not only caused the deterioration of the living conditions of the poorest, but also increased the number of the poorest. The poorest are today more and live in worse conditions. This sad reality is the result of the decline in social support, which this government has done over time. The number of beneficiaries of social income for inclusion fell by 40 % compared to 2010. Today, only 16% of people below the poverty line have access to social income for inclusion and before the government takes possession were almost 30 %. The risk of poverty among children increased three percentage points and with this government the long-term unemployment rate increased from 4 % to 9 %. This is the portrait of the survey recently published by INE. And it is not true what Mr. Prime Minister says when he says that this is just the 2013 echo and that things are now better. No, that's not true! With the 2015 State Budget it is not necessary to be a guesser to realize that in 2015 inequalities will be accentuated and that poverty will continue to spread in a frightening way. in the 2015 State Budget, the government decided on an option to re-download the IRC of large companies and to increase, also by option, taxes on families. The government, by choice, decided to cut more EUR 100 million into social benefits and also, by choice, asked the bank only EUR 30 million, which does not even go to the state's coffers, because they are at the disposal of the bank, in the Resolution Fund. So in 2015, the numbers will be even worse than those we are here today analyzing and once again Mr. Prime Minister has missed the truth. It is good for him to read the INE report — he and others. Members, like Mr Adam Silva, who read all the IMF reports, but INE reports do not read. We're sorry. We're sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u87	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is a serious, important issue that unfortunately afflicts many of our fellow citizens and we can have two perspectives. We can have a serious perspective on whether there is poverty, which is an undeniable fact, but not three, not four, not five years ago, but many years ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u89	He got worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u90	What is more, there have been various regimes, as they have been talking about, where poverty has not ended, but where the poor have been tried to end.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u92	With regard to these, they say nothing strictly. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u93	Madam President, I believe that what is at stake here is whether or not we are doing what must be done to combat this poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u94	No, he's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u95	by the majority and the government, we prefer to list a set of measures that have been taken, such as updating minimum social and rural pensions, increasing unemployment benefits in unemployed couples, increasing the national minimum wage, a set of measures that have combated this scourge of poverty. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u96	And what are we watching on the side of the opposition? We already realize that from the left side to the left is the usual! Because they have a problem with reality for many years, taking that little little trick from Mr. Jorge Machado, a little bit of news. Now, Mr President, I would like to make it clear to you that I was laughing at you, I was not laughing at poverty, because no one, obviously, in this House — and, unlike the CFP, do not make any judgments — if I laugh at such a serious matter! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But using, as you have done, ridiculous arguments and falsehoods in the political debate is, in fact, laughable and ridiculous. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u97	But, going essentially, I mean, on the PS side, we were expecting more! It is because the PS, in a spirit of demagogy, particularly Mr Miguel Laranjeiro, completely forgets that what we inherited was a State where the social state was impossible to bear. For a simple reason: it was a broken state! It was a state that was begging for support in the European Union to be able to pay wages and pensions! And since the Socialist Party — and with this ending, because it is important that these debates clarify — spoke on the question of the supposed boys, let us be clear: the only way to end the boys is to finish the jobs. But what the Socialist Party did, once again, in an exercise of inconsistency, not to say of political hypocrisy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u98	Of total inconsistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u99	...is that this government ended with 356 PS time leaders, PS boys! Regional directors were twice as many, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, and curiously, there they voted against. [[PS protests.]] We understand why you are upset with this matter: we have reduced what you have created. You deny the past. At least don't deny reality! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u100	To intervene in the PSD, Mr Adam Silva was registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Addressing the question of poverty is a matter of greater delicacy, not only because we are talking about Portuguese being in a delicate situation, but also about us all, which, with a spirit of solidarity, we obviously want poverty not to grow and, on the contrary, it decreases, and the differences in income between people diminish. It is not possible to make the approach as it is being done here, especially by the parties of the extreme left, in a logic of more or less repeated bricks, in a kind of exhaust that is tired.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u102	Clavons? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u103	Nor can it be done as the Socialist Party did here. I am referring, in particular, to the last speech by Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos. The honourable Member has raised three points in her speech which I would like to stress here. in the first point, Mrs Deputy focuses on 2013, in fact a delicate year for the issues of poverty in Portugal. But, Mrs. Member, don't worry! Since it has a desire to dive into the recent history of this country it does not remain in 2013, because this year does not appear from the abstract, it is followed by 2012, 2011 and 2010. And when I mean 2011 you understand what I'm talking about! 2013 does not appear by chance, it is a consequence, practical and direct of the unfortunate situation in which PS put Portugal. And this is a matter that needs to be stressed! Secondly, it is also not important to be constantly diving in the past. Does it matter, yes, from my point of view, to look at the present and the future and ask a question: are we, or are we not, turning around? [[We are!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u104	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u105	Is the country re-emerging or not? [[He is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u106	If we are creating jobs and reducing unemployment, if we are having economic growth, if we are distributing the wealth that we are generating, in the meantime, through, in particular, the increase in pensions, by increasing the minimum wage, through the EUR 50 million that will be given to the IPSS for new cooperation agreements, are we not overcoming the poverty situation? [[Don't!]] [[Don't!]] [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u107	Of course we are! Finally, there is a third point, Mrs Deputies, which is really implacable, which is the following: VV. Ex. they speak, proclaim, criticize, obstinate, but where are the alternatives? [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] Tell us where the alternative is! What would you do differently to build such an inclusive democratic society? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u108	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u109	I conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u110	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. The debate has already been greatly extended by all speakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u111	Mr President, I conclude by thanking you for the time and tolerance you gave me and saying that what matters is that the Portuguese have stood up. They don't accept being on the edge. They rise up with courage to build, every day, a new country, a more equal country, a more just and more supportive country! Thank you very much, Madam President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u112	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos asked for the floor to speak to the Bureau. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would once again like to ask the Bureau to have the proposals which the Socialist Party had the opportunity to present in the discussion of the State budget for 2015,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u114	... that were exactly directed to the fight against poverty, because 2012 data were already worrying.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u115	You're clear, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u116	And I also wanted to say, Mr Adam Silva, that, yes, there was a difference between the 2011 poverty rate and that of now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u117	Madam Member, this is no longer a procedural issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u118	It is that in 2011 it was 17, 9 % and now it is 19, 5 %! There's a difference, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u119	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor, which still has time to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are present in this debate to the majority PSD / CDS-PP to literally run away from their responsibilities. They invent a thousand scenarios, a thousand and an apology to escape what is the harsh reality: poverty in our country has increased as it has never increased since fascism! And this fact has political responsibilities, which are the PSD, the CDS and the Memorandum of Understanding also signed by the PS. Poverty, Mr. President and Mrs. Members, increased among the elderly, among the unemployed, among the women, fired significantly among the employees, among the children and young people. We know that poverty is not just numbers, it is people in concrete terms. And we know, sirs. Members, who are increasingly elderly who are obliged to choose between eating or paying the electricity or light account, between paying the electricity or light account or paying the remedies they have to take. More and more children are starving and coming undernourished to school. And the accusing finger can only be pointed to the political options of the PSD and CDS-PP, which deliberately promote a process of concentration of wealth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u122	More: do not say that there is no money in our country to fight this scourge. while poverty increases in our country and we have 2, 7 million poor, PSD and CDS guarantee EUR 7500 million for the bank! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u123	EUR 7 billion to pay a debt! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] 850 million PPP for the major economic groups! 1008 million swaps for the bank! And millions and millions of tax benefits within IRC. Therefore, Minister, Mr. Members of the PSD and CDS-PP, the harsh reality with which the country today is confronted with poverty results from an ideological option of the PSD/CDS-PP government, which is to concentrate wealth in half a dozen so that very few have millions at the cost of millions and millions starving in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the current debate ends here. This debate has been long enough, because all speakers have extended their speeches, so I would ask the honourable Members. Members who standardised intervention times, because they are far out of the normal time frame of the debates. in this current debate we had a surplus of almost 15 minutes. Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 769 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of victims of domestic violence by amending the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September 2009 and the second amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 establishing the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 745 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 and the child protection organisation, ensuring greater protection for all victims of domestic violence and other forms of violence in the family context ( BE ). To open the debate, I give the floor to speak on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Francisca Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u125	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: Most PSD/CDS-PP today brings to this Parliament a set of proposals aimed at significantly changing the legal framework in the area of domestic violence crime. It is fair, however, that the work not only of the Government — particularly through the promotion of the National Days Against Domestic and Gender Violence — should be recognised, but also that of the judiciary, police, NGOs and all those who, every day, deal in the field with this crime, the victims and the aggressors. We all thank the work of every day and, in this particular case, the contribution to identifying gaps and improvements which, at the legislative level, must be undertaken. So this project comes at once. Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members: With this bill, three important and innovative amendments are introduced in summary. First, the obligation of the entities receiving the complaint or complaint for the crime of domestic violence to transmit immediately to the Public Prosecutor's Office, thus establishing a special regime for the period of 10 days, which is the period laid down in the general regime. Second, the summons of the suspect by the Public Prosecutor shall, within 48 hours of receipt of the complaint or complaint, be made for the purpose of making up the defendant, questioning, adopting coercion measures and, in particular, adopting measures to protect the victim and dependents in charge. Finally, the obligation to subject the trial regime of those convicted of domestic violence when the court orders the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence. This is intended, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, turn back the eyes of the legislator, the criminal police and the magistrates in the sense of greater and wider protection of the victim.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u127	In fact, with the legislative amendments which we are presenting today, it is possible that, if the victim is, within a very short period of 48 to 72 hours, the victim may, for example, benefit from a remote assistance measure or any other protection measure, and the aggressor is obliged to abandon the common residence or prohibited from contacting it, even being under electronic surveillance or subject to any other of the coercive measures provided for in the general criminal law. More: in cases of suspended sentence of imprisonment—in which the convicted person is released without any supervision or follow-up, which naturally leaves the victim in a situation of special vulnerability to situations of revenge and recurrence—it is proposed that, also here, when determining the penalty to be applied, the judge look again at the protection of the victim and the minors in his position. in this sense, the proof regime — in general, subjecting to a social reintegration programme accompanied by the services of the Directorate-General for Social Integration — becomes compulsory. And, in addition to assessing the penalty to be attributed to the aggressor, the judge has to also evaluate the determination of protective measures to apply to the victim. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the bill we are discussing today, we intend to make a decisive contribution to the fact that all means of protection of the victim are particularly rapid, including those resulting from the application of coercion measures to the aggressor. We therefore intend to respond to the identified needs that already claimed a response from the legislator. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u128	Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that, despite the greater attention of the legislator or the executioner, the phenomenon of domestic violence continues to record worrying figures. It is also true, and we must all recognize it, that part of the expression of reality in numbers leads to greater public exposure to the problem, to more vigilant collective attention and, in short, to a system that in its various aspects is more effective. But the greatest truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that the drama continues and next to the numbers and their interpretations are the lives of people we cannot ignore: 40 married murders in 2013, 30 victims women and 10 men. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're doing better. Not recognizing it would be to devalue the work and dedication — which I take advantage of here to praise — of all the agents of the system. But we have to go on. Domestic violence is a complex phenomenon, with a complex reality and a complex response that requires permanent attention, particularly by the legislator. Therefore, in a consistent and complementary manner to the policies of the Government — which have been many and in several areas — taking advantage of the deep and extensive reflections of the national schedules, as well as the numerous reflections carried out in this House, focusing on the protection of victims and the aware of the capabilities, but also of the shortcomings of the system, the CDS-PP, together with the PSD, comes with this initiative to seek to strengthen not only the criminal response to the aggressors, but also the situation of the victim and the strengthening of his judicial protection. We therefore propose, in summary, speed at the initial stage of the process for rapid weighting and application of coercion measures and/or victim protection measures, on the one hand. On the other hand, we propose that the trial procedure be mandatory, with the weighting, if necessary, of victim protection measures, where the proceedings culminate in the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence which in 2013 was more than 80 % of the cases. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this brief presentation, what we would like to make clear is our understanding that the guarantee of protection for victims of domestic violence, as soon as a complaint occurs, is essential for confidence in the system and for the effectiveness of any plan to combat this reality. We therefore make our contribution, call for your contribution and follow up on a collective effort. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u130	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor to present the bill of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We return to a central debate on what we can and should still do for the protection of victims of domestic violence and other forms of family violence, recognizing, of course, the work of all entities and of all associations engaged in combating this scourge. I begin by reminding you of Article 31. that of the Istanbul Convention, which states that the rights of visit and custody should not jeopardise the rights and security of victims, children and young people. Recently, we have seen data provided by the PSP that indicate that at least 40 % of minors in 2014 attended assault scenes. in this sense, the bill we present here tries to answer this question. Recognizing the frequent lack of coordination between family courts and criminal courts, does it make sense that a sexual aggressor can maintain shared parental responsibilities with regard to his victim? Does it make sense for an aggressor, on every visit he makes to his children, to take advantage of the opportunity to continue attacking the victim as many times as he understands? These are the questions we have tried to answer. They will tell us, perhaps, that the law already foresees a lot. We will answer that reality often tells us exactly the opposite and that the Istanbul Convention obliges us to strengthen the protection of these victims. That is why the bill we present amends the Civil Code as to the common rule of sharing parental responsibilities that will not be applied when the security and rights of victims of domestic violence or other forms of domestic violence, such as sexual abuse of minors, are concerned. We also alter the child protection organization, also making an inscription in Law No 112, trying or testing the suspension or mediation of visits to the mediation of these specialized professionals, which is the proposal we make here. In view of the seriousness of this debate, I would like to point out that the bill of majority seems to us, politically and technically, a project that is testing important answers, based on the recognition of a given that it is very worrying: 90% of the convictions of domestic violence end up suspended from prison. in this sense, the majority propose an amendment to Article 152. the, relating to domestic violence, as regards the testing regime and measures to protect victims and minors. It also proposes amendments to Law No 112/2009 when more rapidity and coercion and protection measures. We understand that this openness is essential for these legislative amendments that we have announced and we ask that it be understood for your part. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We wanted to start by welcoming the Assembly of the Republic because, for the second time in a month, we bring here the discussion of important projects to combat domestic violence. In our view, it is a sign that political solemnity gives good results and also a sign that it reinforces the political struggle over a brutal phenomenon that, in the first month of this year, has already caused three more fatalities, women murdered by their husbands and companions. The PS's position on these matters is always to support the efforts of the parliamentary groups to combat a problem that, despite everything that has already been done over the past 15 years—and has been a lot, involving several entities— still persists. We recognize that Portugal has a serious problem that is identified and that is still present in the hearings promoted by the Sub-Commission on Equality has been referred back to, which is how to remove the victim's aggressor. More serious, it seems to us, is how to put them away when they live together and, in this context, how to strengthen the protection of victims, who are mainly women and children. The bill of the Left Block seems to us to be a good solution — we welcome it — it seems to us to present innovative aspects in line with the recommendations of the Istanbul Convention. The bill of the majority—which we also welcome—has positive aspects, from then on the special speed that the PS's own project that was plunged and whose discussion in speciality was unfeasible also presented, with various solutions. However, there are aspects that deserve us some reservations, although we are available to accompany them and to discuss and introduce in the specialty what we consider most appropriate in the search for the best solutions to combat domestic violence. I'm referring to some of these aspects. For example, it does not present a solution when the victim and the aggressor live together. That is an urgent solution! It does not present a solution, as the Left Block does, to articulate the work between family courts and criminal courts. It seems to us even something redundant when it requires the implementation of certain measures which judges have already voluntarily done in a progressive manner. It seems to us that we can be hurt by some unconstitutionality — opinions will say better than we do — when it obliges the frequency of certain programmes by the aggressors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u134	There is no unconstitutionality!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u135	So we're going to accompany these projects in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are again discussing domestic violence. Domestic violence is a continuing scourge, which must be eradicated and on which the State has specific obligations in this fight: obligations to prevent the phenomenon, protection of all victims, effective follow-up of each concrete situation, monitoring of the backs, eradication of all forms of violence. It will also be important for Parliament to reflect deeply on the significant percentage of domestic violence crime cases culminating in the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence applied, since in 2013 89 % of the domestic violence convictions ended with the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence applied. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we discuss a draft law of the PSD and the CDS-PP that amends the Criminal Code and the law on the prevention of domestic violence, protection and assistance of its victims. We follow the principle of strengthening the protection of victims and, in this context, it seems interesting to us that, during the suspension of the prison sentence, the aggressor is under permanent surveillance of social reintegration services, fulfilling a reintegration plan, and that during this time the victim benefits from protective measures. For this to be practical, there must be adequate human resources, which do not exist today, in all cases, on a day-to-day basis. We call on the following: the number of social reintegration technicians that exist today is clearly insufficient to ensure effective follow-up of criminal proceedings and to protect education. According to the latest data from the Directorate-General for Social Integration, in October 2014 there were 362 social reintegration technicians who, in 10 months, responded to more than 55 000 requests from the courts. from the PCP side, we will always continue to demand, and also with this project, the hiring of all social reintegration technicians necessary to meet the objective of effective monitoring of each concrete situation. We will not be left simply by devoting their existence to the law. As for the bill of the Left Block, it introduces, as a rule, for situations of domestic violence and domestic violence the prohibition of the common exercise of parental responsibilities, shared custody, suspension of the visiting regime or its restriction. The opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor points out important issues and suggestions that, in the field of specialty, should be addressed, as well as a proposal for legislative amendment, in the framework of the Child Protection Organization, which we believe is important. The fight against the eradication of all forms of violence is also a fight against the CFP and, therefore, we will be here today and every day that is necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u138	You have the floor again, for a second speech, Mrs Teresa Anjinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to note how positive it is to open up the Socialist Party to follow up on the initiatives now under discussion. I take this opportunity to tell Mrs Elza Pais that I have not been able to understand the various criticisms that point to us, but we will certainly have the possibility of discussing in the specialty. The honourable Member says that there are no measures intended for the victim and the aggressor when they live together, but I now clarify that this project is done exactly for these cases and for the speedier application of the protection measures and coercion measures, including the removal of the aggressor, at an early stage of the process, in an initial period, which, as you know, is the most troubled. On matters of unconstitutionality, I confess to you that I do not understand either, because, as you know, the test regime is already applied and the social reintegration plan is already very comprehensive and goes far beyond the question of aggressors and programmes of aggressors, covering, for example, rules of conduct, with the flexibility necessary for a system of suspension of a sentence, which is already in prison. As far as the left block diploma is concerned, I want to make a note that I consider important. In fact, this is a legitimate concern, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, a concern that was also present in our bill, anchored in situations where national courts, when deciding on the regulation of parental responsibilities, as well as on the right to visit, not finding what is direct violence exercised against children, end up not to contextualize domestic violence and even despire children themselves from a victim status that the Penal Code itself already recognizes, and sometimes deciding in a sense what we want, that is, the desirable return of the victim, placing her even at risk, taking into account the coexistence with minors. First of all, I simply want to say that, as regards the removal or pretermination of the rule of joint exercise, we believe that what the Civil Code provides is already appropriate for this purpose when, of course, matters relating to the interests of minors are at stake. We understand, however, what we are proposing here, but I have to say, with another framework and with weighting on the need for intervention in the field of visiting rights, both in the substantive and adjective regimes. By providing for the Civil Code the substantive regime, which is in line with the adoption of safeguard measures in respect of custody and the arrangements for visits, and particularly within the framework of the Child Protection Organization ( TMO ) — and I recall that the Government is working exactly in the revision of this regime - there is no obstacle to a procedure, as the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry said, of guarantee regarding visits, in particular prioritising risk assessment or of follow-up by specialist technicians. I end by saying that this is indeed a path that is going on, so when well-founded and intentional, regardless of criticism, it is always to praise both the discussion and all the initiatives that are presented. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u140	For a new intervention, Mrs Francisca Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u141	Madam President, in the very short space of time I still have to speak in this debate, I would like to offer an explanation to Mrs Elza Pais, who raised two doubts about the project that we are presenting, not before thanking all the parliamentary groups for their openness to the bill that the majority today brings to the debate. Mrs Elza Pais, on the question she raised as to the circumstances of our project not to respond to the circumstances or situations in which the victim lives with the aggressor, I want to tell you that it is precisely to those situations that the project aims to respond. It is that the removal of the aggressor from the common house is already provided for in the law of domestic violence as a specific coercion measure for this type of crime and we want this coercion measure to be decreed in a very short space of time. Therefore, that is precisely what is intended to be answered. As regards the issue of unconstitutionality, I do not see, anywhere in the project, the obligation of the convicted person to attend treatment. What is expected is the obligation to submit to a test regime when there is a suspended prison sentence. In fact, this is already provided for in the Criminal Code and is already applied to this type of crime. We just want it to become mandatory, which is already happening with other types of crime, especially with specific situations regarding certain ages of convicted persons. Therefore, Mrs Elza Pais, strictly speaking, there is no innovation here, which is mandatory when, in fact, there was a possibility of casuistic assessment by the court. I believe I have clarified the doubts that have been raised and again I thank the will expressed by all parliamentary groups so that we can, in our specialty, work both our project and the project of the Left Block. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u142	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a time when the parties responsible for the initiatives end their discussions. in this case, there is a request for a word from Mrs Elza Pais, who thus runs out the last seconds of the debate, which would be contrary to the praxis. But the honourable Member still has time, as well as the Left Block, which is in your right to conclude the debate. Those who did not exercise this right were the PSD and the CDS-PP. I will therefore give the floor to Mrs Elza Pais and then to the Left Block. There's no way to go back. Mrs Elza Pais has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u143	Madam President, we do not want to be violating the existing agreement and, in that sense, I will abstain from the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u144	Madam Member, I did not ask you to dispense with the use of the word. Stay at your discretion. however, as you no longer intend to intervene, I give the floor to Mrs Cecília Honorio, of the Left Block, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief. We will have the opportunity to continue this debate in the field of expertise. however, I would like to warn Mrs Teresa Anjinho that, as you well know, the Civil Code establishes a rule, which is the common sharing of parental responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u146	Admit the exception!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u147	We are going to do this debate seriously, recognizing that — you know it as well as I am — that it is all very good when things go very well, when separations are in common agreement and dialogue remains. It is therefore a rule which, from our point of view, cannot and should not apply when fundamental rights and the safety of victims are involved. In any case, I would also like to welcome the availability announced here by all parliamentary groups on a problem and evidence that we now recognize: the lack of communication between courts, the need to speed up this communication and take into account a credible risk assessment of the victims. in this sense, on our part, there is every availability so that, in the field of expertise, this debate can be done with the seriousness it deserves to improve the law in favour of all these victims, who well deserve the work that we can do here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u148	Mrs. Members, the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 769 / XII ( 4 ) is concluded. ( a ) and 745 / XII ( 4. ( a). We move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1220 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cancel the public invitation to tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, SA, SA ( PS ), 1190 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by revoking the private sub-concession process of STCP and Metro do Porto ( PCP ), 1251 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Announces the public tender for the sub-concession of the Port Metro, SA(BE), 1252 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Announces the public tender procedure for the sub-concession of the STCP — Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA(BE) and 1255 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the public management of STCP and Port Metro ( Os Verdes ) companies. To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Port Metro and STCP are fundamental companies for the mobility system of the Port Metropolitan Area and therefore for all its social and economic life. Therefore, they are too important for decisions on them not to be taken with due weight and enforcement, which should be exemplary. But the competition launched for the allocation of the sub-concessions of the Port Metro and STCP can bring together the worst of all worlds. Firstly, it does not involve nor respects the competences and strategies of the municipalities. And it is not by chance that most camera presidents in all political areas come, even today, to say that the only way is to cancel the competition. Secondly, it does not protect the interests of the people, at the risk of only ensuring the operation of the most profitable careers and schedules and what was a flag of the STCP, the 100 % accessible buses for people with reduced mobility will no longer be a reality. Thirdly, it does not bet on a development strategy of the North and the Port Metropolitan Area. It is not said how the network will evolve, when it will be done, who will finance it and also nothing is said how the evolution of the Andante will be and how and by whom it will be managed. Fourthly, it reverses an environmental sustainability policy, will increase the average age of the fleet, and we may become the recipe for old buses from other countries of the European Union. Fifthly, it does not protect workers, and massive redundancies and substitutions may occur either at STCP or at Metro do Porto. Sixthly, the competition was a real trick: more than 2200 requests for clarification, substantial changes in the book of charges and, in fact, it came to an end with a completely different contest, without having made the obvious, which was to cancel that contest. Finally, in seventh place, they wanted to privatize, in an ideological fury against everything that is public, but it seems to be only against the public if it is national, because if it is Catalan it can already be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in reality, the hypothetical winner of the competition includes a Spanish public undertaking and is considered as an internal operator in the light of Community Regulation No 1370/2007 and, if confirmed — the Members of the Socialist Party to the European Parliament have already questioned it — will be prevented from having that sub-concession. Ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, the government made a picture of the city's strategies and even threw into the trash the study so propagandised, done at the beginning of the mandate, and led by Dr. Pedro Gonçalves. This contest, in addition to being a joke, is out of the law and is harmful to the public interest. The only solution is to cancel it, maintain the partnership with EMEF and give continuity to the necessary investments and the enhancement of the mobility system of the Metropolitan Area of Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u150	You now have the floor by the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: STCP and Metro do Porto are two public companies indispensable for the Porto district, contributing to its regional development and to ensuring compliance with the fundamental right to mobility. Its existence is a lever that enables the fight against the isolation of the population and the promotion of a true public transport policy that is at the service of the local and national economies and populations. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2013 the STCP transported 135 million passengers and the Port Metro 56 million, figures illustrating the importance of these companies in the district as well as the service they provide. They are companies created and developed with public investment for decades, which the PSD/CDS government now wants to deliver into the hands of privates who have contributed zero to their existence. It is a highly desirable business for those who take it because they do not have to make any investment in materials, equipment, lines and infrastructure, with investments of millions made by the Portuguese State. They still have human resources and will not have to bear the debts, because they remain for the state to pay. Thus, the PSD/CDS Government fattens the profits of the large economic groups at the expense of the destruction of a fundamental service for the populations, as in fact occurred in the sub-concession of the Port Metro, both Transdev and Barraqueiro, having been imposed on the company to pay the private sub-concessionaire a value greater than the revenues it took, guaranteeing the income of the private at the cost of increasing the Port Metro debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u153	In order to deceive the people and in order to discredit public enterprises, particularly through the use of debts as a justification for their privatization, the government deliberately does not mention how the Port Metro debt was generated, conceals that successive managers chosen by PS, PSD and CDS and by successive governments led the debt of these companies to unsustainable levels, and to constant budgeting governments pointed the loans to the bank as a solution. It was these policies, your policy options that led the STCP and the Port Metro to the financial situation they are in. It was neither the operational costs nor the workers' rights and wages, as it is intended to be believed, but the political options of successive governments that imposed a deliberate strategy of degradation of services provided to the population and of attack on workers' rights, as it is seen, in the more than 100,000 extraordinary hours done by the workers of the CTS, as well as in the 140 daily services that are not carried out due to lack of workers. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the privatization or private concession of STCP and Port Metro is contrary to the will of workers and populations. It does not serve the interests of the region, it does not serve the national interests. Private operators want profit. Lines or services which are not considered profitable shall be liquidated. This delivery to private means putting profit first, in front of workers' rights and the provision of a fundamental public service, public transport. Privatization is the commitment that the Government assumes to be on the side of the private, denying the right to mobility to populations. The PCP rejects this path and presents a project that repeals the surrender to private public transport management at STCP and Metro do Porto, as well as the open competition, as well as proposes the strengthening of human resources that respond to needs. The defence of public control of these companies is a fundamental pillar for the realization of a true strategy of mobility, district and regional, to promote more social justice, to promote the economic and social development of the district and to guarantee the people a true public transport service, oriented towards the common good and not for the profit of private operators. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u154	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a speech by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: STCP and Metro do Porto are two key companies with regard to the transport sector in our country and, in particular, the Metropolitan Area of Porto. The Government's desire to privatize STCP is to materialize an attack on which it has been built for decades and is clearly an ideological choice for those who want to destroy the public transport supply. Let us look at what is stated in the STCP concession contract and how people will be affected by this choice. The government says: 'Well, quality will not be harmed'. We look at the contract and, after all, «the face does not hit the cheek». It can be seen that the company that wins the competition — and we already know who won the contest — can grant up to 60 % of the current network. in practice, there is a company that receives and is intermediate to subcontract up to 60 % of the service currently provided by STCP. We ask: But will there be a renewal of the fleet? Will we see an improvement in the quality of the buses? The answer is « no ». In fact, even the Government itself, which initially envisaged a requirement for new buses to be bought within the maximum of five years of age, now came to reform the competition, at the request of the privates, to become up to eight years old and therefore an older fleet when arriving in our country. We therefore see that not even the service currently provided is safeguarded, because it is said in the contract that can be reduced to 10 %. In addition, the areas that are currently public areas, below the height of the STCP, can still be enjoyed by the private. And we are all seeing what might happen: either stores with heavier rents, or, in particular, parks to bloom where there are parks used by STCP today. These are choices that are not innocent and that will not protect the populations, as was demonstrated exactly. This is the corollary of an attack on the quality of service, because today workers who work more with fewer buses and fewer careers than they had in the past are telling us. That is exactly what is at stake, a smaller service provided to the populations. But there's another look. This privatisation will lead to dismissals, and the accounts are made: it is 100 workers who provide service to the STCP that should be hired by the company, because the jobs of them are planned and necessary, but which will probably be fired next, because they are not part of the company's frameworks. Therefore, privatization will also bring farewells. And we also ask: But the Port Metro, which has already had a private management, makes sense that it remains such? The answer is « no ». Private management helped make the profits paid to the company serve to increase the debt, harming what is the state. More: insisting that the Port Metro should be private is ensuring that there is no extension of the network in the next ten years, and this choice is that it is not acceptable. That is why we are with the workers, but also with the populations, saying that both the Metro must be managed by the public side and the STCP must remain public. Another choice is to attack workers, populations and, above all, the public transport service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u156	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government seems to insist that it does not want to understand that mobility, in addition to constituting a right in itself, is also an instrument of access to other rights, especially in a period marked by the closure of numerous public services which the PSD/CDS Government has been making. We all know that privatization of public transport, either through concession or sub-concession, or through any other legal instrument, ends up transforming citizens with rights into customers obliged to fatten the profits of the private sector. in the metropolitan area of Porto, both the STCP and the Metro do Porto constitute the two reference companies with regard to the public passenger transport service and, for this, it is sufficient to meet the number of passengers transported. We are therefore talking about structuring companies in the organization and dynamics of the entire Metropolitan Area of Porto, public and public service companies which, as they can only be, have as their main purpose the service to the populations. Despite having an excellent prestige among users, which has been acquired over time, these companies, the result of intentionally deliberate strategies by governments, not only of this but also of others, have been weakening public service to citizens. This is the case, for example, of STCP which in 2013 was obliged to use more than 93 000 hours of extraordinary work and, however, still has about 140 daily services which are not performed due to lack of effective drivers. It is therefore not necessary to make a great effort to realize that the degradation of the service ends up as a first step in justifying any form of delivery of its management to the private sector. The formula is simple: the supply is reduced, the reliability of the service is reduced, the waiting time is extended, the transport securities prices are increased, some of the night services are ended and the way for these companies to be delivered to the private sector is thus opened. In view of these facts, it is clear that the government assumes, as a political objective, the privatization of companies, thus reaffirming its ideological nature and once again showing the difficulties of this government in living with everything that is public. It should also be borne in mind that the successive management of these companies have been and continue to be the choice of governments. The Port Metro has a debt close to EUR 4 billion and, if it is mismanagement, it is also the responsibility of whom it has appointed the managers. But, worse than debt, it is the government's plans: that debt will always be assumed by the State and for the private will be the profits of the exploitation. After years of investment in infrastructure, equipment and fleet, we are now preparing to have an increased loss, since private management will only end the maximization of profits, throwing out of the priorities the public service of the interest of the people, which is what should be underlying the objective of these companies. These are the reasons why the Greens are proposing that the Government not only cancel the public tender for these sub-concessions but also that it enables the hiring of new workers to fill the gaps currently occurring in these two transport undertakings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u158	For an intervention by the PSD, Mr. Virgílio Macedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two parliamentary groups of opposition parties presented various draft resolutions aimed at canceling or revoking tenders for the Sub-concessions of the Port Metro and STCP. With regard to the Parliamentary Groups of the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, it is natural and it is understood that this claim has to do with, above all, its usual ideological prejudice regarding the private initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u160	You want to deliver everything to a Spanish public company!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u161	In relation to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, this claim is nothing more than a chapter of its current ideological identity crisis, which, in addition to finding itself in this matter, is seen in the advances and retreats on the most diverse subjects and often in the absence of opinion. I recall a recent chapter, when Dr. António Costa tried to catch Syriza in the victory he won in Greece, but, in parallel, he went running to Badajoz to paste the PSOE, which parallelly competes with the Podemos, in terms of ideology, in Spain. Finally, the Socialist Party is today a true ideological catavan, with few convictions and therefore, most of the time, without duly substantiated opinions. Concerning concessions made in the transport areas in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, I recall that who launched the first concession of the Port Metro in 1998 was the Socialist Party in the time of Eng.o Guterres. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u162	Who, in 2009, again launched a new concession of the Port Metro? The Socialist Party, in the time of the government of Eng.o Socrates. Now, under the shadow of a statement of reasons that are no more than a pile of generalities and the tow of the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, they are again calling for the annulment of these concession contracts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has no prejudice to public management or private management of public transport. For PSD, the important and fundamental is that a quality public service is provided, at the lowest possible price for users and with a lower fee for taxpayers and that, in parallel, ensures the necessary investment. The contractbooks of these two concessions provide assurances that this quality of service is ensured. The booklets of charges, remember, were discussed and discussed both with the Metropolitan Council of Porto, and with its authorships. With these concession contracts, it is ensured that more, better and more efficiently is done. Efficiency, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very grateful word for the PSD, but unfortunately for Portugal and for the Portuguese, it is a word that the PS often forgets. The new Metro and STCP concession contracts will provide annual savings of EUR 9, EUR 5 million and EUR 5, EUR 8 million for taxpayers. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are your doubts about the advantages of these granting procedures? I answer: with regard to the parties on the left, their reluctance has only to do with ideological issues; with regard to the Socialist Party, their reluctance has to do with the lack of decorum in dealing with these issues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u163	You need to get out of the way to say these things!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u164	For an intervention by the CDS, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by quoting a colleague for whom I have regard and regard, who is Mr. João Paulo Correia, and who, in the discussion of the 2011 State budget, said on this subject: « Debating public transport in the current environment and in the demanding framework of budgetary and economic objectives imposes a greater sense of responsibility on political parties. We are therefore faced with a subject which is the target of greater propaganda poisoning, either on the right or by the extreme-left parliament.' So let's discuss this with some serenity. [[PS protests.]] I'm not the one who says it, it's the Socialist Party Member! I would say that the Socialist Party, on this matter, does not surprise me, because the Socialist Party lives a void of ideas and an Agenda for the Decade, whose decade is still to be identified and it is that party that has now turned all its attention to the elections. Therefore, nor did he need to make a draft resolution, it would suffice to copy the draft resolutions of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, which say exactly the same thing— « cancel yourself », « revoke yourself », « do not do so» — even when he is responsible for making and making mistakes that this government does not make today. We might ask, but is the STCP network going to be different? No, it will be the same — that is what is contained in the book of charges — in fact, it will even be a little bigger. Will the rolling stock be modern? Yeah. « Ah, but the age limit is not five, it is eight! », says the opposition. He advised the parties to be a little more rigorous and professional in the analysis of these data. Therefore, they should talk to the sector to realize that the fact that this limit is of eight years increases the capacity of the national industry to play. That is to say, it also protects many of our circular material suppliers who may also, perhaps, compete. But does it improve or worsen the conditions of accessibility to means of transport? Worse? Oh, my God! I can't see where this is written in the order book! What is planned is the best European and world practices on this subject. It is clear that the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party will say: « We want the situation to stay as it is».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u166	No, we don't! It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u167	Now, maintaining the situation as it is means that the State will continue to inject money into public transport companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u168	taxpayers' money!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u169	... means that taxpayers will always be called to an ever-increasing effort and that we will reach a time when the difficulties of the State will call into question the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u170	That's with you and the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u171	What we want to do is keep all the public service under conditions to improve regularity, fluidity and service. And I'm not going to give any other example, because I'd like to look, just for the Port Metro. Is the Port Metro today a modern, efficient, reliable transport model that provides an excellent service to populations? In fact, it provides such a good service that it is of the few that has significantly increased the number of passengers. I could say: well, maybe because it's reliable, because people when they want the subway, it exists, there are no strikes, the carriages don't stay on the platform systematically. [[PCP and BE protests.]] But it's not even because of it — and I know it bothers VV. Ex., but it's not because of that -- it's just because it's good. It's good, it's modern, it works at time and it has a good offer. And perhaps it needs to be extended. So we have here an example of a company that does not need to be fully public in order to provide a good service. What the State has to do is ensure the public service and ensure that the company fulfills its contractbook, which thus has to be demanding and must be defined. This was the discussion I would like to make. What is said here in the book of charges, simply, is not true. There is, in fact, a competitor. And this competitor provides services, for example, in France, in Perpignan. I will therefore say, on behalf of the CDS and the majority, that if we achieve savings to the state — and here savings to the state can amount to EUR 150 billion over 10 years — and at the same time maintain a public service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u172	But don't keep it! With privatization, don't keep it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u173	... bring to our sphere a better model of management, the modernisation of public transport management, improving equipment and rolling stock, improving the service offered to passengers, bringing to more passenger public transport and preventing them from using their own transport, in the sense of better environmental sustainability, thus, I think it is possible to achieve here a collaboration between State, private and autarchies (because the autarchies are not beyond what is the objective definition of the network, supply and what must be a good model of transport in the Metropolitan Area of Porto ). So I think that this is the best way to do the worlds. What do you need? The political parties, the authorities and the government must have good sense and seriousness in the debate. And I would like one day to be able to do this debate in these terms. however, on the left side, we will always hear « what is public is good, what is private is bad». And on the side of the Socialist Party, it will depend on the circumstances, because when they are in the government, they privatize, privatize badly, and, when they are in opposition, they oppose and do harm. But there, I can't do anything, that's a problem of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u174	And the honourable Member has the problem of not having time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u175	I'm done now, Madam President. I just want to say that while the Socialist Party is in opposition, the public transport service will be defended—and that is what matters. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u176	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I must say that there is a debate that we are not going to enter, which is the debate that most people want to create with the Socialist Party about which "he threw the first stone" for the privatization of transport. in fact, what this story shows is that with several « first stones », public transport has always been « stoned » by the various governments. And that reality is that it has diminished the quality of public transport. But there are important issues. How will quality increase if, in the tender for the sub-concession of STCP, we have a possibility of reducing the company, opening up 60 % of its sub-contracted operation, probably with lower conditions? How will the quality be extended when the government itself has revised the requirements for the age limit of rolling stock from five to eight years? In fact, even this attempt to "cover the sun with the sieve" on the part of the CDS does not match what people know. But now, where is it that even that intention, which the CDS has now mentioned, that the port metro, being good, can be extended, is foreseen in the contest? He's not! In fact, the guarantee is exactly the opposite: it is that, being private, it will never be extended to the network in the next 10 years! [[Go, go!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u178	That's the guarantee, because profit will rule. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And that is exactly where there is the difference between these two benches, between the benches of the majority, subservient to a government that has an ideological agenda and that attacks the populations, and ours. Defending quality public transport is defending quality public management. And, in fact, there is an essential aspect here: it is that those who do not know about quality public management are the majority, but that is what the administrators have chosen. And if they don't think they've chosen well, sirs. Members of the majority, we have been able to choose better. But we guarantee that public management is better than private management, because the first one is not looking for easy profit or doing business at the expense of the population. This is the ideological difference on our part, it is the one that defends the people and does not want to give a business to the private people to live at their expense. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u179	Again, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the speech of the members of the majority is the discourse of escape to the responsibilities they have throughout this process and in the situation of the STCP and the Port Metro. It is important to remember that investment in circulating material has been made by all taxpayers, for now, by a political option, to be delivered to private or to any company abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u182	What is important and constitutes the fundamental solution is the financing of these companies, the strengthening of human resources and the maintenance of these companies in the public sphere, as proposed by the CFP in this project. Therefore, it is not your surrender to any private dealer or foreign dealer that will be the solution for these companies. In fact, we have several examples of what the privatization of companies that were public enterprises meant: from the dismissal of workers to the degradation of services provided. These are the examples and are the consequences of privatization. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] This is the reality that you want to apply to the STCP and the Port Metro. For that, they don't count on the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u183	Also for a second intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there are political reasons for the government to cancel these sub-concessions. But we know very well that the government has aversion to everything that is public. There are also reasons of a legal nature: there are doubts in granting, there are suspicions of illegality, there are doubts about the status of the winner. It is because, after the announcement of the winner — and indeed the only competitor — doubts arose as to the eligibility of the TMB ( Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona ), because under the rules, in particular under European rules, an internal operator receiving public subsidies is prohibited from participating in international competitions. And it is forbidden to participate in international competitions, even though it holds only a minority position in the competing consortium, which is, in fact, the case. Now, the TMB is also constituted by the Metropolitan Railway of Barcelona, which is a public society that manages the Catalan transport network. Therefore, if it includes an internal operator — which is also confirmed by the former Director of the Barcelona Metropolitan Authority — the TMB is unable to participate in international competitions. In fact, it was for this reason that the TMB was excluded from the first stage of the invitation to tender for the granting of transport in Malta. Therefore, in addition to political reasons, there are also legal reasons that should lead the Government to consider this decision to hand over public transport from port to private.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u185	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Send the common sense, send the rigor, send the transparency, send the interest of the Metropolitan Area of Porto and send the interest of the users of Metro do Porto and STCP that the Government cancels, revoke this competition. And who says it is not only the PS, it is not only the opposition ; it is the PS, it is all the opposition, it is the representative association of the sector and all the camera presidents of the Metropolitan Area of Porto whose councils are covered by the service of Metro do Porto and STCP. The only merit this majority and this government have achieved was to join the Porto region, the Porto Metropolitan Area and the Porto economic agents against this competition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u187	This contest is injured in credibility. And because you are hurt in credibility, you call us all to distrust the financial viability that is generated by this contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u188	Why is he hurt in credibility? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u189	We only have one competitor. No national operator competed, no operators operating in the national territory competed. We only have one consortium competing. In view of this, there is a great strange and distrust of the financial viability of this competition. It is important to leave here two fundamental questions, for future memory. We don't have the government here today, but we have the majority, so it's important to keep these issues on record. I therefore ask: does this majority guarantee that there is no compromise with the Spanish consortium in order to authorize an increase in kilometres to ensure higher remuneration? A second question, for future memory, is this: does this majority guarantee that no change in the current contract will arise in order to ensure the financial viability of the Spanish consortium, in line with what is contained in the parts of the competition? These are two fundamental questions to which the majority should answer and to which the Government, which is not here today but should be, should answer, so that we could all be duly clarified that we are facing a big trick, plus a trick, of the government, which will seriously harm the users and the Metropolitan Area of Porto. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u190	The debate on draft resolutions Nos 1220 / XII ( 4 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) ( PS ), 1190 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ), 1251 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1252 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE) and 1255 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens ). We will move on to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 705 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Repeals special mobility and the legal regime for retraining workers in public functions ( PCP ), 748 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Common system of mobility between civil servants and civil servants ( PS ) and 704 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revok the requalification scheme ( BE). To present Bill No. 705 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr Jorge Machado has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Neither PS mobility, nor PSD / CDS requalification. The CFP proposes the repeal of these two mechanisms, which are the foreclosure of the unfair dismissal of thousands of public administration workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u192	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u193	contrary to what the governments of PS and PSD / CDS said, these two mechanisms do not aim to improve public administration, do not aim for mobility or requalification; they aim, yes, dismissal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u195	When discussing the special mobility of the PS, the CFP stated : « The aim of this diploma is not to improve and reorganize the Public Administration (... ). The aim is to put into supranumber thousands of workers and create mechanisms that lead to their dismissal." When discussing requalification, the PSD / CDS, we said: « The government intends to legalize dismissal, without just cause and arbitrary, in the Public Administration, which violates the Constitution, to promote the greater collective dismissal ever made in our country». The reality came, unfortunately, to give reason to the PCP. Recently, the Minister of Finance denied Minister Mota Soares, who "joined together" that social security workers would not be fired. Days later, and confronted by the Secretary-General of the CFP, it was the Prime Minister himself who confirmed his intention to fire. The mask's down, the propaganda's down. What is actually at stake is the replacement of workers with rights by precarious workers and by new forms of free work. It is only thus seen that, while promoting this process of layoffs in social security, there are more than 800 workers in outsourcing, thousands of employment-inclusion contracts and trainees working for free for the State. And it is a process of reconfiguration of the state. The aim is to destroy and degrade public services to deliver them to the private sector and thus promote millionaire businesses, at the expense of workers' rights, at the expense of the State budget. It is only thus seen that after having destroyed more than 90 000 jobs in the Public Administration since 2010, the Government announces that in 2015 it intends to fire more than 12,000 workers. What is happening in the process of the so-called'requalification in social security' is indeed revealing the intention of the government and the consequences it will have for the Portuguese. The dismissal of more than 600 social security workers, followed by those of other services and ministries, will have an impact on the reduction or destruction of important services, which are now provided by these workers. In order to understand what is at stake, it should be noted that the government wants to fire workers from areas such as microfilming, the user care centre, technicians working with CPCJ (child and youth protection committees) and the family and minor courts, children's educators and technicians working with children with special educational needs. They are workers, many of them over thirty years old, who perform fundamental functions and are now excluded — even those who have diseases and disabilities above 60 % — and only employment-inclusion contracts, internships and the possibility of privatizing services. The CFP proposes the immediate revocation of the requalification and thereby ending the dismissal without cause in the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u196	To present project No 748 / XII ( 4. ( a ), by the authorship of the Socialist Party, has the floor of Mrs Isabel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the outset, the Socialist Party opposed the requalification regime, alerting the labour and social implications that this regime would result in being excessively burdensome, with the sole aim of pushing workers to join the friendly termination programmes. Anyone, in an attentive look at this matter, easily concludes that, with requalification, nothing else has been done but to weaken the social conditions of workers and broaden the range of reasons for which services can adhere to this measure, including the mere reduction of budgetary availability, when it depends solely on the government within the State budget. The fact is that the mobility scheme has already provided for training at all stages of the process and, if that were the real motivation of the government, it would suffice, in the application of the law before in force, to take the necessary administrative initiatives to that end. What the reality shows is that this regime, called "requalification of workers in public functions", has not gone from subterfuge and has promoted the purest of mystifications. The process under way in social security confirms the worst expectations in this area when applying this process to a weak area of human resources, with very visible consequences, particularly in the manifest lack of capacity to respond to the needs of citizens, thus not understanding any rationality to the extent adopted. As regards the requalification for the exercise of new functions that gives the title to the procedure now used, this is a mirage to date, since no concrete proposal for the frequency of any training programme has been submitted to workers, nor has any possibility of reinstatement been offered to them. With the introduction of the draft law now under discussion, the Socialist Party proposes the repeal of the requalification regime and transitional re-establishment — I would like to stress very well the word 'transitionary' — of the mobility regime established by Law No 53 / 2006. in this bill, we propose a mandatory evaluation, with a view to a well-founded review — the link, to a well-founded review — of the law, which will have to be duly weighted and debated with the unions and workers. Weighting, dialogue and evaluation that have been lacking in the creation of the requalification scheme. With this project, the need for change in the direction of the construction of a management guided by objectives of modernity, quality and proximity to citizens, while at the same time defending the social conditions of workers and public employment, while ensuring the necessary conditions for promoting training throughout this process. Because this initiative is reasonable, we feel we deserve the approval of the House, remaining the Socialist Party willing to accept amendments in the field of specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u198	To present Bill No. 704 / XII ( 4. ( a ), by the authorship of the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block brings to the discussion a bill aimed at revoking the requalification process. We said from the first hour that the word'requalify' had a concrete meaning. Requalify, in the lexicon of the government, means to say goodbye. Of course, Pedro Mota Soares, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Maria Luís Albuquerque, Minister of State and Finance and the Secretary of State of the Public Administration tried to lubricate public officials saying that requalify meant exactly to acquire new skills, to restore people according to their career, and out there. Well, this lie they tried to pass had a very short leg. And here, except when the first social security process emerges, giving body to the law of requalification, based on two other lies. We're talking about the third lie and I'll talk about the fourth. First of all, the government said that it would start the process of retraining in social security because there were many workers, six hundred and anything, who had no duties. Secondly, he also said that, even those who had functions, they were inadequate, better saying, in the lexicon of the government, that they were inadequate to their professional category. Then came to propose the requalification process. We all know that in requalification, workers earn in the first year 60 % of the salary in the second year 40 % of the salary and we also know that long-term employees or employees with contracts in public office after 2008 do not have the second part of the requalification and that their contract ceases after 12 months in the requalification process. This too clarified, in a very clear and timely manner, the Minister of Finance, since for three or four weeks we heard here a number of government members saying that, objectively, no one would be fired. Now, this is a lie because objectively there are people whose contract ceases and, when that happens, what comes next is dismissal. And it's a worse dismissal, because these dismissed workers don't even have access, like the private workers, to unemployment benefit. Therefore, the clear objective of this law of requalification is not a greater and better adequacy of the services and their employees to the responses that these same services have to give to society increasingly demanding and therefore must be of quality. What is meant is to withdraw from the services important groups of workers—and this process in social security is the living example of this—to degrade this same quality of services. That's why this process has to stop. This process aims at dismissal and is in line with the government's policy to dismantle social functions of the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u200	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Men's memory is short,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u202	It's going to start the pong-pong...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u203	... but not enough to make us forget that, one, it was the Government of the Socialist Party that, in 2006, created the special mobility regime; two, it was the Government of the Socialist Party that, in 2009, consecrated the possibility of cessation of the employment bond to employees who had been admitted from that date ; three, it was the Government of the Socialist Party that, in 2011, recognized the need to adapt the special mobility system to best practices. Made this intro, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be said that the requalification regime in public functions had, and has, a very clear and very simple objective:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u204	Say goodbye!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u205	... it is to replace a model of mobility that did not follow, that did not guide, that did not form, by a model of requalification that, truly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u206	Send to the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u207	...requalifies, which invests in workers, who invests in their knowledge, who invests in their experience, creating conditions so that they can be successfully reinstated. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Well the opposition may believe in the force of the repeated lie, but it will do him no good because the lie will never choke the truth. And the truth, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this model is about retraining and never dismissal. [[PS and PCP protests.]] in these circumstances, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not accept either the immobilism or the hypocrisy of the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Socialist Party, which, as opposed to the modernization of the State, prefer that everything be as before, that the Portuguese be destined for a tax burden which, we know, is high to sustain a state that is unsustainable. In these circumstances, we also do not accept that the Socialist Party, Mrs Isabel Santos, wishes to return to the past, a past and a model which, yes, penalized the workers, who ostracized them, which would refer them to an ad eternum shelf, which — listen well, Mrs Deputie — assumedly intended to refer the workers to the private sector! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u208	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Three draft laws are under consideration — of the PCP and BE, proposing the simple and simple revocation of the requalification regime, and of the Socialist Party, proposing the amendment and the return to the way they had in 2005 and to what they had created in 2006. The projects of the PCP and the Left Block are basically based on the following: this is a lie, that is a deception, that is a pretext to send to the street, to fire thousands and thousands of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u210	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that at this moment with this government, the 3898 people who have gone through retraining are all at work!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u212	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u213	They cannot give me an example of an employee or employee who has been fired. They cannot say this: "Mrs. Maria Vitória went to requalification and, after six months, one year, 12 months, they terminated her contract and went to the street. Here's the proof of thousands of redundancies. » Not one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u214	So to say that this is a lie is ugly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u215	Like your projects, these, yes, are supported by a lie that you are spreading to deceive people, nothing else has to say. As for the Socialist Party project, I find it extraordinary! Mrs Isabel Santos, who created the requalification was the Socialist Party, who created mobility was the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u216	Is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u217	... who even introduced the possibility, that we withdrew with this new model, of immediate dismissal from a person when sent to special mobility was the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u218	How can it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u219	It's not possible! Open... [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u220	Question: Mrs Isabel Santos was not sitting on this bench when what I had to say was approved by the Socialist Party? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u221	I think I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u222	For God's sake! You must have a shame and a minimal shame! Do you know the difference, Mrs. Isabel Santos? It is that, in the time of the Socialist Party, people who went to special mobility were divided into two categories: a minority, who were the friends who were going to special mobility to win and have another job; and a large majority, who were ostracized, sent to the "plaster", forgotten, and to whom was not even given the opportunity to requalify. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] With this law, we are giving people an effective opportunity to requalify themselves, to acquire new skills and to be reinstated in other State services. Mrs. Members, this graph that I show you—if you want, I would ask for it to be distributed—is an elucidative example of this: the transition of people to requalification and mobility in the ministry and to be subsequently relocated to other ministries in other State services. It wasn't a single person on the street, it wasn't a single farewell, it was all requalified. I would like to say more: the other big argument used indifferently on the whole left is that this situation is causing chaos and disruption in services, particularly with what is now happening in social security and with the lack of frameworks there. I would like to report some figures: sickness benefit — the average deferral time has been reduced with this government from 6 days to 2 days; unemployment benefit — the average deferral time has been reduced from 8 days to 5 days; social unemployment allowance: the average deferral time has been reduced from 29 days to 9 days;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u223	You're not fooling us, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u224	Take it easy, Mrs. Carla Cruz!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u225	... family allowance — average deferral time decreased from 32 to 20 days; effectiveness — rose from 62 % of the applications processed to 83 %. These are just a few examples.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u226	And that's enough, Mr. Deputies. You're gonna have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u227	I shall conclude, Madam President. Not only is this requalification process much more respectful of the dignity of public administration workers as it is not causing any problem to the effectiveness of services, on the contrary. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u228	For a new intervention, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, be calm. The debate has not yet ended and there are still a few more things to say. With some calmness, Mrs. Isabel Santos, let me say the following: I accused that the previous special mobility scheme was supposedly aimed at sending workers to the private sector and their bench was in great turmoil. Let me, then, remind you of the words of the Minister of State and Finance Dr Teixeira dos Santos, delivered on 21 July 2006. I would like to read what Mr Minister then said: « Special mobility is a process that opens public officials to a professional future that can be based on entrepreneurship or on the private labour market». [[PS and PCP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. I continue to read: « Let us not forget that the private sector, together with the State, has an essential role in our strategic purpose, assumed since the government took possession. » And then Mr António Gameiro said: 'Very good, very good'! We would therefore like to leave a word to the Government. These options are good options and have commitments and results. Special mobility is an option that the Portuguese, especially civil servants, have long claimed and that this government recognises and powers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u230	Also for a new intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u231	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, you have denied the tacit of what Mr. Minister for Finance said. It is that anyone who came to Parliament to confirm what we said, namely that this requalification process led to dismissal, was exactly the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u232	Don't spoil your words!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u233	As such, you can return to the Minister all the accusations that you have made to us because, in fact, these charges belong to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u234	Tell me the facts, don't talk about statements!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u235	And since they all talk about the truth, the truth is, with this process of requalification, everything will get worse. I would like you to compromise today with two questions. They should leave the promise that no worker and no worker in the requalification process will be terminated. And they should also leave the promise that no worker and no worker who is part of the requalification list will be replaced by employment-inclusion contract workers. If you are able to give these assurances, I can even consider that they have some common sense, because these assurances are fundamental. Minister Pedro Mota Soares and respective State Secretaries said for two weeks that it was absolutely false that there would be dismissals, which was categorically, and well, denied by the Minister of Finance. But the Minister went further: she said that there would be no layoffs in social security, that there were 12 000 prospects!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u236	That's not said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u237	This is in the state budget report! It's there, black in the white!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u238	You can conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u239	So this is the beginning of a process, which is a process of dismissal. And it's not worth you guys going through guilt making a certain ping-pong game, because whoever has the responsibility for requalification is this government. Have the courage to take it! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u240	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We see here a lamentable exercise by the PSD and CDS-PP benches, in which they literally play with the lives of people, throwing responsibilities for the PS, with semantic games, and knowing very well that what they propose to people who go to requalification is to live with 40 % of their salary after being one year in requalification. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, contempt for people is so loudly that we want to echo two concrete cases. One is the case of a social security worker in the area of children and young people at risk, with 22 years of service, who is an oncological patient, with 80% disability, and who has been sent to requalification. The other case is also a social security worker who has multiple sclerosis, with 60 % disability, and who has also been sent to retraining. This is how most PSD/CDS-PP treats people!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u242	Tell me the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u243	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u244	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u245	They are facts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! More: Mr. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira and Mr Artur Rêgo said that the Minister for Finance lied to Parliament. It is that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have assured the House of the Republic that it was a dismissal process, and they have said so in all their letters! They've assumed that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u246	Do not devert what has been said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u247	Mr Artur Rêgo spoke of a service that has no workers, wanting them to go to requalification. I give an example of how this situation attacks public services: Guimarães’ CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) is working today only with volunteers, has no social security officials, because they were all for requalification, that is, promoted by this PSD/CDS-PP government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u248	This is a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP, with this diploma, in addition to revoking mobility, proposes that all workers covered by the requalification process return to their original duties without losing or diminishing their rights. For the CFP, it is possible, urgent and necessary to stop this process. There can be a policy that respects workers, values and guarantees the public services that the April Constitution has guaranteed for the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u250	With no further inscriptions, this item on the agenda is completed. We turn to petition No 433 / XII ( 4. (a ) — Submitted by Ana Patrícia de Almeida Bonifácio and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to recognize the competences of architects as set out in Law No 31/2009 and to express itself against the proposals of lein. 226 and 227 / XII ( 3. ( a). Each parliamentary group has 3 minutes. In order to start this debate, Mrs Carina Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the mobilization of these 16 500 petitioners, who defend their professional positions, with all those who are their arguments, their ambitions, obviously, and all their convictions. Architects, engineers and engineering technicians, I would like to begin by saying, very clearly, that architecture and engineering are both recognized professions of public utility in society. There is no society without engineering, as there is no society without architecture. They are deep professions and closely linked to human development. And the sharing of common market spaces, among these professions, is historic. It is classic the statement « architecture for architects, engineering for engineers », but the borders, that is, what are the common spaces of these activities, which are played in many fringes, have been subject to legislation, much of it controversial and always disputed until 2009. Law 31 / 2009, of 3 July, allowed some balance, which was then achieved with the support of professional orders. What was achieved was a historic compromise. I want to leave a public record recognizing the role of professional orders, both engineers and architects. The responsibility and seriousness of these organizations are pillars of these professions and are also recognized beyond borders, which makes Portugal very proud in the world. By means of transpositions of Community directives, we have on the table the proposals of lein.os and 227 / XII, for which this particular petition is raised, which are being amended in these areas. These are bills that are being examined in detail, in the specialty, by the working group for the construction sector, in the Committee on Economics and Public Works. The management of work, the supervision, the project, the calculation and all these limits to the professional activity of these classes are in in-depth legislation in this working group, where it does not only assist architects, as it does not only assist engineers, nor other professional classes. That is why the discussion of these two diplomas is pressing. from the PSD, I want to make sure that it makes sense to respect the legislator's spirit in Law No. 31 / 2009 and we will do everything we can to guarantee it. There is market for all, whether for engineers or for architects, or for technical agents, and that is where we have to walk. I can say that I hope to build bridges of understanding between all the political forces in this House, so that there is a common scope in the treatment of these diplomas. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u252	Mr Paulo Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by addressing a first word to the 16 500 people who have subscribed to this petition. In addition to welcoming these petitioners, I would also like to remind the petitioners who subscribe to the first legislative initiative of citizens that led to the adoption in 2006 of Bill No. 183 / X in this House, at the time when many stress the deterioration of the quality of political life in Portugal, it is very important to welcome the petitioners and their intervention in this petition and this legislative incentive, which later followed a law passed in 2009, through a proposal made by the Government in 2007 through the Ministry of Public Works at that time, which, 36 years after Decree No. 73 / 73, affirmed the importance of ordering, sustainability, the quality of construction and its consequences in changing the landscape. Law No 31 / 2009 introduced demand, rigor and responsibility. Through a profound work of consensus, both with the different parliamentary groups at the time and with the representatives of the different professional orders and representatives of the different professions involved, it was also possible to recognize the competences of the various technicians in the processes of urbanization and construction and finally justice was done with the architects, who were unable to exercise the competences for which they had the appropriate qualifications. Recently, the Government has decided to amend this Act No 31 / 2009 by submitting proposals for its amendment. The petitioners argue that this Government proposal prevents architects from carrying out their professional activities, prevents them from exercising, inter alia, the role of management and the direction of supervision. According to the petitioners, the government is causing a civilizational retreat that endangers the safety, quality of life and the rights of citizens. in this House, work on this proposal presented by the Government is taking place. in these specialized work, the Socialist Party will, as always, defend balance, consensus, work and consultation, but will, above all, defend the right that everyone can exercise the professions for which they are properly qualified. It is in this spirit of work, of consensus, but also of recognition of the deep civilizational advancement that represents Law No. 31 / 2009, that the Socialist Party will make its voice heard in these specialized work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u254	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we wish to welcome the petitioners, those who are present and all who have brought this petition to the House, beginning by pointing out, as rapporteur of this petition, that the parliamentary procedure now being fulfilled here has been carried out, on our part, in a deliberate manner, so that we could thus consider and reflect on its content in good time and take it into account in the legislative process of the proposed laws in question. That is why the option was not so much the extension or extension of debates, but essentially the speedy treatment of the petition. Therefore, appointed the rapporteur, the petitioners were heard a week later and the report adopted in the Commission the following month, at the same time as the budget debate, with the conditions in question. In view of the situation in which the majority has placed the legislative process of a work in the specialty which, in practice, has been interrupted and suspended for months, without any discussion so far, there are serious situations, in some dramatic cases, which have occurred on the ground and we will now, we hope, that concrete developments will take place in this area. When this petition declares before this House the opposition and clear rejection of the proposals of lein. 226 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 227 / XII ( 3. ( a ) gives greater strength to our position of denunciation, to our vote against, to our demand for another path and to other political options that we need to follow in the area of construction. As the CFP has successfully denounced, the two diplomas aim to replace the interdisciplinary nature of the different specialties by technical polyvalence, with the aim of providing companies with the highest number of requests with the lowest effective of specialized technical frameworks. It is the consecration of precariousness as a rule and the figure of construction companies without staff or technical bodies, who put personnel at the start of each work and send them - although when the work is finished. It is the threat to the quality of specialized work, subjecting the overwhelming majority of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to half a dozen large groups that dominate the market. The two diplomas also illustrate a deep lack of knowledge regarding changes in the design and communication processes to the work, in particular with the generalization of the use of computer tools and their impact on the direction and monitoring of construction works. And the same is true of the reality of a sector such as that of civil construction, whose crisis approaches the collapse, which was already evident in the hearings held at the beginning of the specialty. What is at stake, after all, in this debate and in this petition is the role of architecture in society, architecture as a technical culture, ethics, deontology and whose vocation must be linked to the public interest in building in the city and ordination of the territory and which, in this sense, tends to be placed in a field opposite to the speculative private interest that these proposed laws and policies in which they fit come to protect and privilege. Architecture is not fully autonomous in concrete social conditions and dominant policies. The fact that it is subordinated to these diplomas is significant of the government's political options. We must not fail to answer in particular two questions raised in this petition — the direction of work and the famous Decree No 73 / 73. The CFP has already presented proposals for amendments in the field of expertise to establish the recognition of the qualifications of architects for the exercise of the functions of the management of work and of the direction of supervision of work. I conclude by reaffirming the exact words I spoke on behalf of the CFP in the debate of 12 years ago on the petition also then designated by « right to architecture » on 21 May 2003. We then said: 'Since the need to tackle a situation which has been temporary for 30 years is obvious and irreversible, we cannot ignore the importance of not incurring the inverse error, which is precisely not to guard against the many situations of professionals and institutions on which this change will have an impact'. That is to say, we know that it is a way we want to go, we cannot ignore that there are concrete people and institutions, today, on the ground, from North to South of the country. There is an attempt by the insidious and dangerous government, as it is evident, that it is to turn the legislative process into a corporate conflict, depoliticizing the debate and placing professional classes and workers against each other. from the PCP, we want to make it clear that for this they do not count on us. What they will have is the denunciation and repudiation that this attitude deserves. With these proposals of government law and this policy, workers are harmed as a whole, as well as the various professions, populations and the public interest. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have a lot to do, in our specialty, about these bills. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u256	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u257	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a petition concerning two bills, Bill No. 226 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) establishing the legal regime applicable to the pursuit of construction activity and the proposal of paragraph 227 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ), which is the first amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July, which establishes the professional qualification required for the exercise of the activity. First of all, I would like to congratulate, in the person of Ana Almeida Bonifácio, all the petitioners who have signed and brought this matter to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic, bringing a set of concerns that are, I would say, absolutely legitimate not only of society in general but also of Portuguese architects. This petition concerns some legitimate concerns with regard to the coordination of the project, issues related to the management of the work, with the supervision direction and also with matters related to the extension of the transitional measure of Law No 31 / 2009. First of all, we must ensure that our legislation adapts to the demands of the Community directives. In addition, we must also contribute to social peace and professional balance. All professions are necessary and each of them must be framed in society in order to contribute positively to the safety and well-being of people. It should be recalled, however, that the proposals for legislation are not yet closed, and the same was the subject of a serious review and discussed in order to improve the text. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works itself set up a working group for this purpose, which has raised enormous responsibility for all parties. Hearings have been made, hearings have been made, opinions have been collected, an effort has been made to find the ways of consensus. in these studies, the contributions of the various professional associations and orders have not been neglected, which have enriched the discussions. The professional associations who wish to work with the Economic Commission thus have an active participation in the debate process that is taking place in the working group and which is not yet completed. Having said that, part of the concerns that bring us here are being reviewed and may be altered, so as to contribute positively to the various professional organisations, but above all in order to implement a law closer to Community requirements and people's safety. We are therefore working in a sensible way to ensure that the laws are as balanced as possible and that they serve the challenges of the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u258	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u259	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I also begin by greeting the petitioners. The right to architecture is something to which the Left Block attaches enormous importance. Architecture has only one functional instrument in this debate, but it is a greater cultural good. That is why we have tried, in our own time, to consecrate it even as a constitutional right. This petition covers amendments to the 2009 Act. Much has been said here about balance. The law of 2009 is a balance! That law is that it is the balance, which was built at the end of many years. It also includes a transitional period and a set of negotiations, from concessions on the one hand to the other, understanding that there were concrete people, concrete professions, situations that passed through the country's long past of weaknesses and the most diverse circumstances. But today, if we talk about concrete people, respecting all professional categories, it is also worth remembering that Portugal is currently a net exporter of architects. Therefore, we also have to look at these concrete people and the ability to enjoy the technique and the cultural condition that gives us architecture. What cannot be found in this debate is a dual political attitude, which is to understand that the law of 2009 is very important—in fact, it resulted from a legislative initiative headed by Architect Helena Roseta, at the time Bastonary of the Order of Architects—and then we can make it possible, the pretext of anything... If we are to see in detail the so-called transposition of the directives that is unintended in the bills, we see that it is a mere pretext for a change in the balance that was established in 2009. It is nothing else, as well as the pressure of concrete companies and not exactly the professional situations of such individuals. from there to make a very practical appeal, evading a great pragmatism: let these bills be left waiting for them to expire in this legislative session and in this legislature; we find another space, because it will not be this, certainly. It's not worth the ladies. Members of the majority come here to talk about social peace. The problem is not social peace or changing any conditions from the point of view of social struggle; it is about respecting the law of 2009 and giving it enough time to live. Why for now this revisionism of the 2009 law? It makes no sense at all! There is no balance sheet, there is no evaluation and, quite the contrary, there is not even the completion of all the useful functions that were provided for in the so-called right to architecture for those who have the exact qualifications necessary and sufficient to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-12.u260	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries, so this last item on our agenda is thus concluded. We shall resume our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the agenda in a thematic debate requested by the Government under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on decentralization. This debate has a grid of time itself. There will be regular votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 5 minutes.]]
