ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, whom I welcome, Mr. Journalists and Mr. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. As today we have a reasonably long record to announce, I give the floor to Secretary Paula Cardoso to do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 291 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Turns the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into Order of Officials and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 173 / 98 of 26 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations as well as the opinion of the Chamber of Official Dispatchers, which falls to 10. the Commission, with connection to 1. the Commission ; 292 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Official Auditors, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, as well as the opinion of the Order of Official Auditors, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 293 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Turns the Order of Official Accounting Technicians into the Order of Certified Accountants, and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 452 / 99 of 5 November, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which also falls to 10. the Commission ; 294 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of the Economists, approved by Decree-Law No 174 / 98 of 27 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; 295 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Architects, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 296 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Biologists, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 297 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Dentists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 298 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Pharmaceuticals, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; 299 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suitable for the Statute of the Order of Nutritionists to the regime provided for in Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 300 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Statute of the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, conforming it to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 301 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 302 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 303 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 304 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 86 / 95 of 1 September adopting the basic law for agrarian development, which falls to 7. the Commission ; 305 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Procedure 36. the amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, transposing Directive 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and establishing the criminal identification system of convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and child sexual freedom, which falls to 1. the Commission ; and 306 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the process of recognising the situation of the rustic and mixed building without known owner that it is not being used for agricultural, forestry or pastoral forestry purposes and the registration of the building which is recognised as such in accordance with Article 9 ( 2 ). o Law No 62 / 2012, from 10 December, which goes down to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolution No 1313 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by supporting the International Film Festival of Troy ( PCP ) and Parliamentary Assessment No 135 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Decree-Law No 38 / 2015 of 12 March, which develops Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, which came to establish the Basics of the Policy of Management and Management of the National Maritime Area ( PS ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u3	We will start the first item on the agenda, which, as you all know, consists of the urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on public policies for education and qualification of Portuguese. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, in the framework of the urgent debate, the opening is made by the party responsible for the initiative, in this case, the PS, and by the Government, to which a round of speeches from parliamentary groups will be followed. Therefore, to begin the debate, I give the floor to Mr Acácio Pinto of the PS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the four decades that we've been in democracy, a government has never been as far away as the present of a broad consensus on public education policies. Under the ideological baton of Nuno Crato, in the last four years, the Portuguese education system has been and is being thoroughly altered with the ultimate objective of disqualifying and minimizing public school and investigating the equal opportunities of Portuguese. The consequences are there. The results and examples show them. The retention and withdrawal rates since 2011 have doubled in paragraph 2. the cycle and the 3rd cycle of basic education increased by 25%, more than 8000 students left public and private higher education and enrolled in 2014 less than 34 000 than in 2011. The formation of adults has fallen to the peak, even being non-existent in recent years, due to a pure ideological prejudice of Nuno Crato and Passos Coelho. in professional areas, vocational education was created, but as a way of early selection and flow of students who failed to succeed in the system. And what about the granting of credit hours for support to students, but only to students of schools with good performance in exams and tests? What about the other schools? And what do they really need? Those are segregated! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Well, these results and examples can only deserve a broad fight, which the Socialist Party has always fought, as international assessments have certified. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, but this VIP model of Nuno Crato is also deeply influenced by great disrespect and high technical and political incompetence. The most grueling example of incompetence comes from the beginning of this school year, from the placement of teachers, in which week after week and month after month the Ministry did not agree in the formula and in the way to place teachers — a disqualification, a horror film for schools, for students, for families and for teachers. But the lack of payment to professional schools and specialized artistic schools is not left behind. It is another example, quite cruel, of the incompetence and disrespect of the Ministry for these schools. And here was the fault of everyone, never of the Ministry, who never deserved to apologize to the schools and teachers who had been without a salary for several months. Regretably, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But disrespect doesn't stay around. It also continues at the level of works in schools, which are numerous throughout the country, to demand works, without any plans in the past four years to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u5	All right! [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u6	The most recent example is that of the National Conservatory of Music, a palace with roofs to fall and closed rooms, for which after these four years of governance have been made available, please, EUR 43 000, an example covering ridicule both the Ministry and the entire government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u7	It was better in the time of Gabriela Canavilhas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a portrait, necessarily synthetic and non-exhaustive, of the state of education in the last four years in Portugal. This is the result of the implementation of Nuno Crato's "neoeducés", a system with forbidden words, a system with classification deliriums, a system that banned the concepts of competence, the concepts of science of education, a system that raised the exams of nine-year-old students and the disrespect by teachers to divine concepts. No, this is not our way! This road has failed! Schools need another look, a new future, they need to breathe, have a true and strengthened autonomy, an autonomy that enables them to do, after all, what they always know how to do in partnership: teach, train and qualify people and territories. This is the Socialist Party's commitment here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] From then on, a commitment to the Basic Law of the Education System, which Nuno Crato disrespected and offended, a commitment to an inclusive school, a successful school, a school that does not live crushed by electronic platforms and by notifications of the 5th October Avenue but which is released for the exercise of teaching and learning. A commitment to a school that is not afraid to make education for citizenship a central element of its daily life, in line with what the European Union... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and all international bodies advocate that the PS has already presented in the Assembly of the Republic. It will be a system without the hallucinations of curricular and programmatic goals, which knows how to respect the initial training of teachers and organize teacher contests with fairness and justice. I shall finish, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, repeating that this path has failed, we will not follow it, and saying that, in respect for equal opportunities, greater value than education should serve, we will be able to conclude a strategic agreement for qualifications, we will be able to improve the quality of public education service and we will be able to return tranquility to schools and educational communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u9	At the opening of this debate, I give the floor by the Government to the Minister for Education and Science.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that brings us here has an impact on public policies of education and qualification of Portuguese, and, in the present request, it is said that education and training are strategic foundations for the future. We couldn't agree more. It was to think about the future that we successfully and calmly implemented compulsory education up to 12. year. This school year is the first year in which all our young people are covered by this enlargement, something that should pride us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u11	Well remembered! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u12	We made English a compulsory discipline for seven consecutive years of schooling, a structural and strategic measure of qualification of our students. We have strengthened vocational education. We created new offers, vocational education and professional higher technical courses, we approached educational offers to the needs of the labour market and strengthened the link between companies to basic, secondary and higher education. This is to qualify and the data are visible: the percentage of the population with the qualification of higher education or equal education, aged between 30 and 34 years, rose in 2014 to 31, 5 %, having grown 7, 5 percentage points in the last four years—in 2000 it was 11, 3 %, in 2010 it was 24 % and we are today at 31, 5 %. It's a remarkable growth. But we need more and, therefore, we have improved social action in higher education, so we have created the + Superior and the Retomar, so we have created the TESP (professional higher technical courses). It is a positive development that is in addition to others. The dropout rate, measured by the number of young people between the ages of 18 and 34 who did not complete secondary school or are in any form of education or training, fell dramatically. Of 28, 3 % in 2010 continued to decline in recent years, now reaching 17, 4 %. But it is necessary to qualify with quality and, therefore, we put greater emphasis on essential knowledge; we strengthened external evaluation at the end of each cycle; we set curricular goals in various subjects of basic and secondary education; we give more conditions to schools to improve the success of their students, with support, co-adjudication, additional offers; we assigned more autonomy to schools, to be able to take their choices, and more incentives, above all, but not exclusively, to those who can make good use of their additional resources; we promote equity in education, allowing great curriculum flexibility, decentralizing competences for schools and municipalities. We have also contributed to the value of teaching. First, we give greater stability to the profession, with the application of a norm-work which prevents the hiring of teachers from being made year after year, without limit and without a link to the tables. This is historical progress, breaking with a practice of decades. at the end of this legislation, they will be linked to the Ministry of Education more than 4000 additional teachers. Secondly, we have worked and reduced the so-called zero-hours to a historical minimum. Third, and because we want them always to be better prepared to teach in our schools, we introduce more stringent conditions for access to teacher training courses, with the requirement for entrance exams to Portuguese and Mathematics; we promote the reinforcement of scientific components in the teacher training courses in the subjects they will teach; we establish the proof of knowledge and skills, with two components. And because we know the fundamental role that operational assistants and technical assistants play in our schools, we update the portfolio of ratios, allowing a better response to the needs of schools. But we did more: we invest in transparency and information, giving everyone the power to know, monitor and improve the school. Today, we have the InfoCourses Portal, the InfoSchool Portal and the Qualifications Portal. All this is investing in the future. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're on the right track. This is already recognised in many international reports. And, we have no illusions, in education, the ease does not compensate. We want to gradually reduce retention rates, but not merely on economic issues and never artificially. We want the students to pass by, but we want them to know. The fragility of knowledge can bring much higher costs in the long term, both for the student and for the State. The retention rate of 34, 3 % of our young people who took the PISA test in 2011 and which appears in international reports is something that should make us reflect, and it is good that this reflection is being done. We share with the CNE and with the recent report by Eurydice and Cedefop the recognition of the need for early follow-up and a bet on professional education. That's what we did and we're doing. Since 2011 we have established a set of coherent and essential elements to promote the real success of students. We have increased rigour, but we have introduced active measures to promote success. I have already mentioned the curricular goals, I have already referred to the system of incentives for additional hourly credits and I have already referred to curriculum autonomy. But let me stress that schools today have autonomy in their educational times and in the total hours of each discipline. They have autonomy to increase the time devoted to the disciplines in which students reveal greater difficulties, have autonomy and hourly credits to begin immediately the follow-up of students who manifest difficulties. These credits may go up to 150 minutes per week, at the hours of teachers of 1. the cycle, and 100 minutes in the rest. Schools have autonomy to manage an extraordinary follow-up of 1 students. o is 2. cycles that do not achieve satisfactory final results. Schools have autonomy and resources to form relative homogeneity groups, to give particular support to groups of students with specific characteristics. The schools have autonomy to organize coadjuvations, being the teacher holder or the teacher of the discipline accompanied by a colleague, and for other activities of compensation and pedagogical support. Schools have autonomy to create vocational education courses in close coordination with companies, an alternative of response to students who want to opt for a more practical and intensive aspect of teaching. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not solve problems for decades for mere exercise of will — will, we all have. The problems are solved with consistent strategies and solid bases. That's what we did, and that's what we keep doing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u13	We now move on to the speeches of the parliamentary groups. by the PSD, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria is already registered. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Education and Science: The Socialist Party has scheduled this urgent debate. The requirement that justifies it is no more than an insistence on the narrative of the destruction of the public school, a narrative that puts it to the most radical left tow, a narrative that does not fit with the role it has and has in the construction of the educational system, a narrative that uses as a slogan, in an attempt to disguise its inability to present credible alternatives in the area of education. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u15	Looks like they want them in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u16	The country demands more, our students deserve more and the easy and hasty criticism should be avoided, in the name of the consensus that the educational community always demands and deserves from all political decision makers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But more: with this debate, the Socialist Party wants us to forget that the biggest attack on public school took place in 2011 when it took the country to pre-bank, without money to pay wages and pensions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u18	What future was the PS building for our students? What future was the PS building for our teachers? What future was the PS building for our schools? A government breakdown that, in the area of education, was ironic but sadly baptized by the former Minister of Education, Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues, such as the party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u20	... the party of the School Park, a party where no maximum investment limits were defined by school, as criticized by the Court of Auditors, and whose invoice we continue to pay and pay hard.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u22	This unfortunate expression will remain for history as a symbol of uncontrolled public accounts and inability to recognize the mistakes committed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite financial constraints, the government has never stopped taking education as a priority. Moreover, this Government has proved, over the past almost four years, that even with these constraints it is possible to improve our education system. It is that the problems do not all be solved by increasing budgets, that is more important how resources are spent than the amount spent on education. Among other measures, this Government has strengthened the students' essential knowledge, such as Portuguese and Mathematics, and to date we still do not know whether or not the Socialist Party agrees with this measure. He made English compulsory discipline for seven years, which means that from 3. the year of 1. the cycle students will have English. Does the PS not consider this a good measure? He valued professional education, seeking to establish a strong link to the business fabric. Does the PS not agree with this connection to the business world? He put more psychologists in school—I believe the PS recognizes this effort. But this government has done even more. The schools have more autonomy; the government will link, until the end of the Legislature, more than 4000 teachers; it has decreased the zero hours; it has created the conditions for, from next year onwards, primary and secondary schools to have more teaching staff; it has valued the quality of teaching and has promoted its stability; it has increased the international competitiveness of higher education and science; it has strengthened the innovation and transfer of knowledge to society and the economy; it has increased the value of scholarships and the number of scholarships awarded in higher education; it has implemented professional higher technical courses. Mr Minister for Education, the results of these and other measures contradict the the thesis of the destruction of public school. Let's see: Portugal has risen 15 places in the world ranking of the World Economic Forum's competitiveness, with education making a decisive contribution to this rise. This report marks a significant increase in the overall quality of our education system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u24	The rate of early abandonment of education and training continues to fall. In 2014 it was 17, 4 % less 1, 5 percentage points compared with 2013, and less 5, 6 percentage points compared with 2011. The higher education rate of the resident population aged between 30 and 34 years is on the right track: in 2011 it was 26, 7% and in 2014 it was 31, 3%. The pre-schooling rate at 5 years reached 97 % — in 2010 was 89 %. The schooling rate between 5 and 14 years is full and the school rate between 15 and 19 years is above the OECD average. [[PS laughter.]] And it is even the OECD report Outlook 2015, which, for its part, highlights the work done in the field of vocational education, placing Portugal in the group of countries that have most invested in measures to prepare students for the labour market, highlights the efforts and results achieved in combating school dropout, stresses the increasing autonomy given to school groups and the effective extension of compulsory education up to 18 years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I quote the words of Prof. David Justino, President of the National Council for Education : « Portuguese students have a performance and have achieved a relative level that the economy and social development in Portugal are far from reaching». We underline this idea and are convinced that the educational policy of this government has strengthened this path. We know that there are always problems to solve and delays to recover. in this way, it was decisive the help, understanding and work of the entire educational community, to whom today we want to thank again and, because today is your day, especially to parents, that every day they participate and collaborate with their educational community. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u25	The next intervention is the Socialist Party, which appears to be divided between two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I ask you that the division does not turn into a multiplicity of time. Mr. Agostinho Santa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mrs State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: First of all, we note the enthusiasm with which the banks of the majority received the speech of the Minister. It's symptomatic. Form, immediately, questions in the area of pedagogical efficiency, curricula and promotion of success. In time to balance the educational policies of your Government, let us make clear to you, Minister, about the monitoring and evaluation of the measures with curricular implications that have been taken. Who was involved in this process? Who's heard? What studies, what data on adequacy and impact generated? Do you recognize any negative aspect in the curricular investment followed? One of the impulses of this Ministry was a movement of imbalance following learning and overall appreciation of the student, remedying difficulties, formative and summative evaluation. Do you not think that the focus on the quasi-total evaluation of examinations and final tests and their results led to the decentralisation of pedagogical practices, of the essential objective of learning, in an examination outcome, in a note dictatorship, in a demand for results at any price? This option, ideologically polluted, did not bring perverse effects on the dynamic relationship of teachers, students and parents with learning and the perception of the essential? Isn't it true that the curriculum was unbalanced and became impoverished? Is that not an example of overestimating disciplines subject to examination, leading to disinvestment in other disciplines? Induction of training for exams does not compromise contact with learning that is essential to the student’s evolution, leading to greater inequality and segregation? And what do you have to say, Minister, about amputation and / or breakdown of sequencing in disciplines in the fields of expressions and physical education, technical and technological education, arts, information and communication technologies? Does the Minister not accept that it was a gross mistake to destabilize the area of citizenship by eliminating civic training in practice? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u27	Do you know how many schools have offered discipline related to citizenship? Was the effectiveness of the alleged transversality evaluated in other disciplines, or was everything summed up in total deresponsibility? The fixation, squeezing the fetish, in the exams was even to the point of assigning credit hours to support students being made to schools with better grades. Was it not essential to strengthen support in schools with students in difficulty? Does the Minister feel comfortable with the use of the exam results, without even contextualization that reflects the expected value of each school? And he exists, as you know. Do you agree to incur even the injustice of the journalistic treatment of the ranking of schools? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u28	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Odete João.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have listened carefully to Mr Minister and we cannot fail to note that the Minister is still living in the country of wonders, and that is not the real country. We're going to increase compulsory education. This was a measure of the Socialist Government,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but we all agree that this implementation, that design must be everyone's. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria said that the number of graduates aged 30 to 34 has increased. Of course, sir! But when did they go to higher education? Surely it hasn't been the last four years! We are with the external evaluation, but we see that the retentions have increased in an abissal manner. I'm speaking now, ladies and gentlemen. Members of this government team has broken down with the Basic Law of the Education System ( LBSE ), which is also in line with the report recently published by the European Parliament. The last four years were black years for education in Portugal. I speak to you about the destruction of equal opportunities, with the referral of students to vocational or professional pathways as second-class choices; the degradation of inclusive school, with the worsening of the inequalities of students with special educational needs, taking care of the fairness of the responses to these students; the overestimation of some disciplines to the detriment of others, which aggravated the overall formation of the student; the distortion of the curriculum matrix of 1. the cycle—and here it is not surprising to note that in the report of the Ministry of Education itself, it can be read that in extracurricular activities more than 600 schools of 1. the cycle ceased to have the offer of English. This government has exterminated the offer of adult education. And in the State Budget plan, education, which should be a priority, is no longer a priority. With regard to the report of the European Parliament, I am quoting only one of the measures that goes against what has been the impact of austerity on the right to education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u30	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u31	I'm done now, Madam President. At some point, the European Parliament's report reads: 'This government has returned to the early selection of students, through national examinations implemented at all levels of education, in order to direct students to less successful career routes, a logic of early selection, and degradation of the situation and the importance of vocational training. Vocational training pathways are accredited to be less quality. The most educated parents normally do not allow their children to light these pathways, even when they show learning difficulties».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u32	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u33	So, Minister, after 150 000 students reprobate each year, after only 30 % of adults are in training and the scandalous increase in failure and dropout of school, what does the Minister have to say to the Portuguese about the failure of their educational policies? And it's not enough to apologize to them! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u34	The CDS-PP intervention is followed. Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate, unfortunately, is the debate of the foreseeable. Nevertheless, I must confess that it was with some expectation that, three weeks after having marked an urgent debate to speak today about education and with its parliamentary journeys in the middle, the PS would finally come to Parliament to tell what its proposals for the Portuguese education system are. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u36	But it wasn't today. Madam President, I know that the Rules of Procedure and the model of the debate are not binding on this, but I think it is a shame. It is unfortunate that the Socialist Party occupies a central place not only in this Chamber but also in the Portuguese political and parliamentary spectrum, and by withdrawing from the equation of those who have concrete proposals on education for our country, it only leaves this majority, as interlocutors, the leftmost parties. E, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are interested in history, you can look for what the school means in communist regimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u37	Is it starting? Oh, my God! It's still four o'clock!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u38	That is why, Madam President, the question is that why the Socialist Party has nothing to tell us about what it would do in the education system. I don't know if the Socialist Party is afraid to compromise or is afraid to have more sense of state. After all, when he uses a sense of state, he deeply resents socialist co-legislators, particularly his Secretary-General. [[Protests by PS Member Odete João.]] But I would like to say here, Madam President, that the Members of the Socialist Party should not be afraid to go to the game. Members of this majority and members of the government play every day in defense of school, families, teachers and students. Don't be afraid, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, because people are not afraid of who has something to say either. But until you lose your fear, Madam President, we are going to be in this caricature situation: the Socialist Party marks an urgent debate to talk about a topic on which you do not have a single proposal to submit. Madam President, I do not know if we can consult the Diaries to see if this has ever happened. Despite everything, I don't want to be unfair and I mean that there is something apparently the Socialist Party does well, which is the diagnosis. Recently, I was talking to Mrs Galriza Neto and I asked her if she knew about a hospital that needed a differential diagnostic team, because six or seven Members of the Socialist Party who could be surrendered would do wonders. [[Protests by PS Member Odete João.]] This I thought before the debate, because then, listening to the gentlemen. Mr Acácio Pinto, Mr Agostinho Santa and Mr Odete João — who, in fact, is trying to interrupt me — I have checked that the Socialist Party neither in the correct diagnosis, because it outlines a scenario, supposedly looking at what international studies say, and fails completely. Mr Acácio Pinto, what does the OECD say in the latest Programme for International Student Assessment on, for example, autonomy? He says schools today have more autonomy. Moreover, this government has increased its autonomy contracts from 23 to 212, and, more importantly, it would be better. What does PISA say about end-of-cycle exams, with a second phase? He says it's good, because the second phase is used to recover the students who fall into the first phase.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u39	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u40	The 2012 PISA, Mr. Deputy! I'll give you the page if you want. As for the reinforcement of the hourly load in the structuring disciplines, i.e. the curriculum review, tells OECD textually: students today arrive with more than one and a half hours of Mathematics than in 2003, and that is good for their learning. The only measure — I found one! — the PS mentioned here, by the voice of Mr Acácio Pinto, that they have to finish the curricular goals that do not work. It says the PISA 2012 : curriculum goals give coherence to the learnings of 1. the 12th. year. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Sir, it's extraordinary! But we could talk too much. We could talk about the subject of the works. Mr. Acácio Pinto, I make a challenge to you: I had saved, at every school in the School Park, a Siza Vieira lamp, a small marble from Italy, and had done works in all the schools in the country, Mr. It's unbelievable what you told us here! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u41	PCP intervention is followed. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister said here that problems of decades are not resolved with will. But, look, Minister, the truth is that achievements of decades are destroyed with a few years of PSD/CDS government. Today, four years after this government is in office, we have a public school with less means, but with much more problems. After four years of government there was a 6% reduction in the number of students, but there was a 21% reduction in the number of teachers. So today, we have less means to deal with the challenges facing public school. Even when compulsory education was expanded, there was a reduction in public investment in education of more than EUR 2000 million. So tell us, Mr Minister, how you want to make 'omelettes without eggs' and how you want to guarantee the quality of public school without ensuring the appropriate means. The Minister and his Government insist on a model of recruitment that is based on precariousness, instability and an unfair and inadequate form of recruitment. We have tabled proposals for amendments to the diploma of tenders, which provide exactly a single, national, professionally-ordered list—is the fairest system. But no, the government insists on a model that this year, at the beginning of the school year, has caused chaos in schools, is still taking damage on the learning of each of the students, and this government says: more of this is needed, more problems are needed and more instability is needed at the beginning of the school year. The Minister insists that students not be guaranteed the whole school manual and the payment of study visits. Will you or will you not guarantee, once and for all, school textbooks to all those who need them and expenses? Will it or will it not guarantee students with special needs the support they need or, on the contrary, will it continue to condemn thousands of children and young people in this country not to have adequate technical and material support, condemning them to discrimination and violating fundamental rights in their lives? He told us about updating the portal. Mr. Minister, tell us what it is to update the door. Updating the office won't be hiring the employees who are needed in schools. To update the portal is to continue to use thousands of employment-inclusion contracts. Mr Minister, tell us how many thousands of workers you have in schools to open the door, to ensure security, to ensure surveillance and Mr Minister does not pay the salary to these workers. There are thousands of workers in this situation. Tell us what you will do to ensure your effective hiring. There are thousands of workers that the Ministry has in this condition. Also tell us what you're going to do about art teaching. The CFP has proposed that the State budget cannot be replaced by the POPH and the problem in vocational and artistic schools is a political option of this government, which replaces the State budget by POPH. This is what Mr. Minister says that the schools of art and professional education in Lisbon and Tejo Valley and Algarve will be dependent on Community funds and on the instability that this generates in schools. It's the other way around, Minister! What's needed is the opposite. What is needed is another government, it is another policy that involves public investment in education not as a expense but as an investment. Public school isn't a mess. Public school is a pillar of the democratic regime and requires respect by this government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u43	I beg your pardon, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u44	To what effect, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u45	To call on the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u46	What is the basis of the appeal, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u47	Mr President, in order to restore the truth, I request that the report of the European Parliament be distributed to the different banks, that is to say, on the four years of governance of this team, not the 2012 PISA, which referred to reviews implemented by the Socialist Party on 9. year and 12. the year, and not the measurement evidence, not the examinations of 2. is 6. the years implemented by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u48	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u49	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u50	To call on the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u51	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u52	Mr President, I would ask that a document be distributed which under the Rules of Procedure I shall present: this is the PISA document 2012, box 3.4.1, where it is read that national examinations have been implemented in paragraph 4. o, 6. it's 9. the years of schooling. And then every deputy will know when they've been implemented...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u53	They weren't exams, they were evidence of measurement. Be honest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u54	We will continue with the interventions, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u55	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs Deputies, Mrs Members: I will not follow the road map of non-institutional and institutional disputes in which this Ministry of Education is fertile. I would like to ask some questions, for which I would like to try to obtain some political response and a conditional response to the expectations, curiosity and interest of our citizens and citizens in the policy of the Ministry of Education. It is almost idle to say that "October 5" did not only implode as follows, in an avant-garde manner, in conflict with all entities in the area of education. As for the National Council of Education, the Minister, in the previous composition and previous presidency, inter-pares coordination of the National Council of Education, said he had a political agenda and devalued the National Council of Education. At present, it has not devalued it politically yet; on the contrary, it has had some point-based encoments. But there are two well-structured and well-defined recommendations of the National Education Council, one about the special education and the need of the inclusive school, which challenges the government's policy in this area, challenge the legislative basis on which it is inserted and contrary to what has been the attempt, in fact today, the delay and the government's failure to legislate and, above all, to solve the problems of inclusive school. More recently, there was another recommendation from the National Education Council — in fact, both were unanimously approved — about the excess of compulsory education retentions in Portugal: 150 000 students are plummeted per year. It is a huge economic loss, it is a huge pedagogical loss, it is a huge loss in the capacity of school groupings to have the synergies necessary for good performance of students and students. Why? Also due to an educational policy directed by this Ministry, which I have often called « acute examination », because it is an early, continuous, constant selection, is the study for the note. It says the National Council of Education that another educational policy is needed that leads to the integration of students, curriculum balance and early detection capacity, changes in educational modes and compensation capacities. Everything contrary to the policy directed by the Ministry, which has been cut, cut, cut and redocratization of school performance. Therefore, it is no longer an intermittent light, it is red lights of the National Council of Education that have come to be very exuberant to the Minister of Education, on which nothing is said. The culture of ease, Minister of Education, is not the problem of selection. The culture of ease, of which I acknowledge it, is the culture of social ease, because, with the type of educational model that has been developed, it facilitates in segregation, social cleavage, social selection. It's the social selection you're doing at school. That is the culture of ease, that is the easiest of all because it is the simple inertia of the system. Mr President, I shall address one last question to the Minister of Education on the competition for the placement of teachers in the area tables and the work standard: five consecutive years, complete, in the same recruitment group. As you know, this derives from the imposition of the European Union, which the Government tries to fill after more than two years in which it did not want to know about the situation of the hired teachers, now creating a set of injustices which are all attacks on the constitutional principle of equality. What does the Ministry of Education have to say about the situation of teachers who are 17, 18, 20 years of employment and who are unable to access because they were not, by administrative errors, of the system, or by any other circumstances, five consecutive years complete in the same recruitment group? This is, of course, a negative discrimination, a violation of the constitutional principle of equality and, I believe, a complaint to the European institutions. In any case, it is a discriminatory attitude of the Ministry of Education and therefore absolutely unacceptable, that teachers today are reprovoking and causing the revolt of thousands of teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u56	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u57	Madam President, Minister, who heard your speech, if you did not know the reality of the country, would eventually have the idea that we are in the realm of charms, that everything is a wonder! The words most focused on Mr Minister's intervention were 'we created, we did, we did', which was reinforced by the intervention of the PSD. However, Mr Minister, I was listening to you and at the same time thinking, why are the teachers complaining so much? Why do so many other professionals of education complain? Why do students complain so much? Why do families complain so much? No one understands. But, Minister, please explain to this House why this is happening, why this widespread discontent happens. Why does anyone have the view that Mr. Minister has of reality or is Mr. Minister who walks a little in the air and does not understand the reality that happens in Portuguese public school? Why do parents complain that their children with special educational needs do not have the support they need in schools? Why do parents guarantee the Assembly of the Republic that there are fewer teachers to support students with special educational needs? Why do teachers complain that, in view of what the Ministry of Education imposes, they spend more time with bureaucrats and other tasks than doing what they should be doing at school, which was teaching and supporting their students? Why is it that if Portuguese universities say they are strangled because of lack of funding, Minister? Why does this happen? Why is there mass abandonment of higher education students for financial reasons, because they have no money to pursue at this level of education, Minister? Why do psychologists who are in schools guarantee to the Assembly of the Republic that they are unable to support all students who have to support, when other colleagues are unemployed and at home because of the Ministry of Education, who do not want to hire them, even though they are necessary in schools? It is in this 'kingdom' that the Minister considers that everything goes to the 'thousands'! You don't understand, Minister! Now, Mr Minister, do you want to explain to us, for example, what is going to happen at the Lisbon Conservatory Music School with the simple €40 000 that the Minister has decided to make available? What will this $40,000 serve for? Is this the guarantee of security and operating conditions for that school? Mr Minister, you are in fact walking in the « kingdom of heaven». Sit your feet on the ground, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u58	To conclude the first round, I give the floor to Mr Education Minister, who asked that the answers be given in conjunction with the honourable Members. State Secretaries. You have the floor, Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify some aspects, starting with the latter which Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has raised, or of the €43 000. Mrs Deputy, these €43 000 correspond to the budgets presented by the school, according to the needs considered unsatisfied by the school.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u60	Do you understand now, Your Honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u61	43 000 euros is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u62	So what we are doing is simply solving an immediate problem. The Socialist Party laughs at this problem is absolutely extraordinary, because this problem has been going on for decades. The problem of the National Conservatory has been for decades and we can present and discuss the whole problem, since the award of works, at the time of the Socialist Party, which did not go forward. It's a matter of seeing the matter again. [[PS protests.]] at the end of four years of great financial difficulty, we are recovering and, through the School Park, works were done by the authorities. Now, at the end of this year, there will be 21 more schools recovered by the School Park and we will have some fire and some possibility of looking forward. And let's look forward to the National Conservatory. But no one is wrong: the National Conservatory has at least two types of works, urgent and immediate works and basic works, which need to be done and which we will begin. We have no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u63	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u64	There is a story about this which is also worth thinking about. Mr. Agostinho Santa spoke of hourly credits for the best schools. It is appropriate to read what is written in the organizational office, because what it says is not true. Pure and simply, it is not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u65	It is to read the Council's opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u66	It was I who signed the office and there are hourly credits derived from several factors. One of the factors is, in fact, the quality of the results of schools. But there are two philosophies here, and I'm going to talk about it. Another factor is the improvement of school classifications. A school can improve a very weak result for a slightly better result, which therefore receives additional credits. Show you're on the right track. The third factor is balance, parity between internal classifications and external classifications. The fourth factor is the reduction in school dropout. however, there is a philosophy behind this, which is the following: we must give incentives, we must support that things are done well and not give incentives and support what is wrong. So we have to tell the schools that there are hours of credit available to all schools! And there are additional credits that are made to improve schools, and these additional credits are incentives. If the gentlemen. Members thinking about this is easy because, being all politicians, they know that there is a difference in political science between a premium and an incentive. A prize is one thing that is given once, an incentive is continued.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u67	You should say that to the Minister of Health, to see if he learns what incentives are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u68	We are not simply rewarding schools. It's nothing like that! We are creating a set of incentives for schools to improve, for everyone to improve. But, in reality, we are from a principle: there are a minimum number of credits for schools, so that they all support students who need this support. That is the basic principle. I know that there are two opposite philosophies: one philosophy is to waste resources, the other philosophy is to give incentives for things to improve. These are two completely different positions. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Agostinho Santa spoke of citizenship. It is amazing that, once again, there is the artificial view that, if we have a compulsory discipline for all to teach citizenship, things improve. Mr President, I have just come to a meeting of ministers of education in France at which the French President was present. We have discussed how we will combat terrorism, how we will fight extremism, how we will promote tolerance in our schools, whether religious or racial, whether it is sexual orientation, whatever. The question is: "How are we going to do it? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” All ministers agreed, representing the thought of virtually all countries, although with different nuances, as is evident, with the following: citizenship, firstly, is promoted when school gives its students opportunities. Therefore, the first factor in promoting citizenship is to make school a successful agent for students, giving them professional exits and exits to life. [[PS protests.]] The second factor is not teaching citizenship as something specific, but teaching citizenship as something that appears in all school activity. In addition, there is the possibility that if schools so consider it — the word autonomy is surprising to some Members. Members of the Socialist Party — to create a specific education discipline for citizenship. There is this possibility. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u69	Clearly, that is not going to happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u70	But there is also the possibility that there are general references to what we think and it is necessary, in all these systems of citizenship and democratic education, that are discussed, either in the history classes, or in the Physical Education classes, wherever. They must be covered by school. The less education for citizenship or participatory democratic education is something extracurricular, something apart, and the more something that is embedded in school culture, the more successful we will have, and that is what we have always defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u72	The question of precariousness is absolutely frightening. For decades, decades — we have no memory! — 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years, 5 years, 10 years, 20 years successively, i.e. being hired, recruited, and, contrary to general law, the State was not obliged to provide a stable solution to these people. for the first time, in decades, a solution was found, which has, of course, criteria. They are, above all, two criteria. On the one hand, we have a criterion of justice and, on the other hand, we have a criterion of possibility and respect for the taxpayer. That is to say, we are going to hire and secure the school with regard to places that are necessary. For this, together, we have established a criterion, which is the five-year criterion, successive annual contracts. Why is this a fair criterion? Because it is a criterion that tells teachers that they are in these conditions which have the right to link. This criterion is also fair for taxpayers, because we are not saying that we will simply hire people permanently, we are saying that we contract those who are probably necessary for the system, and some criterion is necessary for that. The criterion found was this. Of course you are. Members may say the following: « No, it is not five years, it is three and a half years; it is not three and a half years, it is seven and a half years». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past, there was no criterion and now there is a criterion, so I think this should be welcomed. That is the fundamental question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u74	There is hope that the hired teachers will be bound and this government has bound 4000. How many were linked to the previous government? I'd like to know, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u75	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u76	As for English, it is also absolutely extraordinary. English was not compulsory discipline in any year of schooling in our country—in no year of schooling! — but an optional frequency offer was required in paragraph 1. the cycle. That is, it was mandatory to hire English technicians no. 1. the cycle, but students were not required to learn English.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u77	Say there how many students had English during that time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u78	I already understood everything: Mrs Odete John prefers English to be optional, but to be given in 1. the cycle and that is not mandatory in any year of schooling, in relation to what we have done, which is English being compulsory over seven consecutive years of schooling. That is your preference, Your Honor. [[PSD applause.]] As for the excess of restraints, Mr Luís Fazenda is trying to put the National Education Council against us on this issue. There's no difference, we're all against excess restraints. We have always said that there are more retentions in our country, that the number of retentions has to be reduced. However, there is a difference between automatic reduction and administrative reduction and the reduction we want, which is the one that all students pass, but pass knowing. That is, we want a real reduction in retentions. [[PS and BE protests.]] It is much more expensive for all of us, not only from a financial point of view, but above all from the point of view that moves us all, that is from the future of our young people, to tell them that they know when they do not know and tell them to progress when they do not have the conditions to progress and thus throw them into failure. [[PSD applause.]] You also talk about exaggerations in the evaluations. n° 1. o, 2. o is 3. the cycles the evaluations are worth 30 % in two disciplines, with an exceptional recovery period. Is this too much evaluation? No, Mr, it is a moralization of the system, it is a regulation of the system that we must begin to introduce, and we have already begun to do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, with your permission, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u79	You don't have time, Minister. You can manage this division of time in the second round. That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall move on to the second round of this debate, with the same order of speech from the parliamentary groups. For the first intervention of this round, Mrs Isilda Aguincha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u80	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: There is no topic on the agenda that the PS wants to talk about or the subject on the agenda is subject to which the PS wants to flee. What's good for Portugal and for Portuguese for PS is bad or it doesn't exist. We're not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u81	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u82	of international studies, the PS can only find the least good indicators—we have heard here today. For PS, valuing positive studies is not relevant, it is not good for Portugal and for Portuguese. That is why I would ask: and positive reinforcements, ladies and gentlemen. Professors, don't you know what that means?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u83	You didn't hear the PS interventions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u84	We're not on election campaign, but the PS is. There are no proposals, only criticisms. There is no PS meaculpa, only criticism, contrary to what this government does, which assumes its mistakes, its responsibilities, but also commitments to the country and to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u85	You didn't really hear what we said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u86	We look at the future with expectation and we want quality, rigor and demand, which is essential for the future of today's young people and men and women tomorrow. So we're paying attention to the country around us. We looked forward to the future, but we are responding to the problems that we have encountered and that we are helping to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u88	So it was with the National Conservatory, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The building of the National Conservatory, as has already been mentioned today, has been degraded for decades. Today, the PS, which ruled, or disgovernmentd, the country, and also education, agreed to the National Conservatory. Nothing did, but today he said it. Fundamental, serious works are being done in schools that lack, with particimony, with respect to taxpayers, contrary to what has happened in the past. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, support has also been strengthened, particularly in the early years of schooling. We know it's true! Technicians, psychologists are in schools, already mentioned here. The school frameworks adjusted to the actual needs of the population today and tomorrow and linked themselves to teachers, which has not been done for many, many years. The PS didn't, we're doing it. We're really doing it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u90	We are committed to the future, the good part and the less good part. unlike the PS, which claims to itself the prizes of what is good and ignores the least good, we recognize the difficulties and great effort of all Portuguese also in education. We're here and we're fulfilling the country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the theme of this debate is « public education and qualification policies for Portuguese ». So I ask: where are the PS proposals? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u91	You didn't really hear our speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u92	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u93	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I do not resist being disturbed by the Minister's intervention with regard to incentives to schools. Indeed, the Minister does not understand, does not understand what the National Council itself came, patiently, to try to explain. It is not only giving incentives to those who are progressing to solve a structural problem with schools that have difficulties, because they are in disadvantaged economic contexts, because they are deprived of teachers, because they have difficulties with their facilities. It is not in the view that this is'sweets', small prizes that we give to the school, rather than realizing that what is missing is strategic investment, although it can be translated into hourly credits, which, in fact, can build a complementary support strategy to those who are in greater difficulty. We do not seem to understand ourselves, but Mr Minister does not respond and does not understand what the National Education Council patiently tries to show.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u95	But what I would like to stress is essentially about higher education, because the urgency of this debate has much to do with the urgency of what is happening in higher education. Overall, we have had a 20-year return on investment in the area of education, but if we look at frequency numbers and again we are going to meet what Mr. Minister said just now - he said that the numbers have progressed significantly in terms of frequency in higher education - we see that the number of graduates has increased, but it is precisely those graduates who have entered before the current government are in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u97	If we take into account what will happen in the coming years, I ask you: what will be the expected evolution given that there are fewer than 34 000 registered since 2011, less 15 000 enrolled for the first time in higher education, despite the increase in compulsory education up to 12. the year, less enrolled than 23 years old, less 1700 teachers in higher education and less than 2000 vacancies? Mrs. PSD Members, don't shake your head! These data are from the Directorate-General for Higher Education, data that confirm the reality of backwardness in higher education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But not only do we have a reduction at the level of this bet as we have every year the same novel, the same difficulty with the CRUP ( Board of Directors of Portuguese Universities) and the CCISP ( Co-ordinator Council of Political Higher Institutes) to say to the Assembly of the Republic at the time of drawing up the Budget, « this is not what the Minister told us in August », « it is not enough what is promised in the State Budget », « we will not have the ability to ensure the functioning of higher education institutions ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u99	This annual uncertainty is destroying the response capacity of higher education institutions and scientific institutions. And here, there is obviously a lack of strategy and vision for these areas. Where is the reform of the network of institutions, which could be the lever for us to rethink the refinancing of higher education? Oh, my God! What are the results of the Retomar programme, which, for 3000 vacancies, had 500 registered and not all were able to recover the frequency in higher education? Oh, my God! What is the assessment made by the political institutes of the offer given to them, of the short-term courses, which has proved to be truly a failure in the attraction of new students and a failure in the financing of the institutions of higher political education? Oh, my God! In conclusion, I would like to respond to Mr Seufert's challenge recently with regard to the proposals, because, in fact, there is disregard not only for this debate, but also for parliamentary agendas, since you do not want to see when the Socialist Party, in fact, says 'present' to the call. And it says 'present' to the call, for example, with regard to the difficulties of higher education students who seek to ensure the payment of their tips, but face the difficulty of mobilizing all the value of the tip at the time of registration. Therefore, we propose the phased payment for all students and the guarantee that no student, until it is effectively paid the scholarship, must be called upon to pay the tip. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More than that: we also propose the uniformization of criteria in higher education fees and emoluments, so that institutions are not obliged and pushed to increase fees for the payment of services that should be included in the tip, through artificial forms that will increase for everyone, without regard to those who are pocketholders and those who are not, the value of higher education financing. And now, too, since the proposals are missing...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u100	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u101	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, since the proposals for RJIES (the Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions) are missing, we have helped and put in the discussion the possibility of reforming and democratizing the functioning of the institutions a little more, waiting for an initiative from the Government, for which we have so many questions, which is the reform of the network of higher education institutions, which simply does not appear. Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a crisis in the education sector that has direct and drastic consequences in the future of the country, because the qualifications are the armor that protects Portuguese against social exclusion, since those who have higher levels of qualifications are able to endure unemployment with another capacity, are able to resist social exclusion, are able to resist poverty. Unfortunately, you destroyed this armor that protected Portuguese families, which encouraged future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u102	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has now tried to amend his hand, saying that the Socialist Party had proposals, in fact, on social action in higher education. Mr President, let's see, these proposals are about five years late.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u105	When the Socialist Party was in the government, how long were the students of higher education waiting for the scholarship, Mr. Deputy? Oh, my God! Shoot me a number, in days, Mr. Deputies! About 100 days? Hello! More than 100 days, sir! There were 106 days, on average, in the school year 2010 / 2011! Do you know how much it was last year? 106 days, how much do you think we got down? For 32 days on average, waiting time between the request for the grant and the final decision on its allocation. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr President, this did not require a lot of investment, it required nothing more than to look at the problem and to identify it, which was what Prof. Mariano Gago had never been able to do in this Parliament, always fleeing the issues of the various sides of the opposition. Of course, it was important to be in the Government who was interested in this matter, Mr. It was also mentioned here by the National Education Council and by two opinions. I remind the House, Madam President, that with regard to special education, the National Education Council has reached exactly the same conclusions and at least at the same time as the working group that the Government has appointed for the same subject. In fact, both opinions were followed politically by this majority in the Education Committee and in draft resolutions. We are perfectly at will in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u106	And you go there and the Minister of Education hasn't done anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u107	As far as lead is concerned, the question that arises, Madam President, I say, is whether lead identifies a difficulty in learning, in the transmission of knowledge, in what the school is here to do, or whether lead represents, in fact, an unanticipated will of teachers or the system of retaining students. It is that if lead serves to understand if what should be being learned is or not being learned well, then we have in them a diagnostic tool, which is exactly what the OECD has said since 2013 when the measurement tests began to count to the note, and this form of diagnosis allows then to act. The obligation, of course, is that of the Government to create mechanisms of action — already mentioned here in the hourly appropriations — but also schools, teachers and families. It is that the question is very simple: the student who has learned well, that always happens! The student who learned does not need to be told if he has a good or bad note, he has learned! The question is whether we can identify the student who had the most difficulties and whether we know or not... [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not be demagogic, because that is exactly how it is! The system is not done to benefit the good students, because they are automatically benefited, it is done, yes, to be those who have difficulties. Good students even could learn at home, they could not go to school... it doesn't matter! The problem is who can't! And ending the exams is not more or less demanding, what we have to do is, with the exams, be demanding with the school, with all the participants in the school, with the parents, teachers, students and, of course, the Ministry of Education and know what answers we have to give to lowering, as in fact, the rates of retention, lead and failure at school have been lowered. The ease of saying that it does not matter, as the Socialist Party said there had to be no restraints — said it in the past, when it was in the government — there had to be no lead, there was no need for examinations, none of this counted,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u108	Stop demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u109	... is to harm, above all, students who have difficulties, because the others, fortunately, Madam President, do not need to be told whether or not they have difficulties, because they do not have them. Those who need to know if they have difficulties — and then they must act on this — are in fact the most difficult students. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Education and Science: We are going to talk about higher education and we are going to talk about the real country that, outside, faces a difficult and dramatic reality that you, with your political options, have created. Let's talk about how, for the sixth consecutive year, the number of young people entering higher education is decreasing, and it's not due to the breakdown of birth, it's even because of the breakdown of family incomes and the unbearable costs for thousands of families. Let's talk about underfunding, let's talk about how government budget money does not guarantee the normal functioning of the institutions. The problem of higher education in Portugal is the lack of students and the lack of public funding. It is urgent to assume as a necessity the strengthening of public funding in higher education. Mr Minister, it is unacceptable that the funds necessary for the payment of salaries have not been transferred to public higher education institutions, respecting the Statute of the Teaching Career, both at the university and at the technical level.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u113	It is unacceptable that there are teachers with dozens of years of service in precarious situations. Mr Minister, let us also talk about how cuts in public funding are offset by the direct accountability of families, through payment of propines, fees and emoluments. Let's talk about how school social action leaves out thousands of students who need these support and are not even eligible for scholarship allocation. Let's talk about how students have to eat in college corridors, with the marmites in their laps, because they don't have any money for the canteen's password.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u114	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u115	Let's talk about how students have to work to pay for what is their right. Let's talk about how students go through dramatic difficulties to study in higher education and thousands are forced to give up their studies. It is increasingly confirmed, Mr Minister, that studying in higher education is not for anyone who wants to, it is for those who can pay. This government is directly responsible for denying thousands of young people the realization of the dream of studying in higher education. It is essential and urgent to strengthen social, direct and indirect action, which effectively responds to the needs of students. Scholarships can't be used to pay tips, they're student support. Mr Minister for Education, it is also urgent to stop this path of devaluation of political higher education in all its dimensions. This is a government that denies access to knowledge, which requires the elitisting of education, which mortgages the future of young people and robs them of their dreams. The CFP advocates a unitary system, with specific tasks, in a public network that meets the specificities and requirements of the different public higher education institutions, whether they are university or political, in a public education network that must also respond to the country's economic, social and cultural needs. The PCP defends a different path. Higher education is an instrument of development in the country, it is not a expense. We defend the end of the tips, the strengthening of the funding of public higher education institutions, the appreciation of their professionals, the strengthening of social action funds, access to free and quality public education for all and at all levels of education. This is a struggle that we will continue to hold fast with confidence. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u116	Mr José Moura Soeiro also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Education and Science: It is really interesting that in the week when politicians and universities come back to the public to say that they can only continue to pay wages, with the exception of other headings and commitments, because the Minister has not yet transferred the EUR 60 million that has to rest in higher education institutions, nothing has said about this. When, on what day is that transfer, will this replacement of the EUR 60 million owed to higher education institutions be made? Oh, my God! It was good to inform Parliament and the country about this. On the issue of scholarships, it was said here that it is true that students who receive scholarship have to pay tip and often in different periods. Now, students who receive scholarships, pockets, should be exempt from propinas, as the Left Block already proposed to this House, but unfortunately did not deserve the support of all the benches. This year, we know that there are 1,000 more students who need school social action, who need scholarship. Specifically, there were 86,576 applications for social action scholarships in higher education, but at the time of increasing need, fewer than 3330 scholarships were awarded. We knew, Minister, that the bags were already insufficient. In fact, it was the lack of scholarships that led to 17 000 students having to borrow in recent years. We also know that most scholarships only serve to pay for the tip, which is a contradiction, because they end up not as a support, but as a tip payment. And we still know that the maximum stock exchange is absolutely residual, that is, it is attributed to about a hundred candidates, in a universe of tens of thousands. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether in a context of crisis, demand increases and scholarship applications, you think it is reasonable to have fewer scholarships. I would like to ask you how many of the 86,576 students who requested scholarships will actually stay out of this support and whether it is available to review the rules of the scholarships, accepting, in fact, the suggestions that student associations have brought to you. The last note is about abandonment. There was great confidence here on the reduction in the dropout rate, but the Directorate-General's report does not tell us that, he speaks to 8,000 students who had no scholarships and left higher education, thus assuming that they have just given up on economic grounds. I would like to remind you that in March 2013 this Parliament unanimously adopted, in addition to the proposal from the CFP, a resolution requiring the Government to submit, annually, a thorough and rigorous report on dropout in higher education. Mr. Minister, this was March 2013! It passed 2013, passed 2014, passed 2015 and the report that Mr. Minister had just presented to this House has not yet been submitted, and it was an annual report. For those who so much invoke rigour in the educational system, this lack of rigor is not good for them who are their responsibilities to the Assembly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u118	Also for an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u119	Mr President, Minister for Education and Science: I was recently listening to Mr. Minister talking about prizes and incentives and I listened carefully to his answer on the question of the Conservatory. And I was here wondering whether the Minister would eventually not want to award a prize, a prize, to the community of teachers and students who, in an entirely determined struggle, started €43 000 from the Government for unbeatable works. Mr Minister, I believe that you should be attentive to this question: what the Ministry, eventually, does not consider unsuitable today for the year can already be.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u121	It is because the Minister knows the state of degradation in which that building is built. So, Minister, sometimes you don't have to reach the limit, you just have to have a little bit of common sense... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and create conditions for people to actually work in conditions and promote good teaching! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know why this is annoying more? Because there's a lot of money for a lot of things and for others there's never money! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u122	For the bank, never missing! For the big economic groups and the great financial system, it never fails! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen, in fact, will soon be dismayed, as soon as we speak of it. For what is fundamental to promoting the development of the country, it always fails. And what does it fail for, too? This logic doesn't make sense. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u123	Minister, what's going on? It has already been said by other Mrs. Members that a student with difficulties, with many difficulties, is that student who is entitled to a scholarship. Only that the student receives the scholarship and, immediately, it is channeled for payment of the tip, therefore, returns it immediately! I would like to know how the Minister feels that these people, with absolute difficulty, are able to pay for food, transport, housing, school materials, which are not few in higher education. Mr. Minister, the students practically don't even see the scholarship: the scholarship passes through them to be immediately returned again! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u124	Mr Minister, there are no conditions! That is why many students also need to... See, you have thus reduced the universe of those students who have access to the scholarship, through the criteria they have redefined, that there are many people leaving higher education when this country needs qualification! Even in conclusion, Madam President, I am going to tell Mr Minister the following — and I think I would not feel well with myself if I didn't tell you directly: I have already met many Ministers of Education, I have already challenged a lot of education policy, as you know, I believe that many ministers have deeply disrespected teachers, but I think that none has come to the point of undermining teachers as Mr Minister has done! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u125	I am talking about what Mr. Minister said, in committee, about the CAP, completely dehuming the teachers and not even taking into account the error of the Ministry of Education itself...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u126	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u127	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that the Minister did not take into account the Ministry's own error regarding the calculation formula, for example, of the school contract. Mr. Minister is very wrong, very wrong! It is very wrong and creates few conditions and little motivation in schools, and that was the best incentive I could give! Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u129	Even at this stage of the debate, and since the Minister for Education and Science asked for the floor for himself and the honourable Members. State Secretarys of State shall intervene, I shall give the floor immediately to the Minister. For an intervention, Mr Minister for Education and Science has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u130	Madam President, I will speak on two matters which Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has just mentioned and then I would ask to speak to the Members. State Secretaries for them to be more explicit on some other issues. The first question, which Mr Soeiro also addressed, relates to the issue of scholarships. It is not the Ministry that says « we will assign 30 », « we will assign 10 000 » ; the scholarships are attributed to all those who meet within the criteria. That's all. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u131	It was 3,000 last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at this issue with numbers: the number of exchanges has risen, the average value of the stock exchange has risen, the criteria have extended and the delivery period has decreased. [[Protests from the PCP, BE and the Greens.]] Of course, we can always say « we want more, we want more, we want more». But the reality is this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, she has to be discussed. To say it's the Ministry who wants to assign less or more bags, it's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u133	So, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u134	On the question of the National Conservatory, I have already explained, Mrs. Member who currently has the funds for works considered unsuited and with budgets delivered by the National Conservatory itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u135	That's not true! They're companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u136	We will move on to the next phase, which will consist of starting the process for the substantive reformulation, which is necessary in that National Conservatory. That's what I said and I think I was very clear. I would now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education to better explain this problem of scholarships and others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u137	Mr. Secretary of State for Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will take advantage of the opportunity to give a brief answer to some problems in higher education. There are problems that have been raised in the effort to present some requisition of old matter. [[PS and PCP protests.]] And I thank Mr Pedro Delgado Alves for giving me the opportunity to review this old matter. First of all, I mean a set of numbers you tried to quote. I wanted to go directly to the crucial point: the number of 20-year-old students in higher education today is 40%. He came to grow regularly, very modest, but he came to grow always.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u139	He's coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u140	Therefore, there was no catastrophe, and if it had happened it would be detected quickly. Simply, the implication of the numbers you gave is false, and this is the fact and the most reliable measure of our reality. [[PS protests.]] We know that over the last 15 years the governments have had difficulty increasing the number of higher education students; we know that this access parked around the year 2000 and that there was no miracle that it could be achieved with several more or less imaginative legislative instruments, which were created. We are finally creating a framework for, with the consolidated institutions, we are able to move on to the next phase. And the next phase is to move beyond this 40 % index. As we know, the Portuguese governments committed themselves in the European reference framework to reaching 40 % of graduates, aged between 30 and 34 years in 2020. This number is guaranteed within a small margin of error. We don't know what's going to happen yet, but within a small margin of error is guaranteed. Therefore, we must now prepare for the next stage. Like other countries in Europe, we need to prepare for this 40 % target for the following objective, which we can easily aspire to be 50 % in the next decade. We are therefore working to maintain the growth of the number of students who reach an integrated degree or master's degree beyond the current number and to get more students there. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And the creation of professional superior technical courses will be an important way to give many young people advanced professionalization at the level of higher education and to give many of these young people the opportunity to become graduates or teachers. That is our goal in this government and it is the goal to continue in the future. I would like to say a word about the scholarships to say the following: the revision of the regulation which was announced a few days ago and which was requested by Mr Soeiro — whose return to this House I wish to greet — will be done, as was promised to the student associations. I have already signed the office of appointment of the working group which will do so in the coming days, not in order to make a great transformation, because the system is sufficiently transformed, as it has already been remembered today, but to adjust some improvement that the students and the working group understand. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u141	Mr. Secretary of State for Education and School Administration now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by clarifying some questions, referring to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who asked us why the educational agents and the parents complain. Mrs. Member, maybe it's because we inherited a situation that has led us to austerity... [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u143	The honourable Member knows that no egg-free omelets are made. And he also knows what has been done and that it could have already been done by those who say they are advocates of social issues but who have not, for example, remembered teachers with needs, with serious diseases. With ascendants or descendants... in the contests, this should be taken into account. We had him, but nobody remembered that before!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u144	Well remembered! [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u145	They did not remember that it was possible to establish, in addition to the brake standard, and that brings teachers to the tables of the Ministry of Education and Science with five successive complete annual contracts, a new salary table for the hired teachers, but we also did. They entered the tables, through extraordinary binding contests, about 4000 teachers, who will enter until the end of the legislature. We have created a number of measures to ensure more stability. I also reply to the honourable Members. Members who spoke about the works, particularly Mr Acácio Pinto, which referred to the works of the Conservatory.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u146	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u147	Mr Acácio Pinto, let us see this ridiculous: in 2005 you launched — to use the words of Mr Acácio Pinto... [[Protests from PS Acácio Pinto.]] Sir, listen to what you're learning. In 2005 they launched a competition in the Diário da República and never executed it. So there was no need for works? Oh, my God! Is there only now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u148	He's been a ruler for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u149	Did you degrade from 2011? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr. Deputies, history with your responsibility does not end in 2005 : in 2008 the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon made a recommendation to the Ministry of Education of the Time for doing works. So, Mr. Deputies, are the needs coming up now?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u150	He's been a ruler for four years, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u151	Mr. Member, I haven't finished the story, just give me an instant to say that in 2010 you ordered to do works through the School Park, but the curious thing is that since 2005 you knew that the works were urgent but were not included in the first phase of the School Park.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u152	Not even in phase two!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u153	Not even in phase two! And then they didn't have any money... [[Protests from PS Acácio Pinto.]] Mr. Deputy, wait, I haven't finished the story yet! In 2010 they ordered to repair the roof and, now here is the answer to your question: why did the companies that made budgets think it was 43 000? Because you did a work there of 276 000! It is necessary to remember, that it is not to live, as Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia says, in the realm of charms, but also not to live in the kingdom of hypocrisy or in the kingdom of illusion and, in terms of Disney, not to see Alice in the Country of Wonders but also not to see Pinoquio. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u154	As the Government still has time to intervene, Mr. Secretary of State for Basic and Secondary Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to answer some questions that have been raised here regarding the concept of inclusive school and, of course, focus our attention on the measures we have taken, precisely to enhance the realization of the concept of inclusive school.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u156	What about her? Where's the law?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u157	We have focused our attention, firstly, on measures to support students with greater difficulties. That was our priority and the priority of our policy. It is not by chance that, in Decree-Law No 176 / 2012 of 2 August, we have entered into a very significant range of measures necessary for schools to fulfil and identify needs in the first years and to act, from the outset, with preventive measures rather than remedies. Therefore, our bet is on prevention and not on remedy. And this set of measures arises not only in Decree-Law No 176 / 2012, but also in Decree-Law No 139 / 2012, which establishes the new curricular matrices and defines the management of the curriculum of basic and secondary schools. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] After the design of this set of measures, we provided schools with a set of educational credits and criteria for the implementation of educational credits that allow schools — all of this linked with the strengthening of their autonomy and with the management capacity to be given to schools — can better manage the measures that really solve the problems identified in the early years of learning. This was our priority at the level of basic and secondary education. however, we do not forget that there is a history and there are students with a retention past and, of course, we also have to work for these students. in this sense, we diversify the offers and create the vocational courses, which are directed precisely to students over 13 years of age, with two or more retentions. They are already a remedy measure, but it is intended for a very specific target audience that can no longer be detected at first because you already have a problem, it is already within it, and the school also has to have conditions for solving this problem. Therefore, the resolution of this problem goes beyond the initial measures of prevention, identification of needs, immediate action and the strengthening of the number of psychologists in schools, by the extended concept of inclusive school, of course, with knowledge of reality, by special education in schools, through the conduct of studies, the establishment of working groups and, of course, through an external evaluation work that was done in relation to the centers of resources for inclusion. This set of measures effectively implements the sequence and coordination that has been the driving line of our action.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u158	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u159	Therefore, we will continue to bet on prevention, acting in the early years, but at the same time looking for solutions for those students who need them. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u160	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u161	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u162	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u163	Mr President, following the statement by the Secretary of State, I would like to ask the Bureau for the distribution of five graphs corresponding to statistics from the Directorate-General for Education and Science Statistics: one reveals and confirms the breakdown of the number of students by 34 000 in the last three years ; another confirms less than 15 000 students enrolled for the first time ; another confirms the sharp reduction in enrolments by older than 23 years ; another confirms the fact that the number of vacancies has fallen in 2000 in the last three years ; and another is related to the breakdown of the number of teachers in public higher education by less than 1700.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u164	You are identified, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u165	in fact, they are three graphs, all revealing a fall. It is a real water park sliding down the table and are statistical data of the Ministry of Education itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u166	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also asked for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u167	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u168	Allow me only to explain that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' speech had to have the extension he had because he was identifying each of the documents. That is why I let it come to an end. You have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u169	Mr President, I would therefore like to make an appeal to the Bureau that, with its good offices, we can investigate with the Government when, in fact, it is going to transfer money to universities, because this question has been asked repeatedly and has never been answered by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u170	Mr President, I do not know whether this would be the time to insist on this. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the end of the debate. First of all, for an intervention, Mr Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have had the opportunity to discuss several subjects that are extremely important for education and to confront some points of view. The essential point of view here was that of two views on incentives: a vision in which incentives should simply be broken down, and another view in which incentives should be used in order to improve the education system. Our view is that incentives should be used to improve the education system. Let us respond to the truth on two or three fundamental points which Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has not correctly exposed. The first question is: hourly credits exist for all schools and the autonomy of the use of hourly credits for schools exists for all schools. There is an increased autonomy for schools that have a contract of autonomy, which is a curriculum management autonomy of up to 25% of the curriculum. But all other forms of autonomy exist for all schools. What happens is that there are additional credits that are given to schools according to a set of criteria and in which the results of schools are important. But, honourable Member, the bottom line is this: a school that has bad results can have more hourly credits than a school that has good results if this school shows a upward trend. Only this means that the school is working in the right direction and, therefore, additional credits are given to it according to the project that the school has. This is our view of school. The second key question is that professional pathways should not be seen as a second-opportunity measure for people. Professional pathways are the first opportunity for students who, at a certain point in their lives, need and are called for more practical teaching. But what is fundamental in our system is that there is the possibility at any time that students will invest and exchange on the way and go to the scientific-humanistic pathway.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u172	It was good they didn't have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u173	The vocational system that was introduced and which, while still at the launch stage, reaches about 25,000 students, was fundamental to reducing school dropout, was fundamental to recovering students, was fundamental to speed up their educational progress and is fundamental to giving them a path of success. The vocational system that exists is characterized by a very large link between the school and the company, in which the company contributes to the education of young people, encouraging them more than internships, participating in the curriculum design, participating in the guarantee that these vocational pathways will have a professional exit. What existed in basic education until recently were the CEFs (education and training courses), which were destructed offers, given precisely to students with difficulties. Now, what we did was that, instead of having unstructured, hidden offers, there was clearly a structured way to provide a way for young people. So we did not invent the CEFs, they already existed. The destructed ways for young people were already in existence, but they were, in other words, destructed ways. What the vocational courses did was structure these pathways and give them chances of success, possibilities that increase with the fact that there are in higher political education professional technical courses. I have a parentheses to mention the problem of higher education funding, which has been so questioned here. Mrs. Deputy, this is very clear. The honourable Member, on Monday, asks 'when is it Sunday? », on Tuesday, ask « when is it Sunday? », on Wednesday question « when is it Sunday? The government never arrives on Sunday! »... Mrs. Deputy, this is very clear. Last year we followed a certain system and fulfilled what we said. This year, we have exactly the same system and we're going to do what we said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u174	They didn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u175	We've done it. What has happened — the honourable Member and everyone knows - is that the calculation of public service remuneration has undergone a series of changes over months and years, and this implies that the adjustment of these remunerations to the new wage tables must be made. Well, that's the adjustment that's not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u176	No one's talking about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u177	This happened last year and the honourable Member has been asking 'when is it Sunday? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” on Monday he asked « when is it Sunday? », on Tuesday asked « when is it Sunday? », on Wednesday asked « when is it Sunday? »... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] But indeed, on Sunday, that is to say, there was a time when the transfer was made to the higher education institutions that the government had promised. Only if the government says "we need some time to review the estimates of higher education institutions so that we will then make the replacement. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u178	Madam Member, I would ask you to let the Minister conclude without making a permanent intercession.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u179	We're on March, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u180	Exactly, Mr. Member, we are in March, we are at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u181	The beginning of the year has already been!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u182	The economic and financial difficulties that may possibly exist for the institutions are difficulties that, if the payment is not made, will be felt in October, November and December. Well, we're a long time away from this. We still do not have the estimates of all higher education institutions on the adjustment that needs to be made, but this adjustment will be made, Mr President. It is not worth asking on Monday for Sunday, on Tuesday, asking for Sunday, and on Wednesday, asking for Sunday. Sunday will come. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u183	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u184	In conclusion, I would like to refer to another fundamental measure of this Government, which is the higher professional technical courses. Mr. Secretary of State has already spoken about this. This route, once again, has the characteristics of what exists in the professional pathways, particularly in vocational, which is a link to companies, a connection to the Polytechnics and a link that allows two things: immediately offering a professional exit and offering the continuity of studies for those who wish to do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u185	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça now has the floor to speak for the closing intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u186	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister : at the conclusion of this debate there are at least four topics to which I have to refer before entering my own intervention. It is obvious that school dropout slowed down, Minister. And he slowed down because the socialist government made schooling compulsory up to 12. year. This is the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u187	About early school dropout, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't hide the numbers. The truth is, in the last three years, it has slowed the systematic breakdown in school dropout. With regard to English and its integration into the curriculum since the first cycle as a continuous curriculum course, it does not cause us any strangeness, nor are we against, but the truth is that the exchange rate, Minister, cannot be that there are fewer than 600 schools teaching English in the first and second years of education, i.e. less than 40,000 students having English classes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that there can be no fewer than 200 schools teaching English to third- and fourth-year students, i.e. less than 25 000 students, in a total of 65 000 students outside the English teaching system. Thirdly, Mr Minister, the teachers have been devalued for themselves. They have been devalued by this team of the Ministry of Education. The Minister is speaking today in continuing teacher training, but it was the Minister who destroyed the continuing teacher training. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I am talking about rigour. I do not speak of the rigor of Minister Nuno Crato, of the rigor of the regatta,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u188	Regent? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u189	... the rigor of examinations, the rigor of evaluation, the rigor of rigor with exclusion and social injustice. Mr Minister, I am talking about that rigour that everyone in this House, except for the majority seats, and that everyone out there also claims: they demand working conditions to make school success for our students, they demand conditions to teach a generation that is waiting to contribute to the future of the country. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what this government is doing to education is reducing itself to an arithmetical operation: that of subtraction. Since the government took possession, there are fewer teachers in schools. Austerity has deprived the educational system of more than 25,000 teachers, with devastating consequences in support of students. On the other hand, there are fewer students to succeed in school right from 1. the basic education cycle: 10, 5 % of students with 7 years of age currently fall;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u190	Are they seven-year-old plumbas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u191	... No. 3. the year of schooling, the retention rate doubled to 5, 8 % ; overall, the retention rate of basic education ( up to 9. the year) returned in 2012 / 2013 to the two digits, which had not occurred since 2006, and is in the 10, 4 %, 6. the school year, the retention rate in public school in 2011 was 7, 9 % and two years later was 16, 1 %. These are INE numbers and Ministry of Education numbers, which Mr. Minister didn't want to say here today. On the other hand, there are fewer adults at all levels of public education. We had a model for training the New Opportunities, particularly with the RVCCs (recognition, validation and certification of competences), but the conservative ideological attitude of this government and the Minister of Education led to the extinction of a model appreciated and discussed abroad outside Portugal. Currently, with less than 75% of adults being able to have training, has won the prejudice of this Ministry of Education! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Wherever we're going to see each other, well, you guys can do it. Members shout, but the fact is that in Portugal there are fewer public schools today and there are less education than there were three years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And did Portugal invest in education because it reached such a satisfactory level that it required resources to be elsewhere? Don't! The Portuguese population has the lowest education level in the whole European Union. Don't! The percentage of young people who do not complete secondary education is much higher than in the European Union as a whole. Portugal has invested in education because in this government the general orientation for austerity has married a minister who has adopted a retrograde ideology,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u192	... that has his head the school of two generations ago: good for a few, bad for many, nonexistent for many others. The most serious result of this Ministry’s performance is the failure of school. Educational policies exist to promote school success and equal opportunities, but the results of school failure have a bearing on the factors to be listed. First, an ideological program: early school selection, disqualification of public education. More than the lack of financial resources was the ideological option, going beyond the troika, the absence of reformist impulse, the systematic attack on thinking and educational training, especially of adults.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u193	O Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u194	Secondly, the culture of the tests did not improve the results, as is known. What we need is more support to the students, but you have ended all the programmes that gave more support to the students with more difficulties. Thirdly, they are also explained by the choices of austerity, the effects of which have been felt very hard among students of socially and economically more disadvantaged families, who have come to schools in worse conditions for successful learning, either by their parents' unemployment, either by reducing and disappearing social support or by the obvious degradation of family aggregates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u195	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u196	I'm done now, Madam President. As David Justino also said, and I was not, «the most important thing to do is not about compulsory education, but about the culture of retention that exists». And, as Ana Maria Bettencourt has said, as President of the National Council for Education, between 2009 and 2013, supported by numerous scientific studies and consensus obtained in a body of great pluralism, it is necessary to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u197	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u198	I shall quickly finish, Madam President, by saying that the fruit of this Government in this chapter is a colossal backwardness, the greatest backwardness since 25 April.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u199	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u200	In conclusion, Madam President, I will say the following: this government believes that those who are poor do not need much education, that those who have learning difficulties need to be retained and not supported, that those who find difficulties early in vocational education of second choice and poor quality are sufficient, that those who go to vocational education do not need a solid general culture,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... that those who did not study when they were young—and, according to the OECD suspicion, who lead and abandon come, in most cases of poor families—do not deserve the state to strive for adult education.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u201	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u202	The coherence of this government's vision is a threat. If she had won, we would have won a Portugal of low wages and deep inequalities. what we need is even a commitment to a strategic agreement for qualifications and a government that once again has a passion for education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u203	Passion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u204	Back to the past! Passion for education!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the problem of the use of time is not just a problem of the use of time, it is a problem of equality of arms between the parties. Therefore, I ask everyone to respect when I ask them to fulfill approximately the regimental times. I thank Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes and the Minister for closing the debate, as well as the members of the Government and the Members of the Council. Member who spoke during the debate. Having concluded the urgent debate required by the PS, I would like to congratulate the honourable Members. Members of the Government coming out of the Chamber and those presenting themselves for the next debate. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 825 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — to establish the principle of non- privatization of the water sector, amends Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December ( Approves the Water Law ), with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012, and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens ), 819 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring access by private companies to the economic activities of public water supply, waste water sanitation and urban solid waste management ( CFP ) and 821 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures public management of water supply, sanitation and solid waste ( BE ). To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps you understand this statement that I can legitimately make that the private sector intends to stop the water sector. We are talking about a sector so vital to life and so linked to development that those who hold it generate enormous power of various dimensions: social, environmental, economic, territorial management, and out there. It happens that this private sector has found a political power materialized in governments, whether from PSD, CDS or PS, which, fundamentally, since the 90s of the 20th century has gradually made a legislative construction that has opened the door completely to the possibility of the private sector entering the water sector, which, in our perspective, is deeply worrying. But we stopped in this legislature. This government began by stuttering — perhaps the best term — on water privatization. at the time, also with the environment folder, Mrs.Minister Assumption Cristos said it was against the privatization of the Waters of Portugal, as she said it was a hypothesis that would eventually be placed. Then, in the eagerness of that logic of midwifery and all steam, Minister Vítor Gaspar, then holder of the finance folder, said, one of those famous assessments of the troika and there in the middle of a great speech, that the government's intention was even to privatize the Waters of Portugal. Well, there has been a huge concern in the country about this camouflaged announcement. Meanwhile, Minister Moreira da Silva, current owner of the environment folder, comes to say that there is no privatization of the Waters of Portugal. However, if you and the ladies and gentlemen. Members will heed Mr Minister's speech well, they will always notice that he is careful to say that with this government there will be no privatization, i.e. in this legislature, with this government! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this leaves no room for security for the future. In addition, this government has restructured the water sector that is building systems, which increases the price of water for the generality of consumers, which removes an interventional dimension to the authorities, finally, is a path in everything compatible with the logic of the mass entry of the private sector into the water sector. At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment at which this issue was discussed, the Greens made the following challenge to Mr Minister: if he says that there is no privatization of the water sector, we will lay down this in national legislation before the end of the legislature. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]] Mr President, that is exactly the proposal that the Greens bring to Parliament today: to lay down, in national legislation, the principle of non- privatization of water.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u207	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the CFP brings to the discussion a bill that prohibits access to private entities providing public water, sanitation and waste water and municipal solid waste. We understand that these public services are essential and that only public management guarantees its quality and accessibility at low costs, as well as workers' rights. Since 1993, successive PS governments, PSD and CDS-PP have been adopting a mesh of laws to enable more private entities to participate in the management of public water services and urban solid waste. The current government, moreover, as expected, given its political and ideological options, has gone even further: in relation to waste, the government has opted, without any plausible justification, for its privatization; already as regards the water sector, the option now goes by creating megastructures to achieve the same result, i.e., it is creating the conditions to make water a business of the private, giving them the management of the systems without risk and quite profitable. Privatization or the provision of public water services, sanitation and urban solid waste leads to the degradation of the quality of services, the reduction of investment, the worsening of asymmetries in access, attacks workers' rights and increases user prices to meet the profits of concessionary companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u210	It was precisely because of the identification of these problems and the improvement of the access and quality of water services that there are increasingly cities, regions and countries around the world to remunipalize water services, re-establishing the public control of their management. Since 2000, 180 cases of remunicipalization have been known, such as the city of Berlin and Paris. There are also European countries, such as Denmark, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria where water services are exclusively public. Contrary to what the Government says, today's trend is not to privatize, but to regain public control over the management of these important public services. For capital, everything that is essential to life is liable to be mercantillized and turned into a highly lucrative business. For capital, there is no ethics or concern about the well-being of people or the guarantee of human rights. For capital, its main concern and only concern is the maximization of profit, even if it is at the expense of essential goods to life, such as water. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As water is an essential asset to life, recognized by the United Nations as a human right, for the CFP the services of water supply and sanitation, as well as public services of urban solid waste, should be managed only by public entities in the public service perspective and not in the view of obtaining profit, rejecting the commercialist and economicist view of the Government, of which will result only worse public services and higher costs for the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u211	To present the draft law of BE, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Water and solid waste management — sanitation, commonly used term — are designated by the UN as fundamental human rights. Therefore, the first question we must ask is whether fundamental rights, internationally recognized as such, should be market object or not and whether we should pay for access to fundamental rights. Our answer is that money can never be a barrier to gaining access to fundamental goods. on the side of the majority, on the side of this government, is clearly an agenda in contradiction with the United Nations, even with what Portugal voted in the United Nations, and with this clear assumption that there are fundamental rights that cannot be placed on society, people, each and every one of us on the basis of a monetary exchange and, if there is no such possibility, we are prevented from having access to them. Now the majority and this government have done exactly the opposite. in terms of water, they have exponentially increased their cost and, in terms of urban solid waste management, have opted for privatization. We know that the intention is to bring to the market what should never be on the market, because it is not just about the market having no feelings, it is about the market not to raise fundamental rights. It is not done without immediate consequences for people, either in terms of the value of tariffs or in terms of the existence of an outraged population with these choices. Throughout the country we see, in what is essential — in water, in solid waste management — that the population more easily rises to say 'no' to this policy and to this government. on the side of the Left Block, we put the fundamental choices on the table. We say that water cannot be managed by private people, it must be guaranteed to all and to all, as a fundamental right it is, and sanitation cannot be delivered to private speculation. Otherwise, what we will have is clearly an abusive increase in tariffs, but mainly more and more people are getting out of the networks of these fundamental services. One specific example is that of EPAL, which in recent years has cut water to more than 12,000 houses — 12,000 homes that had cut it into access to a fundamental good like water. But on this matter, in fact, there can be nothing more than a human response because on the other hand we will always have the insensitivity of this majority and of this government, who only see business where they should see fundamental rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u213	Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, three more initiatives are being discussed, by the left parties, in the form of bills, on the restructuring of the water sector and of urban solid waste management activities. This is a theme that has been widely discussed, having already explored the reasons and motivations that are on the basis of measures and decisions being taken by this government in order to ensure the survival of these activities, as opposed to the proposals on the left that would lead to the accelerated collapse of this sector in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u215	We dryed all the sources!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u216	These initiatives make a historical review of the sector and end up as they have always done: with a proposal to seal private access to the waste sector and in anticipation of a delivery to the private sector. Nothing new! these projects highlight, yes, a great imprecision and dose of fundamentalism in the arguments used. They confuse concepts, predict the most catastrophic scenarios on the evolution of sectors, anticipate a deterioration of services, as well as the rise of their tariffs, ignore the economic and financial reality and sustainability of the sector. Mrs. Members, with regard to the water and sanitation sector, it also continues to be the target of the instrumentalisation of opposition parties, seeking to associate the reality of the waste sector with decisions on the water sector. The government has already said it and we say it again: there is no intention of privatizing the water sector. The Government's strategy for the water sector — already publicly presented and at meetings promoted by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities — is based on its business restructuring, providing greater social and territorial cohesion, environmental quality and economic and financial sustainability, through the aggregation of five multi-municipal systems, greater integration between high and low systems, gradual recovery of costs in tariffs, but also tariff harmonisation, providing solutions for the problem of chronic tariff deficits to be solved. It also provides for the promotion of more integrated management strategies for water and sanitation services at high and low levels, with significant benefits for consumers, providing reductions in the value of fees to be charged to municipalities by EUR 4100 million, operating costs by EUR 2700 million, of staff costs by EUR 724 million. It is a strategy focused on the efficient management of assets in order to ensure the quality of service delivery and the intergenerational sustainability of the life cycle of this sector. The Government's water sector strategy aims to restore greater transparency and rigour in tariff formation and at the same time greater control of the social impact of tariff corrections, in particular among the most unprotected populations, providing users with more and better information about the service being provided. It is precisely because water is a scarce and fundamental to human life that the political and party debate must be responsible and guided by this premise, in order to ensure the intergenerational sustainability of the sector, as we believe that the reform that is under way will be able to do. I'm done, ladies. Members, saying the following: the pillars for restructuring these sectors are precisely based on the increased efficiency of water supply systems and services, sewage sanitation and waste management, with a view to reducing associated costs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u217	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u218	... as guarantees of the universality of its access and improvement of the quality of the services provided to the population, allowing, moreover, to correct the disparities in tariffs found between systems and regions of the country, as well as to address current and future social problems of accessibility to services. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u219	Mr Pedro Farmhouse has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first time that the Assembly of the Republic is debating the access of the private economic initiative to the sectors of water, sanitation and waste and will certainly not be the last. Not that I would like to refer at this time to the news that the Competition Authority has decided to initiate an in-depth investigation into the privatisation of the General Development Company, because it considers that the operation may put obstacles to competition in urban waste management services, until the liquidation of this company and the consequences resulting therefrom for the municipalities and for the country will be widely discussed in Parliament tomorrow morning. I say this because Parliament will not fail to pay attention to the destructive action of the Government and its fever of privatization against everything and against all, particularly with regard to the ongoing process of dismantling the Water Group of Portugal. Because this process has only one objective: the privatization of the Waters of Portugal. I welcome the parliamentary groups proposing for the presentation of legislative initiatives and for having raised the debate today. As I have had the opportunity to mention in the past, when we dealt with related legislative initiatives, these bills have the merit of bringing to the parliamentary debate something that concerns citizens and interferes with their lives. The restructuring of the water, sanitation and waste sectors is characterized by total opacity, a flagrant lack of transparency and a surprising lack of in-depth studies to justify it. I therefore recall what I said in this House regarding the amendment of the Sector Delimitation Act, i.e. that in the last 20 years Portugal has witnessed a silent reform which has allowed a large percentage of the population to see their conditions of service being substantially improved; that the Portuguese "miracle" has allowed us to spend 50 % in less than two decades at very close to 100 % at levels of water quality; that 20 years have been sufficient for significant benefits to the environment, for the quality of life of Portuguese and to transform Portugal into a model, in the treatment of its waste, using modern technologies available on the market. And all this, being these public sectors, public ownership and public management. To this the Government answers: "It is urgent to privatize. It's modern privatization. Private yourself! And so he did. First, with the General Development Company and, soon, with the Waters of Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS is intransigently defending water as a public good, essential to life and a right enshrined by the United Nations. We understand, however, that denying private business access to public water supply, sanitation and urban solid waste management activities is excessive, even because private management practices do not necessarily affect the public interest and because none of this management results from the free decision of the municipalities in their area of autonomy and therefore it is necessary to respect the principle of local power autonomy, although it should also be taken into account the report made by the Court of Auditors in relation to lower concessions in the water sector. In our view, what matters is to define clearly where the private initiative can go and to defend, clearly and fully, the public interest, because that is the interest of all, that must be our duty and we must first defend consumers and our citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u221	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Mário Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives of the Parliamentary Groups of the Left Block, the Greens and the CFP, which today intend to amend the existing legislation and exclude any participation of private entities in the water sector from a false issue of the fear of privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u223	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u224	As the Minister for the Environment and the Government have repeatedly assumed, the government does not...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u225	And what did Victor Gaspar say? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u226	Victor Gaspar is no longer a minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u227	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia is wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u228	The government doesn't equal, it doesn't weigh, it doesn't even admit the possibility... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mr Deputy, the Government does not even accept the possibility of privatizing the water sector. Moreover, this position has been taken here all of us, repeatedly. But, as you don't hear, I'm going to say, slowly, last time, it was higher, today it's going to be slower: there's no privatization of the waters. End point! Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no intention of privatization, but this also does not solve the problems of the sector. What solves sector problems is we do restructuring and have systems with sustainability. This is the real reform needed to ensure that water is always public and guaranteed continuity, universality and quality. A restructuring that ends regional disparities, large disparities, promotes territorial equity and social cohesion. A restructuring that enables scale gains, as has already been said, and costs reduction and efficiency. A restructuring that ends the tariff deficits and the debts of the municipalities. A restructuring that ensures the ability to continue the investment — 3700 million by 2020 — to bring water to everyone better and save, in particular, the water losses that go through the sewerage below. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS is different, but it speaks to several voices. The PS is different from that PS of the past that privatized a strategic sector, Aquapor. The only time there was privatization was with Aquapor and it was the Socialist Party that did this privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u229	And you don't privatize anything! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u230	Sir, now I'm talking to the PS! Then I would like to say that the President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, Manuel Machado, defended that the need for the restructuring of the water sector—and, recently, I heard the Socialist Party say otherwise— stressing that sustainability should be linked and geared to maintenance...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u231	You heard me wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u232	Mr President, at the end of the day, I will give you this piece of paper, where you can confirm it. As regards the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos, the CFP proposes that the current concessions should not be renewed — this is your proposal. I remember that municipal concessions have deadlines to finish. But it is also at the hands of the municipalities to make the ransom clauses.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u233	When you can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u234	So, I ask, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u235	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u236	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs Setúbal, in the case of Mr Setúbal, why they do not act as Article 83. The contract one? Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u237	Because your councils don't leave!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u238	You can start there and set an example! On the other hand, municipalities also have their autonomy and renewals...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u239	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u240	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Finally, the possibility of rescue is in the authorities. In fact, Mr. Environment Manager of the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal is from the Greens Ecological Party. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Finally, I will say that in order to ensure access to water for all, including all Portuguese, even those with less resources, it is necessary to restructure. Water is transparent, just as our position is: there is no privatization, there will be no privatization! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, when there is no argument to justify the objectives that this government, the PSD and the CDS continue, some examples of municipal cameras come up the table. And once again, we explain: regarding the examples of Setúbal or Évora, you know perfectly well that the contracts were not made under the management of the CDU, you know perfectly that the contracts were the responsibility of the Socialist Party and you know perfectly that these contracts were made in such a way — in a way Leonine and ruinous for public management — that any initiative would lead to the failure of the municipalities. So don't come up with these questions because those are not the issues that are being asked here. What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, you say it is a false issue, that there is no goal of privatization with this restructuring. Well, Mr. Member, in the script of the reform of the State, presented by this Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u243	For Dr. Portas!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u244	... it is said that « in the business restructuring of the water sector, weighing its concession(...) ». And it is not worth discussing the concepts, because they can call it « grant », « externalisation », « PPP », « privatization », what they understand is that everything is being done to create the conditions for effectively surrender — or in this government or, in your perspective, preparing the way for the future — the management of these public services to private entities. This is the big target. This is how they did with the EGF, whose process is under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u246	Now, being water is an essential asset to life, obviously there is a great interest, which is not today, it is old by private entities to push this sector, because they know that no one lives without water, so it is a guaranteed profit. As no one lives without water, they have a guaranteed profit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I wanted to say the following: about remunicipalizations, about which I spoke recently and about what I said that what is being done in several countries is to regain public control of public services which were under private management, the truth is that these privatizations, which said they had no problem, created numerous problems in these countries, and it was good to be able to look at it too.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u247	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u248	By now, Mrs. Deputy, I could also finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u249	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, we should look at the mediocre performance of private companies, sub-investment, the brutal increase in tariffs, the difficulty in monitoring private operators, the lack of financial transparency. What more do you need to know about what happened in other countries? What you want to do in Portugal is that. But they will not count on the PCP to privatize services essential to the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u250	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor. It has 29 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u251	Maybe there's some more tolerance, isn't there, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u252	Maybe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Perhaps unintentionally, the PSD Member said what might be important to realize. I reminded you of what Minister Vítor Gaspar had said about the privatization of the waters of Portugal and you turned to me and said: « This is no longer a minister! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, what about this one? When you are no longer a minister... It is that the conversation changes according to the faces and you simply say: « This is no longer a minister». That is to say, the conversation "has shut down". Mr President, I am just not sure that the privatization of water is done simply because there is no time to do it until the end of the legislature. The honourable Member says no, but perhaps at that time they say: 'He is no longer a Member'. You see, Mr. Deputies? It just doesn't work that way. If you are so convinced that there will not be, or will be, privatization of water, we will set you up in the legislation. Of the principles that are in the water framework law, which are a series of them, we add one more: the principle of non- privatization of water. What's the matter? If that's what you say is going to happen to you! ...Here, the PS says it too. Here, the Greens always said it. The PCP says so, the Left Block too. So it looks like we're all with the same speech. Looks like it! ... That is the question—it seems! There's someone who's not with a genuine speech. And most PSD/CDS is not with a genuine speech, because, if it were, it would have no problem strictly to determine, in the water framework law, the principle of non- privatization of water. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that the Greens are coming out of this debate with a deep concern about your intentions. Probably not in this legislature, but in a legislature anyone will want to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u254	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u255	I will finish, Mr. President. But, fortunately, maybe the Portuguese drag you through, especially in these elections. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u256	Mrs. Members, after the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 825 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of The Greens, 819 / XII ( 4. ( a ), of the PCP, and 821 / XII ( 4. ( a ), from BE, we turn to the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 822 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Eliminates commissions for early repayment and termination of the contract, also establishing the obligation and free issue of the distraction and declaration of settlement of the loan ( amendment to Decree-Law No 51 / 2007 of 7 March 2007 and Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 ( BE ), 823 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the base account ( BE), 818 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the obligation of credit institutions to provide a deposit account to the standardised order designated as « basic account », and prohibits the collection of commissions, expenditure or other charges by the services provided under that account ( PCP ) and 826 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Simplification and standardization of the commissioning of deposit accounts in order ( amends Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, and Decree-Law No 454 / 91 of 28 December ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, which stems from an agenda made by the Left Block, is not a new debate in the Assembly of the Republic. The issue of banking committees, the abuse they mean about people, is demonstrated by the simple numbers that we can bring to this debate. in 2013, only the five main Portuguese banks charged EUR 2600 million on commissions. This is the value of EUR 2600 million. This means 40 % of the banking product. Now, with these values we might think: this was bad and could have improved over the years. But the reality is that, in 2014, although we have already warned about this abuse, everything remained as it was. as far as accounting committees are concerned, we see that the values are in the order of EUR 10 million per day. And it is not exaggerated to think that, a few years ago, it was the banks that paid the citizens to take account of the remuneration of an interest rate. In fact, what the Left Block proposes is exactly that the accounts be free of charge, i.e. that there are no commissions for any services provided — and we do not make this an abusive requirement. Let us see what exists in France. In France, there is a guarantee that the bank consumer has access, free of charge, to minimum services, which include: opening up; maintaining and closing the account; changing address; domicile of bank statements; sending out extracts with transactions made; cash transactions; receipts of cheques; bank transfers; deposits and withdrawals of money in the counter; interbank direct debit payments and bank transfers; bank card; and means of consultation away from the account balance. This is beyond two rough checks per month. The majority will say that it is a lot. We say it's essential. And we do not want anything different for Portugal: what is done here in France ; that citizens who have accounts in Portugal are not denied the rights that are now allowed in a country next to France. So let it end, once and for all, with this abuse! We know that there are other diplomas in debate. on the side of the Left Block, moreover, we go further in some of the abuses not only on the accounts to order but also on various contracts, namely credit contracts. We demand, for example, that no committees be covered by the end of the credit agreement which already has an intended end, that no committees be covered by the closure of the proceedings. And we say it is indefensible to charge commissions for issuing a document that says that the credit contract has been completely liquidated. These are essential things, for example, to end the mortgage of a loan to housing. And we see that abusive committees are being demanded right now. For example, the BIC, for the issue of the document that says that the loan contract to housing ended up in the mortgage, charges €100. The BPI, to say that it has regularly completed a contract, charges 150 €. These are the values of abuse. As I said, we know there are other projects. Most brought a project to debate—at last, we saw the majority here with a project on this matter! What we don't see is nothing new. It tries to bring to law what the Banco de Portugal has as draft resolution, while a suggestion to the banks; now, it does not end with the essential, because it keeps the abuse in the accounts at the order of all committees, and that is what we find unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u258	To present the PCP bill, Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the past few years, banks have been deepening the predatory practice of charging their clients with excessive fees. According to the data provided by the Portuguese Banking Association, in December 2013 banking commissions already represented around 50 % of the banking product in some banks. In other words, the business of banks is increasingly to scour their customers through commission collection. Particularly serious is the situation of the deposit accounts in order, which are an essential banking product that the overwhelming majority of people cannot dispense. in the not very distant past, these accounts were remunerated with interest, since the money deposited in them represented a willingness for banks to develop their business, i.e. to lend loans to individuals and businesses. But now, on an unacceptable reversal, customers have to pay to lend their savings to the bank. According to Banco de Portugal, between 2008 and 2013, for an average balance of €250, the value of the commissions reached 50 € annually with a tendency to increase. This unacceptable situation requires decisive legislative action, with a view to banning the collection of commissions, expenditure and other charges with the maintenance of accounts, preventing banks from bubbling their customers in billions of euros. This was exactly the objective of the bill that the PCP presented a year ago. Despite falling by the PSD and the CDS, the PCP's legislative initiative has borne fruit because it led the Banco de Portugal to issue a circular letter, suggesting to banks the marketing of a new deposit account to the designated « base account ». However, the Banco de Portugal, defending the interests of banks rather than defending the rights of bank customers, has allowed the collection of commission maintenance of the base account which credit institutions can set freely. The PCP, understanding that the base account, as well as the basic services associated with it, should be made available free of charge, presents today a bill that ensures this objective. It is a legislative initiative that upholds the rights of bank customers, preventing banks from continuing their predatory practice of charging abusive commissions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u260	To present the PSD and CDS-PP bill, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating consumer rights. However, it is of crucial importance for us to deal with the rights of users of banking services. The initiatives presented are all in line with the concerns of the majority. in this measure, I want to say, from now on, what we are not available for. We are against price control in an administrative way. For us, this is an insurmountable line. We are in favour of the competitive market, of better supervision, of better supervision, of better regulation of financial institutions, finally of competition that ensures clear and true information about the provision of services and prices practiced, without ever losing sight of the need to punish abusive practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u262	Have you heard of BES? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u263	We will not go to the tow of attempts at political use when the negative impacts on the lives of consumers are not cautious. We cannot follow fundamentalist paths, little or no basis, easyist and adventurist solutions, in a number logic, to the detriment of credible solutions. That is why, Mr President, we are here to contribute to this debate with a package of reasoned legislative measures and with positive consequences on the lives of Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u264	They're the retards of history!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u265	I am now going to list some of the fundamental aspects of our bill. with regard to minimum banking services, we understand that the whole banking system should be part of this service package. The banks will be obliged to offer these products to all Portuguese. No one should stay out.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u266	He invented the wheel!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u267	The gentlemen. Members are well aware that, so far, banks only access these products in the form of a protocol. We want the whole bank to access. We had the worry of leaving out and somehow excluding the matter, because one of the main strangulations of the system was that these account holders could only have an account in the banking system. But, as there are people with great difficulties, lacking the ability to manage their own economies, we understand that for seniors and dependents it is possible to have a second holder in the account that has other accounts in the banking system. with regard to the committees, I would like to say that we have established a general principle and that the maintenance committees, of which you speak, are part of the past and will not happen again. Only through a service provided is that a bank can charge a commission and it has to be perceptible. with regard to returned checks, we consider it unjustified to collect a commission on someone who deposits a check, who cannot reopen his money and who is still double penalized because he has deposited a check. We believe that this is totally unjustified, taking into account the principle, which we defend, equity and social justice. Finally, the issue of invoice receipt is, for us, fundamental to transparency and competition. For now, that's what I meant. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u268	Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u269	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS present today a bill that aims to promote an open discussion. It is a bill that does not de-responsibly regulate, but that seeks to improve some practices in our banking sector and that, from our point of view, are abusive. This bill is not made against anyone, it is done for consumers and with a clear objective that has already been identified: in relation to services associated with the accounts to order, there is a more fair and transparent mechanism in relation to what has existed so far. I would like to tell Mr Pedro Filipe Soares that he has read our bill wrong. It is true that it endorses to a large extent the recommendations made in the Banco de Portugal's circular letter, but goes much further, in particular by withdrawing the conditions that existed in respect of the second account holder. The Banco de Portugal recommends in the circular letter that, in view of the limitations in respect of minimum banking services, the institutions provide a basic account. Now, what we do is we do not make the system of minimum banking services compulsory for all credit institutions with bank license to operate in Portugal, but we also remove a condition that helps to protect those who need it and that will perhaps more easily have the advantage of joining this type of service. On the other hand, in the Banco de Portugal's circular letter, nothing is available regarding the modification of mechanisms when payment of a cheque which has no coverage is involved. in our project, it is entirely clear that the responsibility for the expenses that may have been incurred is always on account of the take-off rather than the pull-off. There is also a mechanism, the billing system, which increases transparency and is very important to us. This system may, on the one hand, be considered for the purposes of family expenses and charges at the IRS level and, on the other hand, I believe that they cannot fail to agree — promotes transparency and greater notion, greater comparability, if you want, less opacity, in relation to the commissions and charges that the bank owes to its customers. from our point of view, it is a significant, relevant change that should not be underestimated by the opposition just because of a matter of populism. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u271	Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are enjoying four diplomas, two from the Left Block, one from the PCP and one from the majority. If the Left Block and the PCP are reaffirmed old positions, the originality of this debate is the fact that most of the proposals have already been put forward here. Let us see: it has led to the obligation of banks to have minimum services, and today it has been restored, but it does so in insufficient minimum circumstances. What we are talking about today is to supplement the obligation of banks to have minimum services with the exemption of committee. The question is that, in this case, it is the consumer who is providing a service to a bank, insofar as an average balance is required in these accounts, we are offering the financial system funds to apply, with a substantial revenue. Now, this loan revenue would have to be shared between the bank and consumers. It is therefore a service provided by consumers. As far as banking committees are concerned, it now tells us that most of them are in a position to approve that committees should exist only if, on the other hand, there is a service. However, the majority rejected our proposal one year ago saying that the collection of commissions could only happen having « as a counterpart an effective service provided by the institutions ». Exactly what the majority now say. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they could have gone further — in fact, even Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who is no longer present, suggested, in the last debate, that they should have gone further, in particular that it should be compulsory that the same name should exist whenever it comes to equal committees. How can the consumer compare commissions that are equal, but to which the banks attribute different names. What would be right was to adopt a set of principles and, at the same time, refer to the Banco de Portugal for its supervision and control. Nothing relates to the intervention of Banco de Portugal. It does not mean, for example, that committees should be subject to the principle of good faith and proportionality. Why does a bank assign to a service a value and another assign a value that is five times higher? All of this should be the focus of the Banco de Portugal. However, it is ironic that the only thing suggested at committee level is that it must be backed up by a service. This means that the majority today consider that there are commissions that have no counterpart in a service and that are simply an abusive revenue from the banks. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, I suggested the detailed bill here. Today, a detailed invoice is suggested, but, attention is paid to the honourable Member's exemption from IRS. So, so that consumers can deduce in the IRS—that is what Mrs Vera Rodrigues said — keeping a document to be dropped in consumer expenditure, if you don't mind, Mrs Deputy, put that in the diploma, because we agree with this. But let me also state another aspect in the diploma: that these commission bills do not have another commission for their own issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u274	Good alert!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u275	That is to say, it is not guaranteed that there is a committee stipulated by the banks, that they will say that it is a counterparty of a service and, therefore, for an invoice of committees we will have a new committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u276	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u277	I think most of them did well in, in the specialty, correct these aspects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u278	Mr Paulo Sá has the floor for an intervention, since he has some time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law submitted by the PSD and CDS deserves severe criticism. First, the title of the bill is a liar. Affirming to simplify and standardise deposit accounts commissions in order, in fact, affects almost exclusively bank account accounts. The gentlemen. Mr Carlos Silva and Mr Vera Rodrigues have forgotten to mention how many such accounts exist in Portugal. I tell them: there are 13,900 accounts. A drop of water on an ocean of tens of millions of bills in order, but that is what you want to legislate about. Moreover, the PSD and CDS bill is limited to making mandatory a regime to which the most relevant banks have already joined, so this initiative has no practical effects. Finally, it olympically ignores the central problem, which is the collection of commissions for the maintenance of accounts both in the minimum banking services and in the base accounts. It is appropriate to say that this PSD bill is a hand full of nothing and nothing else! PSD and CDS are late in history. A year ago, the PSD and the CDS dropped the PCP bill banning the collection of commission to maintain accounts in order, promising to present a legislative initiative on this matter. Today, a year later, they present this initiative, but not one measure which prohibits or, at least, restricts the collection of commissions. Once again, PSD and CDS act in defense of the interests of banks, realizing that they do something to leave practically everything in it. Instead of presenting legislative initiatives to account for, it would be better for the PSD and CDS to have the courage to take their option by bankers and bankers to the detriment of bank customers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u280	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say that the opposition has made an attempt — in my view, frustrated — to underestimate the usefulness and interest of our bill. Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro, of course, we are available, moreover, more than available, we are very interested in moving forward and finding consensus, in the stage of specialization, on this matter. I would also like to tell you that what I said, and I repeat, is that the committees that have been discriminated against in the invoices that we are forcing the bank to send every January of the previous calendar year must be free of charge. As for the expenses and commissions included there, he did not say that they were exempt from IRS, he said that they could be considered for the purposes of general family charges. In other words, they can be considered in the cake and the slice of abatement that is possible in IRS. Mr. Paulo Sá, be consistent with the devaluation he has made of the minimum banking services. If they say they are useless, they have no consequence, they have no result, they have no use, they challenge it to present a proposal at the specialist stage to eliminate the minimum banking services. Be consistent with what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u282	Your proposals have no practical effect!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u283	We are absolutely convinced that the proposed amendments are useful and valued by people. In addition to the debate on parliamentary rhetoric, they have a practical effect that is certainly not negligible and help to increase competition between credit institutions, help to reduce opacity, help to increase transparency and help to increase justice as to how deposit accounts work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u284	Your bill is empty!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u285	Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to leave some notes on the debate. With regard to the Socialist Party, it seems to me that Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro reveals a total lack of knowledge of what the minimum banking services are when he comes to telling us about average balances in the accounts of the minimum banking services. There is no exclusion in this matter. What has to do with this matter is exactly the fact that the account is not moved over a given period of time, a long period of time. There's no problem with the average balances. These accounts were made for people with certain needs and therefore are not the average balances that are taken into account. On the other hand, Mr President, I would also like you to know that it is not the Socialist Party's idea of extract-billing, it is the DECO. It was the DECO who introduced this topic. The Socialist Party, a year ago, did not bring the invoice-receiving, brought the extract. We bring the bill-receiving.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u287	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u288	in this circumstance, I wanted to tell you that the DECO, and well, put this issue, most of them evaluated and understood that they should move forward in the name of competition and that we can serve the Portuguese better. The Portuguese will have the opportunity to monitor exactly what they pay, to verify clearly what they pay to banks. With regard to the 'left caviar', I wanted to tell you that there has been a great evolution since the last diplomas up to now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u289	It's the left caviar and the right green sparkling!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u290	And the right chungosa!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u291	The 'left caviar' says, in its explanatory statement, that it recognises that the committees are no longer as wild as they were in the past. Therefore, it is a significant development by the Left Block. [[Well seen!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u292	As for the « bifana left », I wanted to say the following: we do not align with « we do not pay ». What you say is that a person goes to the grocery store in the corner or to the café, the seller provides a service, that person runs away, leaves and does not pay. This isn't the market, it doesn't exist! This is an ancestral ideological cartilage on the side of the « bifana left», which is the nationalization of the bank, and we do not give to that petition. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u293	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech. You don't have much time, so I hope you use it in the best way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u294	Mr President, I ask for the same tolerance that you have given to the other parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that after this intervention, I was amazed when the right hand, in this case the right hand sold to the interests of the banks, is upset when we tell some truths. That's what this bill of majority is. To the question « does this change anything? , the answer is « no ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u295	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u296	Does it make sense for a family who has a residential credit, having made a contract with the bank for 20, 30, 40 years, to arrive at the end of that period, with everything paid in time and hours and still have to pay the BIC more than 100 € to tell you that it owes nothing? Most people say yes, they say you have to pay because the BIC so commands. It's the right hand-sell! Does it make sense for a family who has had a consumer credit and who has paid, for example, for 10 years, the purchase of a car, arrive at the BPI and say that you have paid everything, in time and hours, that you no longer have to pay anything more and want a document proving that you have reached the end of that period and that the BPI tells you that you have to pay 150 €? Does it make sense? Oh, my God! for the sights, to the right sold makes sense. For us and, I believe, for the vast majority of the population it makes no sense, it is abuse! He just doesn't see who's actually sold to the bank's interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when they say we're walking to a competition level, it means they're not even looking at reality. What are we watching with the merger of banks, with the purchase of banks, with the sale of the New Bank so far? Are we going to watch more competition or more concentration? So, this isn't the right hand sold, it's the left forgotten and completely out of reality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-03-19.u297	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us close the last item on our agenda. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: the first item is the general discussion of Bill No 290 / XII ( 4 ). (a ) — lays down the basis for the legal regime for the disclosure and use of existing geological resources in the national territory, including those located in the national maritime area. of the second point is the joint assessment with petition No 394 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — from the initiative of the STAL ( National Trade Union of Local and Regional Workers, Public Enterprises, Dealers and Affins ) — In defence of public waste services and parliamentary assessments ( 91 to 102 / XII ) ( 3 ). ( a ), of the PS initiative, and 105 to 116 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) of the CFP initiative. of the third point is Parliamentary assessment No 131 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January approving the legal regime for the access and exercise of trade, services and restoration activities ( PS ). of the fourth point is the discussion of motions for resolutions 105 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014 and 107 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 27 June 2014. Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the work is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
