ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security and the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality and the Secretary of State for Employment — to whom the Bureau congratulates — are open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we get on the agenda, which, as you all know, has as point 1 the urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the employment, employment and unemployment situation, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1452/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the X Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Camarate Tragedy ( President of the HR ) and 1453/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish the National Day of Gastronomy ( PSD and CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u3	As you all know, we have as item 1 of the agenda the urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the employment, employment and unemployment situation. The frame of this debate has a first intervention by the party of the initiative, in this case the PS by Mr Nuno Sá. Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members : Tomorrow the Workers' Day and the Socialist Party will be celebrated, on its own initiative, marked this parliamentary debate on the labour situation in Portugal. No delay, no misinformation campaign, will allow the government to escape from the evaluation of the results it now presents, at the end of its governance cycle. on May 1, 2015, it is necessary to ask: which numbers of unemployment and employment in Portugal? What are the income levels of workers? What is the situation of collective bargaining? What conditions and rights at work in Portugal? What steps have we taken in the affirmation of decent work as an engine of freedom and the fullness of human development? The numbers, but above all the concrete lives of people, answer these questions in a sad but clear way: the working world in Portugal has been constantly whipped by the political options of the PSD and the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this first of May, the situation is much worse, much worse, because of the governance of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas. The government may refuse the reality, but the facts, the lives of people, unfortunately, give us reason! [[P.S.'s applause.]] First, structural unemployment, that is, the one that, despite small monthly variations, keeps growing, reaches a historical level of about 12 % with PSD/CDS-PP governance. Unacceptable! Real unemployment is around 21 % because, to the number of unemployed, we have to add the 260 000 Portuguese 'discouraged ', the 161 000 Portuguese 'occupied' by the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, who are unemployed who are in training and active employment measures. It is said: they have increased in this legislation 518 %, they are more 134 917 Portuguese involved, much to mask unemployment statistics. in reality, we have more than 1 million unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u5	You've learned how to count!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u6	It should be pointed out that even the gongoric todas, fanfarroned by the PSD and the CDS-PP, where there is a slight oscillation of tenths of unemployment, have never been based on a net job creation, but always on the decrease in the active population caused either by mass emigration ( 100,000 Portuguese emigration per year, since this government is in office) or on the occupation of the unemployed in IEFP measures. They only managed to destroy jobs, they were unable to generate net job creation and remain with the absolute record makers of unemployment numbers. In fact, it tells us the economic rationality that there would never be a net job creation because this does not happen in contexts of recession or weak economic growth. What unquestionably also discredits and destroys government policies is the shock of reality with its forecasts in the 2011 - 2015 Budget Strategy Document. They set a set of targets for unemployment and employment rates and in four and a half years they did not succeed once. The situation has always been worse than what they promised the Portuguese. [[PSD protests.]] And they are missing today, with 340 000 jobs, which was the prospect that they had more than the job found in Portugal. Secondly, this Government has promoted a breakdown of wages with a systematic breakdown of labour wages. The bet was on impoverishment and often on indignity: 41 % of Portuguese in 2014 did not even win the average annual national minimum wage. Again, reality is cruel! Now, even the Portuguese workers may not be able to survive properly, even because even the most highly qualified are proposed wages of €500, as we know every day in social communication. Consequently, poverty has been fired in Portugal. The Portuguese have never been so poor in democracy and the political responsibility lies with the government sitting on the government bench. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Third: the government sprayed collective bargaining. for the first time in 2012, in the history of formal labour relations, the number of business agreements, however, exceeded the number of sectoral conventions. This says all about the time we live in collective bargaining. In 2011 we had about 1 million and 300 000 workers covered by collective bargaining ; today we have about 250 000. This government wanted to break the backbone of the collective bargaining, reducing its scope by 83 %. Fourth : PSD / CDS-PP governance also made the conditions and rights of work go backwards. Here is an unprecedented event that says everything: the strike in the Labour Conditions Authority itself ( ACT ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who have the task of promoting, controlling and monitoring compliance with the legal provisions of relations and conditions at work are on strike. Why? For lack of the means necessary for the task of the ACT.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u7	It wasn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u8	In the absence of a strategy of action or political vision, which has led, even, that since 2012 the Government has not presented the missing document defining the strategy for the prevention of health and safety at work. For at the end of the Government's de-investment, today I would like to announce that the PS initiative is opposed, which has already presented a draft resolution to ensure that all the necessary means are guaranteed to fulfil the role of the Labour Conditions Authority, including the opening of a competition for labour inspectors in respect of the ILO Conventions ( International Labour Organisation ). Fifth, and last, point: PSD/CDS-PP governance, aggressively, compressed by fear and always justified by the famous expression: « It is better than nothing! », politically imposed an agenda of precariousness and atypical contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and CDS have placed themselves in total precariousness: in bonds and incomes. Today, we have a labour situation marked by a shift in the model of full-time contracts, without term and in a subordinate relationship with the same employer, for a model of precariousness and atypicality. The PSD and the CDS offer Portuguese a model in which workers are forced to work of limited duration, occasional, seasonal, temporary, subcontracting, false green receipts, part-time in the underemployment or inundated turnover of professional stages, and the PS assumes that it will intervene in this insurmountable reality of exploiting labour, especially of the younger. Precautionary hit alarming beats.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u9	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u10	He fell on parents and children, on almost all families who knew well the anguish of those who went from professional traineeship to contract term, and then passed on to green receipts and when he thinks he cannot get any worse, he is pointed to the country's exit door to emigration. They are people like the daughter of Salgueiro Maia, who symbolically here I want to evoke—and I recall—because it is a public witness, without any demagogic sense...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u11	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u12	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I was saying, they are people like Salgueiro Maia's daughter — our biggest hero and who we have recently celebrated — who, publicly already said, has already been forced to emigrate several times because he did not have decent job opportunities in Portugal. A common case to thousands of Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u13	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u14	Being responsible for this work situation, the Portuguese people living much worse, the government and the PSD think they deserve congratulations. For the PS have the confrontation with reality, the defense of people's living conditions and the affirmation of solutions for decent work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u15	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u16	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. Congratulations only to Portuguese workers by celebration of 1. May in the hope of a year from now we will be together looking at a new development horizon for the world of work in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u17	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist on asking the speakers to respect the time of the regime. Although there is, in practice, some tolerance with opening interventions, it is manifestly excessive to exceed time by almost double. He asked for the opportunity to see the intervention times. For an intervention in the opening of the debate, the Government has the floor by the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by thanking the Socialist Party for the timely and timely marking of this debate. Today's date, chosen by the Socialist Party, allows us to reflect a little more on the latest data from the National Institute of Statistics that were known yesterday. Unemployment has fallen. It came down for the second consecutive month and this fall is, in fact, reinforced. The National Institute of Statistics set the value at 13, 5 %, representing a decrease of 1, 2 percentage points compared to what happened one year ago. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u19	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u20	With the same year, unemployment fell in all groups: in men; particularly in women; and even with more expression in young people — in young people it fell more than 2 percentage points compared to last year. We are talking less than 70,000 people in unemployment than a year ago and less than 15 000 young people in March 2014. They are still high, but the truth is that these data from the National Institute of Statistics confirm what we already had from other indicators. Also in March, unemployment at the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training fell, with below 600 000 registered persons, which had not occurred since November 2011, and for 2014 there was a decrease in the number of persons enrolled in employment centres of around 100 000, and in particular in a reality which, from the social point of view, is very relevant, that of unemployed couples, fell by 12. the consecutive month and is now 7, 6 % less than the record in March of last year. But also from the point of view of social security contributions there is a trend of improvement: contributions until March follow 4, 5 % above 2014, i.e. more EUR 150 million than in the same period last year. In fact, it is still curious that the value of unemployment, established yesterday by the National Institute of Statistics, 13, 5 %, is already below the value of unemployment which is considered by the Socialist Party, in its report, for the year 2015. It is certainly still very high numbers that we want to continue to work so that they can be reduced through the consolidation of reforms made, reforms, these, always done in dialogue with the social partners, either through the creation of active employment measures, either through the recruitment we have been developing, or through the Guarantee Youth programme which now covers 260 000 young people in Portugal and which we want to reach 375 000 by the end of the year. A programme involving an investment of EUR 1300 million and allowing, in view of its implementation, good news that I would like to announce today: for the Youth Guarantee programme we were able to guarantee a pre-financing of EUR 48 million still this year of 2015 so that it can be possible until we supplant the goal we initially had for this year. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It will be possible to create employment opportunities, either through the new Reativar programme, aimed especially at long-term unemployment and unemployment for older people, which translates into training in a business context for those over 30 years of age into an investment to which the State allocates EUR 43 million, but we also want to help the geographical mobility of unemployed people with increased support, giving more encouragement to enable companies to hire them. However, we want to do so by placing it in a greater link between the government, public employment services and businesses. It is the economy that really generates jobs, which creates opportunities. in this sense, allow you to take advantage of this debate to announce a measure that we will shortly lead to the social partners and that aims to reformulate the network of technical support to the creation and consolidation of projects to create self-employment and entrepreneurship support companies. We want to have more follow-up to these Portuguese, we want to be able to generate more projects and in this sense lends better support and greater coverage in our country. So we will increase the network of institutions that together with IEFP support these projects and will boost their activity in an instrument that translates into more than 2 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, compared to 2013, the peak of the crisis we inherited and in which we were subject to a hard Memorandum of Understanding that had been commissioned by the previous government, we have more employment, but we also have better jobs. Of 17, 5 % unemployment rate, we're recovering to 13, 5 %. It is still a very high figure, but it represents less than 217 000 unemployed people in Portugal. According to the data of the National Institute of Statistics, the job we have today is of better quality and less precarious. For each job created with a term contract, three jobs are created without end, effective in the business frameworks. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u21	This results from the improvement of the economy, resulting from the resilience of our employers and our workers, but it also certainly results from the reforms that, from a labour point of view, we had the ability to make, always in social dialogue, always in dialogue with the social partners. We know, however, that we need to continue to work to have a more accompanied labour market, which can, in this sense, generate more employment opportunities. A labour market that provides support to those who are still in a state of unemployment in order to be able to take advantage of their opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the unemployment rate in 2014 was 13.9%. It is also important to remember that the first IMF forecast for 2014 estimated unemployment in Portugal at 17, 7 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u22	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u23	... OECD 16.1 %, the European Commission 17.7 % and the fact is that unemployment in Portugal was substantially below these forecasts. In 2014, employment on behalf of others with non-term, stable and non- precarious employment contracts increased by about 120 000. The reduction of 77 000 self-employed persons and 44 000 part-time workers indicates a decrease in precarious work, but which was more than compensated for the creation of stable and lasting work. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... and even underemployment, part-time workers, also decreased by about 14 000. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by paraphrasing someone we all know and who is dear to the Socialist Party: «The situation in Portugal is quite different from that which was four years ago» and I would even add that the situation is better. This evolution is already accepted by almost all and is a situation that improves people's lives because it allows a recovery at various levels, but, above all, it also allows a recovery of the welfare system. The preservation of the social security system is important for those who are in the labour market today, for those who are protected by that market, but also for those who have already retired or want to do so in the future. It is essential to ensure this protection for all Portuguese, without exception. That is why we cannot use the money from the social security system, the money from pensioners and workers to make political promises. This Government has been committed to the sustainability of the system both in the measures it has taken, both in the reforms it has created, and in the transfers from the State budget to the welfare system it has ensured.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u24	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u25	It is about EUR 4500 million from the State budget to ensure the sustainability of social security. I say this here today because the Socialist Party, which gave rise to this debate, announced that it intends to reduce the TSU of companies, at the same time with a reduction of the TSU of workers, in a total of 8 percentage points. Accounts made to the Socialist Party's proposal, social security would lose EUR 14 billion of revenue until the end of the entire proposed fiscal year. EUR 14 billion removed from the social system which ensures the payment of pensions and social benefits, as important as unemployment coverage, illness or pensions. Given this, there is a question the Socialist Party has to answer:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u26	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u27	... in a system where the current pension payment is insured by current contributions, how would pensions be paid? How would they, and I would say again, "they would" on parole, because I do not believe that this is going to happen, pay pensions, unemployment benefit or sickness benefit? It is the social protection system that is fundamental to the protection of all Portuguese who may be involved. In view of the importance of the debate, the Socialist Party cannot leave the Portuguese unanswered. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u28	Mrs. Members, also on the basis of a principle of equality of arms, the Bureau has admitted this overdue time. I would ask the next speakers to observe the intervention times. For intervention in the first round, Mr. Members Adam Silva, by PSD, Isabel Santos by PS, Cecilia Meireles by CDS-PP, Jorge Machado, by PCP, José Moura Soeiro, by the Block of Left, José Luís Ferreira, by Os Verdes, and also the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Life, like the National Institute of Statistics, does not surprise us: two small boxes of surprises. Let the Socialist Party say so! Inebriated with the unemployment rate for February, published by the National Institute of Statistics, which reversed the declining trend that had occurred since the beginning of the year, the PS declared that it was a "serious denial and serious warning to the government".
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u30	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u31	Then, in this anxiety of exacerbating cataclysms, he hastened to mark this urgent debate. It wasn't May 1st, it was the illusion of February's data.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u32	Drop the mask!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u33	Let it be clear from the outset: this urgent debate is the son of this new culture of the new leadership of the PS, a culture marked by « tremendism », by negativism, that nothing builds up, but everything succeeds. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u34	For PS deconsolation, the INE is actually a small box of surprises. in the March numbers, yesterday known, we have: first, it corrects the fall in the unemployment rate of February, which is no longer 14, 1 %, which brought so much excitement to the PS, to be 13, 6 % ;... [[Well, well...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u35	... second, the unemployment rate in March is below February 13, 5 %; third — and now the novelty for the PS — since the beginning of 2015 unemployment has not stopped coming down and employment has not stopped rising both month after month as compared to last year. We're all here, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, everyone, waiting for the congratulations of the Socialist Party :... [[PS laughter.]] ...the Government, the entrepreneurs and the Portuguese in general. Don't you want to say congratulations? So I ask the question: who set up the PS in this game? Was it the National Institute of Statistics? Were the companies that took the opportunities and have been creating jobs? Were the Portuguese in general who have fought abnegately for their inclusion and professional success? Or has the Government promoted all possible conditions for the Portuguese to have confidence and hope, as has been said today by the Minister? At the same time, he asked us to explain what the EUR 48 million will be for the Youth Guarantee programme and to detail this network of technical support for the creation of enterprises and self-employment, because they are instruments that, by the way, will frame the PS, but favour the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u37	Don't! Whoever cheated the PS was the PS, it was his recklessness, this indomitable will to go with all the thirst to the pot. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u38	That's what set the PS. A little more moderation, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS. After all, we are talking about employment and unemployment, realities where life, the future and the well-deserved success of millions of Portuguese people are playing. This Government and this majority know very well that, despite the successes that Portugal is experiencing in combating unemployment and in promoting employment, there are still many Portuguese people who demand an opportunity to achieve themselves socially and professionally. By now, and referring to Captain Salgueiro Maia's daughter, she also counts, of course, but, just to refer, she did not leave the country in the mandate of this government, she left in May 2011, in the time of the government of José Socrates! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is that we cannot leave anyone behind and therefore cannot play with these sensitive realities. And there are also no inconsistent promises, which feed on vain hopes, in a dramatic repetition of what has happened now a decade ago. I am referring to the document of the Socialist Party One Decade for Portugal, which is only half a decade. On employment and unemployment issues, it is important to highlight and ask three questions. First, the PS is part of a scenario that in 2015 Portugal will register an unemployment rate of 13, 6 %. We realize that, in the search of originality, the PS wants to distance itself, accentuating the negative of the government projection, which points to 13, 2 %. What we do not realize is that the unemployment rate provided by the PS is above reality as of March. Wouldn't it be a quick fix, I wonder? Second, without explaining how the unemployment rate provided for by the PS will be 7, 4 % in 2019. We are in the domain of pure miracle and of the ultimate inconsisteence, which reminds us of the promises of a decade ago. We know what happened during the two mandates of José Socrates : unemployment increased from 7 % in the second quarter of 2005 to 12 % in June 2011, i.e. 4 %, 8 % more. Finally, without any justification, according to the PS, employment will rise sharply, far above what allows the expected growth for the economy in the socialist cartilage. How many new jobs will be created? How many? How many will be created? It's not quantified, just the percentages. But it will be hundreds of thousands, perhaps quite above, I say, of 150 000. We realize that the PS of Antonio Costa does not want to quantify the number of jobs to create or, better, recover, to use a verb with history.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u39	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u40	It is that « cold-watered cat is afraid » and António Costa, despite the news almost financial insolvency of the PS, will not be available to recycle and re-edit a poster that takes 10 years and remains an example of everything that should not be done in politics and much less in employment policies. You see what I'm talking about, ladies and gentlemen. PS Members? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u41	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u42	With all serenity, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, behind unemployment numbers, there are people who struggle, suffer, who yearn and who aspire to enjoy all the rights that our democracy enshrines. We know very well about that. The PS didn't know, in the past, and it seems to still not know. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u43	I'm still asking the ladies. Members who respect regiment times, at least when the Bureau draws attention. For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without bringing the errands, type Guidinha Writings made at home, I wanted to leave two notes here. The questions raised by the PSD in relation to employment are interesting and therefore a question to which Mr Minister will certainly be able to answer. In 2019, the number of jobs will be 104 000 units below what had been estimated in 2011 as being the reality in 2015. Minister, what happened? [[P.S.'s applause.]] I saw a speech like Alice on the Other Side of the Mirror here. It is clear that the majority has already tried to turn to the opposition, has already realized that it has fallen into the opposition and has already tried to question the Socialist Party in the position of government. In fact, this atmosphere is well felt in the air, and we understand it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u45	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u46	But the Minister and Mr Adam Silva came here, very excited — they seemed to be Leonor, not handsome, but enthusiastic and not confident — to talk about a backlog in unemployment in the house of 0, 2 %. Interesting, interesting! However, they did not read the second paragraph of the INE highlights, which states that « The evolution of the unemployment rate in the most recent months has been characterized by some instability... » — under "instability" — «... ( alternating monthly increases and decreases of a relative small size ), which may show an undefined trajectory in the labour market ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Minister, be careful! Be careful, because the moment advises caution. Mr. Minister here asks the TSU for workers and employers. I must remember that it was the Minister who was alone, I remember, alone — I remember the scenario — to defend the decline of TSU for employers at 8 % at the expense of an increase in TSU for workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u48	What did you do at that time, Minister? Oh, my God! What did you do at that time? Oh, my God! What was the weight for sustainability? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is only today that the Minister has to answer. I understand that if you want to put it on the other side of the mirror, but today it is still your turn to answer and it is here and now that you have to answer, Minister. It does not help to come with the pink scenarios that you have tried to paint us here, because you will have to paint these pink scenarios to those two-thirds of unemployed people who, at the moment, have no support subsidies, to the more than two-thirds of unemployed people who have been unemployed for more than a year, to the 50% of unemployed who have been unemployed for more than two years, to the unemployed who run from enterprise, in consecutive precarious contracts, and to the CIS (employment-inclusion contracts) who are in the Public Administration, to be exploited, replacing workers with links and permanent needs. But I look at this bench, Mr Minister, and I notice in a curious fact: the Secretary of State of the Public Administration is missing here. It is that the Public Administration also means employment. There is also a public employment policy that should be discussed here, but I understand that they do not want to discuss it, because there is really no public employment policy, which you did was a public dismissal policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I understand this absence. It is that Mr. Secretary of State of the Public Administration was today, on the eve of 1st. the May one, running, made Cinderela, at the last moment, sign an ACEP (public employment collective agreement), after maintaining, for more than one year, hundreds of collective agreements under a secretary veto, because you did not want to assume 35 hours a week...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u49	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u50	...and the workers, in their struggle, won you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The workers, in their struggle for 35 hours, won you when you wanted to impose the 40 hours of work, as an imperative rule, in all force, violating constitutional standards. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u51	The CDS-PP intervention is followed. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, this debate does not fail to have some elements that are at least curious. And there is one thing I have to say: when there was recession, and there was, and when that and the situation of absolute emergency and bankruptcy to which the country came led to unemployment and rising unemployment, this majority never denied this situation and never denied the suffering and the problems that this caused.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u54	You've never denied? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u55	And I am sorry to say that when we are able to turn around, when we have the economy growing, when unemployment starts to reverse the trend, you say nothing. You must not deny that the economy is growing, because, in your famous model, which you still presented yesterday, but that you no longer want to talk, full of shame, is precisely recognized that the economy is growing. So it's good that things get right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u56	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u58	But I was saying, when we're able to turn around, the opposition doesn't say a word. When many Portuguese finally begin to see the reversal of the trend, to see jobs to be created and to see unemployment coming down, you are unable to say a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u60	That is, when unemployment grows, which is a serious problem, you are having a party; when unemployment goes down, you pick up a melancholy silence and realize that nothing is going on. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u61	It's funny, because, in fact, good news for the Portuguese is bad news for the PS. And so broken, distancing the real life of the Portuguese, I don't think they have a very happy future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But the truth is that politics is made of choices and I think it is worth talking about. And if the PS presented its choices and options, it was precisely for them to be discussed. The other day I had the opportunity to see that they refuse to answer all the questions, but I think it is worth answering. [[PS protests.]] In fact, you notice your discomfort with the questions, by the noise they make every time they are confronted with them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u62	Now! Let's start the screams!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u63	...but they are apparently your options.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u64	On the job situation, say something!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u65	So I would like to know from Mr Minister the following: is it true that pensions are paid with today's contributions, i.e. pensions this year are paid with the contributions this year? Oh, my God! And is it not true that if we want to reduce social security revenues, that means that we have to find another source of income in order to be able to pay pensions? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u66	Having said this, I ask very clearly: is there another option in relation to the PS plan? It is that the PS plan foresees, in fact, cutting, and drastically cutting into the income of social security. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one: either you explain where you are going to get the money, because this is not explained in the document, the answer is highly unsatisfactory, or you admit that we are facing the philosophy of "getting the vote now and solving the problem later" and therefore basically do not have the slightest idea of how you will pay pensions, if you will, by chance, win the elections, or then third option, in reality, you already know that you will cut pensions, just not want to say it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u67	PCP intervention is followed. Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Mr Minister here is discussing positive changes, of tenths, after several months of negative changes in the unemployment rate. It takes a tenth, literally, to a tenth, like a table of salvation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u69	A flower!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u70	...of a ship that has already sunk. Mr. Minister, the data show that since 2009 with the PS and PSD PECs and the PS troika, PSDs and CDS, around 500,000 jobs have been destroyed in our country. But more than numbers, Mr Minister, are situations of concrete families and dismissals that continue to happen in our country. See, for example, farewells to the Povoa Casino and Lithography Coimbra. Data show that more than 300 000 people have been forced to emigrate and more than 808,000 people have been shot into poverty. Minister, combating unemployment has never been an objective of this government. Anyone who wants to combat unemployment does not facilitate layoffs, as did the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u71	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u72	... does not reduce the compensation to make redundancies cheaper, does not promote redundancies in the Public Administration, as this Government has done, and intends to continue to do until 2019, according to the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u74	Anyone who wants to combat unemployment does not increase working hours, does not increase retirement age, as this government has done. All this proves, Mr Minister, that PSD and CDS have never wanted to combat unemployment; rather, PSD and CDS know very well that the high levels of unemployment and the low protection of unemployment benefit are fundamental tools to lower wages and worsen exploitation. This is the real political programme of this Government of national disgrace. But, Minister, we want to focus on a very specific issue. The Socialist Party has put forward a proposal aimed at liberalising dismissals and in which, under the scope of a conciliation process, they intend to extend the causes of collective dismissal to individual dismissal. I remember that PSD and CDS-PP have already made it easier for them to arrive and on, with changes to the Labour Code, the rules of layoffs, making them easier and cheaper. The results are in view of all Portuguese, Minister : levels of unsustainable unemployment for our country. Mr Minister, the CFP does not agree with this path and therefore we say that we do not need more layoffs, we do not need more precariousness, we do need effective policies that promote the fight against precariousness, that promote the fight against redundancies, by way of an amendment to the Labour Code that effectively protects those who work and create wealth in our country. Thus, Mr Minister, the question that is being asked at this time of political debate in which there are different alternatives, and the CFP has a very concrete alternative, is how to fight unemployment by facilitating layoffs. The fact is that unemployment is not combated by facilitating layoffs, as the Government has been doing, and as the Socialist Party has shown, it also intends to continue to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u75	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security : What the Government has done is basically to use public money to finance precarious work and to reduce wages — this is called the 'economy of internships'. What Mr Minister here today announced was that this economy is to continue and that is your solution. Your solution has this consequence, Minister: Graduate for commercial departments: good presentation; high level of responsibility, rigor and initiative; customer orientation; problem solving; computer knowledge; driving licence; availability for travel; schedule — full time; salary — internship; Electrotechnical engineer in the field of telecommunications: knowledge of CAD and Excel ; schedule — full time; salary — internship; Clinical research in Matosinhos : Bachelor of Computer Science, Mathematics or Life Sciences; I like detail and rigour; schedule — full time; contract — internship; Receiptist, with manager profile, for medical clinic: hours — full time; salary — internship; Cleaning officer: own car; schedule — full time; salary — internship; Clothing shops, Architecture, Design, Psychology, Bachelor's degree in Mechanics...Stage, internships, internships! ... These are the job offers that exist, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u78	It's all internships, Minister! Is this your notion of competitiveness? Until when are we gonna be doing internships? Until we retire? Always internships? Oh, my God! Open... What you have done is use European funds to degrade work and employment. Why do companies have to hire, can they survive at the cost of this free work or work scheme financed by the State? Oh, my God! Six in every 10 jobs created are internships — these are data from the Banco de Portugal. You cut everything: in investment and wages; fired officials; degraded the Labour Conditions Authority; cut unemployment benefit. The only thing they have to propose are the internships or entrepreneurship projects—it was missing here! ...and perhaps Mr. Minister still arranges a volunteering program to announce today! We know the results of this policy: there is not only 20% unemployment, it is not only one young person who is unemployed; today, the average gross wage is €581! This is the result of this policy: lower wages! Mr. Minister, 581 € gross is about 500 € net — it is the average wage created since 2012. As if this were not enough, Mr. Prime Minister even said, in the presentation of the National Reform Programme, that the cost of working for companies is very high in Portugal and, more importantly, that reducing the cost of working is the reform that we have not yet been able to do. Mr Minister, you have even managed to make this reform, but I would like to ask you the following : 581 gross € and 500 net is the average wage in Portugal. What is your goal to further reduce work costs? How long do you want to be there? When will you be satisfied with the cost of work and the value of wages in Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u79	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr. Minister says unemployment is falling...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u81	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u82	...and even looked at the INE numbers with optimism, I would say, delusional. Mr Minister, there is no drop in the unemployment rate in Portugal. The numbers continue to be dramatic and they are not only worse, as you will certainly know, because of emigration, because of the discouraged ones who have ceased to be accounted for and because many unemployed people are being placed in public services for a few months and then return to unemployment, without however entering the statistics. Therefore, the figures do not reflect the real dimension of a problem, which, in fact, this government has helped to grow, in particular with the amendments made to the Labour Code. This is because, at a time when there is an effective fight against unemployment, the PSD/CDS government, with these amendments, made an invitation to employers to fire, making dismissal not only cheaper but also easier. But the government did not stand around here with regard to increasing the flow of people without work. We must not forget that this government has fired thousands and thousands of workers from the public sector. In other words, the Government's effort to combat unemployment was to facilitate dismissal for the private sector and to fire in the public sector. By associating this effort with the absence of active employment measures or policies, we continue to have historical levels of unemployment which only shame the government because the government has long lost its shame. Since the arrival of austerity policies, 500 000 jobs have already been destroyed. Mr Minister, we are now not talking about tenths, we are talking about half a million extinct jobs, a real drama for thousands and thousands of families, especially for people who are unemployed and who still have no access to any social support or protection, because so far this government has been able to withdraw them. But we have more, Minister : is that the new job or the small job created is precarious work, without rights and very poorly paid. This government, in addition to sowing unemployment, is seeking to institutionalize precariousness in labour relations. Here is an example, which, I believe, is widespread throughout the country: more than half of the young workers in the district of Lisbon are precarious workers, even though they perform permanent functions. Mr Minister, this is the complete glove in labor relations. Moreover, the degradation of working conditions is a reality that the government cannot hide, make the effort it makes. More: it has even been aggravated by the nearly non-operation of the Labour Authority. in a framework of 500 inspectors there are 308, but only 230 to 240 work on the ground. Therefore, the need to strengthen the ACT inspectors is absolutely imperative. In fact, it is the Inspector-General himself who recognizes the need for a reinforcement of 100 inspectors. Workers' organisations believe that there is a need for many more inspectors and many more superior technicians. Minister, what does the government say? Does the government say it will solve the problem of ACT by opening an invitation to tender for 42 new inspectors? Oh, my God! Is that how the government wants to solve the problem? Oh, my God! I'm not even talking about what workers' organisations claim to be fair so that ACT can be able to work. At least I speak from the Inspector-General's point of view, which refers to 100 inspectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u83	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u84	I will finish, Madam President. And the government wants to solve the problem with 40 new inspectors? Oh, my God! It was good for Mr. Minister to say something about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u85	He now gives the floor to the Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u86	Madam President, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Adam Silva, Isabel Santos, Cecília Meireles, Jorge Machado, José Soeiro and José Luís Ferreira. Let me start by responding directly to the Socialist Party's bench, to Mrs. Isabel Santos, reminding me of something that seems important to me. When the unemployment figures in February, which were above 14 %, came out, the Socialist Party's statement was that this indicator was, and I quote, "a painful denial of government policies".
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u87	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u88	It happens that the National Institute of Statistics corrected this data, reviewed this data below. I do not cease to find it surprising that the Socialist Party's bench, when there is an indicator that is not positive, seems to rejoice with that indicator. It seems to consider good news for the Socialist Party those that are bad news for the country... [[PS protests.]] ...and I, Mrs. Isabel Santos, consider this, from the point of view of a party with the historical responsibility of the Socialist Party, something deeply wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u89	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u90	When there is a less good indicator, the Socialist Party should not be happy with that indicator, but on the contrary, Mrs. Member, when there are good indicators, when we have good news, it also leads the Socialist Party to have the ability to realise that structurally, in Portuguese society, although slowly, from the point of view of employment, there is a recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u91	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u92	It is not only the National Institute of Statistics that says so, as Eurostat also says, that it is also the numbers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u93	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u94	... and -and say so, Mrs Deputy, the recovery of contributions to social security itself. I believe that the Socialist Party's debate is extremely polluted because it does not recognise that from 2002 until 2013 unemployment has always risen and that from 2013 to today unemployment is falling — it is slowly but firmly declining. Our position is different, it is that of those who do not lower their arms, of those who want to do so much more, of those who want to help companies to continue to hire. That is precisely why, for us, it is very important to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that we are working to, for example, have 260 000 young people in employment measures, in training or education measures, through the Youth Guarantee programme. [[PS protests.]] That is exactly why it is very important for us to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that we are working to ensure that pre-financing, which was 1 % from the point of view of the European Union, is going to be 30 %. Yesterday we were able to have this approved in the European Union and I think it is good news for Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u95	That is exactly why, for us, it is very important to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that we are working towards having more entities that can help young and less young people to launch self-employment projects, entrepreneurship in the creation of their businesses. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] But we also worked — and it was good for the Socialist Party to recognize this — in social protection. The honourable Member was part of a government that ended, ended with the increase, giving a little more to unemployed couples who had children in charge. This is a very important measure, from a social point of view. It was this government that resumed this initiative with which you ended.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u96	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u97	As Mrs Deputy, it was this government that dropped from 15 months to 12 months the period of discounts a young person has to make for social security in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. Just as — and that, Mrs Deputies, it would be very good for you to recognize — it was this majority that extended, twice, what was envisaged in the social unemployment allowance. [[PCP protests.]] That is why today, the social protection rate, against that social protection rate of the Socialist Party's time, i.e., the State response is 6% higher than the Socialist Party's time. [[PS protests.]] But there is an answer which Mrs Deputies strangely did not give in this debate, and it is very important, because the question is quite serious. In Portugal we have a system in which current pensions are paid by current contributions. You, of course, do not want to change structurally, are not interested in giving greater freedom to future generations in order to organize their future. I respect that, it is something we can discuss. But there is one question that you have to answer: if the current pensions are paid by the current contributions, how is it possible to ensure the payment of pensions, if you withdraw a revenue of EUR 14 billion from the pension system? [[PS Protests and PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] Madam Member, it is EUR 14 billion! Either it's crazy or it's irresponsible! Is that what you're talking about? The Socialist Party has to say very clearly how the State ensures the payment of these pensions by withdrawing this important revenue. Once again, thanking the questions put here, I would like to remind the Communist Party of something that seems fundamental to me. I will not talk about the Socialist Party's proposal, Mr. Jorge Machado will certainly ask the Socialist Party about the complete liberalisation of dismissal in Portugal, the single contract that Mr. Deputies referred to, but I would like to say the following: this majority has made a profound reform in labour law. And he did this reform as it should be done: in social consultation, discussing matters with the social partners, reaching a social agreement. That is how we reviewed the Labour Code, and it was so, Mr President, that for example, the minimum wage has increased in Portugal. [[PCP protests.]] I can tell you that this reform is beginning to bear fruit today. Today, the Portuguese economy has the possibility that for each contract in the long term, for each more precarious contract generated in Portugal, three contracts are generated within the actual framework of the companies. [[PS and PCP protests.]] Mr President, this means, of course, that employment in Portugal is changing, creating more sustainable and quality jobs; that it is reducing in Portugal the number of people working part-time and is increasing, with meaning, the number of people working full-time. And that, Mr President, is also the result not only of the resilience of our economy, of our economic agents, but also of the reforms that the government, together with the social partners, had the ability to undertake. Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, wanted to remember something that I consider to be quite important: today, about 70% of young people who have an opportunity in the labour market and in which this opportunity is given to them by the professional traineeship are able to stay in the labour market. And this, Mr President, in a difficult time of very high unemployment and in which young unemployment is even higher, is something that I consider positive. We give a young person an opportunity to be able to guarantee higher qualifications in the labour market, but, above all, to have an effective opportunity to keep on the labour market, which I consider very important, Mr José Moura Soeiro. But I also want to tell you that, in addition to the concern of young unemployment, the government has another concern, which is that of long-term unemployment. It is true that in Portugal we were able to extend the duration of the 25-year-old Guarantee Programme, which is the European average, to 30 years old,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u98	They can go up to 50!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u99	... but we felt it was necessary to strengthen active employment measures for Portuguese people who are over 30 years old and are often long outside the labour market, particularly those who have been in that situation for more than 12 months. That's why we launched a program, the Reativar,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u100	They're already on election campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u101	... which allows the training and qualification of these Portuguese in a business context, giving them an effective opportunity to be able to return to the labour market. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the question of Mr José Luís Ferreira, whom I thank, I would just like to say the following, which seems to me to be quite relevant : the Government, the Secretary of State for Employment, in particular, has closely followed all the concerns of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ). That is precisely why, Mr President, it is important to remember that the Working Conditions Authority does not only have inspectors, it has a set of other technicians who help do all the work, which is a very important, frankly important work from the point of view of the inspection of work
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u102	Oh, is it? Oh, my God! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u103	For this reason, we had the care to change, to be able to reformulate the ACT's own functions, focusing on what is essential,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u104	What's that worth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u105	... focusing more on the private sector and less on public employment, because we feel that there is actually the bulk of ACT's concerns. But, ladies and gentlemen, we always have the ability to face problems and that is exactly why we have already opened competition for 42 ACT inspectors, who, with a set of other technicians, can effectively cover the current ACT framework, which will certainly strengthen their intervention capacity, which is very relevant to us. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u106	We're 150!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u107	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u108	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u109	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u110	Mrs. President. — You have the floor, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u111	Mr President, the Minister has just mentioned again a 70% retention rate. The CFP Parliamentary Group has already requested the Government five times since November 2014 to support this reference. We also deliver written questions, asking for these data. We have already been promised five times the delivery of these elements and we would like to know whether this is the debate that we are finally going to be able to find out whether this statement is confirmed by the Minister or whether we have to start to conclude that these numbers are forged and, therefore, they do not present to us the evidence of what they say. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. President. — The Bureau shall make a request for the floor from the Government. Mr. Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u112	Mr President, if I may, it is also for an inquiry on the conduct of the proceedings, reaffirming here, in plenary, that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party asked questions to the Government that have already been answered by the normal parliamentary channel. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u113	No, no! Since January 30!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u114	Mr. Minister, you're here to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u115	Mrs. President. — For the second round of the debate, the following Members are already included. Members : Maria das Mercês Soares, do PSD ; Catarina Marcelino, do PS ; Artur Rêgo, do CDS-PP ; Rita Rato, do PCP ; José Moura Soeiro, do BE and José Luís Ferreira, de Os Verdes. I give the floor to Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are addressing again — and it is never too much — the problem of unemployment and employment, which is extremely important for the lives of Portuguese people. from our point of view, contrary to the fact that often some of you and Mrs. Members intend to make unemployment happen to us, it is a scourge, it is a drama and, however good the results are, what appeals to our conscience is, more and more, we work to get the country out of the real dispensation that they have given us, a country without credibility, an exhausted, exhausted country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u117	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u118	... to have a revived country, with strength, with courage, with results and with acquired credibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u119	Mr Minister, I would like to convey to you that, for us, the Government has taken the measures necessary to help the country get out of the difficulties I have already mentioned. These reforms and measures have allowed the unemployment rate to fall by more than 4 % since February 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u121	Mr. Minister, it's not enough, we want a lot more! And we know that the government has taken very important measures, which today the opposition condemns but that for many Portuguese, it has been an open door, a new opportunity to have its job. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u122	And the numbers show an increase in the number of employees and an increase in contributions to social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u123	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u124	That is why I cannot but ask the Minister a question about the numbers he has mentioned here, which leave us very concerned. He pointed out that as the Socialist Party presents a reduction of 8% of social security contributions, of the single social rate, as is commonly known by the Portuguese, it has an estimated reduction of 14 billion. Tell us, Minister: will the Portuguese in fact be aware that this number corresponds to about a year's worth of contributions from all Portuguese to social security?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u125	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u127	How will the sustainability of social security remain? How is it safeguarded if this measure can evolve? I do not believe that the PS is here to be considered as government — 'presumption and water for sale, each one takes whatever he wants' — and I do not think that they have the opportunity to do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Minister, would you like to ask you how social security will ensure that all those who have discounted during a lifetime, or who will be discounted during a lifetime, with a cut in social security contributions of about a year, can you see guaranteed their reforms and unemployment benefit? Mr Minister, PSD does not sell illusions, PSD does not account, PSD does not promise 150 000 or 300 000 jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u128	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u129	We don't create a soap ball, which is very pretty in the air but which, when it bursts, leaves us nothing. We promise work, rigour, commitment, social dialogue, and we value Portuguese workers. Congratulations to them! Congratulations to the Portuguese people! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u130	I now give the floor to Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the PS for an intervention. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I would like to begin by telling Minister Pedro Mota Soares that the Socialist Party is not yet in the government. So who is here being questioned about policies that you applied during a term are you and you are the Minister. If there were no doubt about what the Government and the majority think about the labour market in Portugal today in this debate, it has become much clearer. The keys to the permanent austerity measures they implement in the country are precarious, low wages, emigration. These are the words that have guided your government and your governance,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a government and a majority who advocate this policy for the private sector and who put it into operation in the Public Administration without any pain or pity. The fact that I am not here today, Mr. Secretary of State for Public Administration, reveals well the views of this Government about the employees of the Public Administration: precarious work, Employment-Inclusion Contracts. at the same time that they send hundreds of workers to requalification, they place, under the Employment-Inclusion Contracts, workers and workers unemployed in schools, health centers and hospitals, in social security, exactly with the functions of those and those who dispensed. These people — they shouldn't! — they are employed without wages, without holidays, without social protection and without any possibility of having a contract of employment in the Public Administration. And we ask how many are, because we still don't know, because the government doesn't tell us how many employment-inclusion contracts exist today in the Public Administration, and we like to get out of here today with this information. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards the precariousness of work and workers in outsourcing, the government has sent workers to retrain and continues to admit people through companies, many of them created for this purpose, with precarious working situations, which are no more than false green receipts. We also like to know how many people are in this situation. Finally, as regards job insecurity, workers sent to requalification, social security are more than 600 people; in the army factories there are more than 50 people; in sectors such as the environment, the economy, agriculture, sport and youth, more than a few hundred are expected; in the end, there will be more than 1000 workers. The Socialist Party wanted to hear the INA's leadership on this process, but most prevented the hearing. The Socialist Party wanted to hear the protections of these areas. In seven requirements, the majority plummeted four and adjourned three. The government is afraid of what? Why does the government not tell us what is going on with requalification? I'm asking again: the government is afraid of what?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u132	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u133	I'm done now, Madam President. What does the government want to hide from Portuguese and Portuguese? Most are preventing the Assembly of the Republic from monitoring the action of the Government, most are preventing the Assembly of the Republic from having information on the requalification process in the Public Administration. It is today a good opportunity, here, to give us the information that has been ringing on this process for weeks and weeks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u134	Mr Artur Rêgo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u135	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries : Really, the PS can do here repeatedly, over the years, this sad figure, which has already been highlighted here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u136	Sad figure makes you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u137	... to be almost anti-Portuguese, because, every time things go wrong, they yell, “Here’s El Rei”, and to mark urgent debates. When things go well, you have to devalue, you have to lie down, you have to say nothing means nothing. I shall report on the opening of this debate by Mr Nuno Sá, who said only this: « No delay, no record can hide reality, the numbers answer these questions clearly». [[Protests by PS Member Nuno Sá.]] You are quite right, Mr President, we are going to stop juggling and move on to numbers, which are very simple to quantify. We entered the government in mid-2011, with a State Budget still of the time of the Socialist Party, with a country completely bankrupt, with no money in the safes, making use of external aid. [[Protests by PS Member Nuno Sá.]] This was the country we inherited and I will tell you what happened, Member : between 2005 and 2011 the Socialist Party was able to increase the unemployment rate from 7, 2 % to 12, 4 % and we inherited the country in these circumstances. Four years later, with our governance, the unemployment rate in the same period rose from 12, 4 % to 13, 1 %. See the difference between the two governments there! They are facts, sir! The poverty risk rate with the Socialist Party in 2011 when it left the Government had worsened and declined to 2006 levels. The employment rate, when the Socialist Party handed us the country in 2011 had withdrawn 14 years. The country's investment rate, when the Socialist Party handed us the country in 2011 had withdrawn 19 years. No longer to mention the phenomenon of emigration, which you all talk about, which, when the Socialist Party gave us the country in 2011, had retreated to levels of 1967 — 44 years, Mr Deputy! however, despite all this demagogy and all this sad figure of rejoicing when things go wrong, when now there are data from the corrected INE that have been said that, after all, they were wrong and that the unemployment rate was not above 14 %, but was, on the contrary, 13 %, 6 %, what does the Socialist Party say here? Does it, in fact, say "well enough for the Portuguese, well enough for all those who have got a job"? No, none of this! It devalues and says that there are hidden numbers, there are numbers that do not appear in the statistics. It's pathetic, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Until you give the example of a famous lady, daughter of an April hero, it is true, of Captain Salgueiro Maia, forgetting, not remembering or even knowing, who left the country—it is true, yes, sir—but running away from the PS, fleeing from the Socrates government, and we have nothing to do with it. [[PS protests.]] But, after all this, they can produce a 100-page document, which they say is a document for the next decade, for the next 10 years, in which they trace the mirror scenarios on which they were asked to base, support and submit to the UTAO scrutiny, so that they will be voted on, and, you will soon say "no, sir, even we seem to be government, we have no basis".
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u138	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u139	I shall conclude, Madam President. I will conclude by saying the following: this document and all these scenarios that you are drawing are based on a single fact. It is that everything you say there is based on the governance now done, on the numbers of this government, on the decline of unemployment, on the control of the deficit, on the growth of the economy, on the growth of productivity. So the question that I leave here to the Socialist Party and to which someone should answer, for the Portuguese to know, is the following: did the Socialist Party, during these four years, lie to the Portuguese, or not? Is it said that everything this government did was wrong and destroyed the country, how does it establish a 100-page document, a governance programme, in a scenario supported by the positive developments and positive governance of this government for four years? After all, what is the truth of the Socialist Party? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister continues not to give this House the data proving that 70 % of the internships end in a contract without end.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u142	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u143	Therefore, once again, we are obliged to conclude that these are forged numbers and that it is pure propaganda from the government, which does nothing to combat unemployment and precariousness. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Minister, in fact, the mark of this government is that of unemployment, that of low wages, that of rising hours and decreasing wages, that of generalizing precariousness and unpaid work, is that of more than 250 000 young people who disappear from unemployment statistics not because they have found jobs with rights but because they are employed in vocational training and internships, that of more than 80 000 unemployed workers who, at zero cost, guarantee the functioning of public services in this country. This is truly the mark of this government: that of impoverishment and exploitation. That is why, since 2011, as long as this government has taken possession, salaries in the Public Administration have fallen 26 % and wages in the private sector have fallen 13 %. This is the mark of this government, the mark of the backwardness and devaluation of work. That is why we say that this government does not want to fight unemployment. This government wants to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. Mr President, for the CFP, the alternative to unemployment is not the stage, the alternative to unemployment is not the precarious; the alternative to unemployment is employment with rights, it is national production, it is the development of the country. It is exactly the opposite of what this government is doing. [[PCP applause.]] That is why we will always continue to defend solutions contrary to this. A way of valuing work is necessary and urgent, that each permanent job corresponds to an effective link of work, that is impossible and that the use of false green receipts, Employment and Integration Contracts, to professional internships, to term contracts, is prohibited when it is effectively a permanent job. It is urgent, Mr Minister, that the Act have inspectors in accordance with the ILO ratios. Portugal does not meet the ILO ratios.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u144	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u145	There are 150 job inspectors missing, Mr Minister knows this and he is well aware of the abusers of the law, he is in good company with the savagery that lives today in the workplace, blackmail, pressure, illegality on the workers. For this reason, the government and the patronage are responsible for this climate of violation of the fundamental rights of workers. Mr Minister, the workers do not accept and the country does not have more unemployment and more precariousness. Another policy is urgently needed. That is why, Mr Minister, against all that the Government is doing to the Country, of retrogression, of exploitation, of civilizational retrogression tomorrow, on the day the 125 years of 1 are celebrated. that of May and the struggle for 8 hours of work, the workers will go out on the street with immense confidence and hope that this country deserves better and needs another government and another policy. There is sufficient strength to defeat this government and this policy. The workers and the people will do so. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u146	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : Official numbers may not please the government but it is not worth always hammering the official numbers that exist. Is the integration of trainees 70 %? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, IEFP is given that it is 30 % the percentage of trainees who are hired by companies. I will send you this data, which is official data, Minister. Keep strict with Parliament, don't leave the numbers! Mr Prime Minister also said that in Portugal labour costs are very high. Mr Minister, do you not know Eurostat? Do you not know the data that exist and show that in Portugal the cost of work is less than half the cost of work in the European Union, which is almost half the cost of work in Spain? And do you want to continue to lower the cost of work in Portugal? Oh, my God! We already have salaries in the order of 500 €, on average, Minister! I will ask the Bureau to send Mr. Minister this information. He also spoke about the Reativar program. This programme, Minister, is a disgrace. It is a six-month programme, even to the elections, in which people will have low wages and a precarious condition and which, in fact, Mr Minister, smells the instrumentalization of people in this period until the elections. Mr. Minister said nothing about wages but we are in the country of the greatest wage inequalities. We have 10% of poor workers, 40% of part-time workers live in poverty. And these inequalities, Minister, offend us, offend democracy. Poverty violates human rights. And that there are workers, in Portugal, in a situation of poverty, should motivate our action. on the large surfaces, which, tomorrow, intend to do 1. May the day of the humiliation of the worker, Jerome Martins or Sonae, are at the top of inequalities. They are the two companies in which wage disparities are greater: a worker in the Pingo Doce box needs to work 108 years to earn the same as the administrator earns in a year. And in Sonae it's the same, a worker in the Continent's box needs to work 100 years to earn the same thing as the company administrator earns. And this, Minister, is the policy of low wages and precariousness. And if there's any reason to celebrate 1. May is precisely because there is still resistance, there are still those who walk head-on and mobilize themselves. Efacec workers have made strikes and won an agreement that gives them 50 € increase. The weaknesses that have been organised for a citizens' legislative initiative are fighting for this law that fights the false green receipts and that is the product of their mobilization. Now, as 100 years ago or 125 years ago, this head is raised and this force of solidarity against the abuse of 1. May one day is so important. If all the workers, the precarious and the unemployed, all together, beat their feet, surely the world trembles and the government too. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u148	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u149	Mr President, Minister, you say that this government has done the necessary job reform. Mr Minister, the fight against unemployment cannot be done by means of employers so that they can fire more easily and, above all, cheaper. The fight against unemployment cannot be made with redundancies in the public sector, as the Government continues to do. The fight against unemployment promotes economic growth and the development of the country, it is true, but also with a job-quality bet, with fair wages and with stability and security. And that's not what the government is doing. The government is promoting job insecurity, promoting duty-free work and promoting low-wage policy. Since 2011, from the time that this Government took over, to date, wages in the public sector have fallen 26 % and in the private sector have fallen 13 %. The average wage in Portugal today is only 56, 4 % of the European Union average and only 51, 2 % of the euro area average. Therefore, the results of government policies on employment are there: unemployment, precariousness, duty-free work, low wages and even wage-free work. The active employment measures presented by this Government are only « to see ». in the program Estimulo al Emplo, what we have are people licensed to earn 505 €, with state support. It is therefore the State that promotes and finances precariousness. Reativar is a six-month programme, more to think about the electoral campaign period that approaches itself than in unemployment, but is based on low wages and precariousness. Then we have the program VEM (Emigrant Entrepreneurship Valorization ) that aims to support 40 to 50 Portuguese projects that are abroad and want to return to Portugal with ideas and business. Mr Minister, in view of the 400 000 Portuguese who, following the advice of the Government, have been forced to leave the country and seek work abroad, because this government does not guarantee them work here, does the government now want to bring back 50? Oh, my God! Don't you think this little show is a joke? Or is this really to take it seriously? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u150	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against unemployment is creating conditions to develop employment, promoting measures to support recruitment, and creating jobs. That is what the government has done and that is the way it intends to pursue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u152	It's the internships!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u153	... of course also developing a set of active employment policies oriented towards unemployed people, including professional internships, so that young people who have made their qualification course can have first contact with the world of work and, as a result, can enter into active life. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I should like to inform you. Members who, on exactly 29 January, have entered the Office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic the answer to the request made by the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party regarding the employability of professional internships, as well as other answers in the same sense, which clearly clarify that the evaluation made by the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training is that, after a certain time, six months after people have completed their professional stages - and this is not a matter of sampling or investigation, it is through an evaluation made on the basis of social security records - these young people still remain in the social security system. This means that there is effective employability and that the public resources used to promote this measure are well-used resources because they help solve the problem of young people. But I would like to say that, indeed, we are talking here about more and better employment. The year 2013 was a year of job creation, the year 2014 was a year of economic growth and, when we looked at these 27 months, for these seven quarters, what we assessed is that the Portuguese population employed has increased by 137 000 people and unemployment has decreased by 229 000 people, and we found that in full time this number has increased by 185 000 people, while in part time it has decreased by about 45 000. Therefore, this dissembles and contradicts all the discourse about precariousness and, in some way, part of what has been said here today. When we look at the workers on behalf of others, we find that at the level of this aggregate, the population employed, based on a working relationship on behalf of others and according to INE data, has increased by 254 000 people in this period. Also in this period, the number of those who have a permanent employment relationship is 183 000, while those who have a term contract relationship is 73 000. This goes well once again about the increase in the stability of labour relations and also contradicts, once again, the the thesis of the precariousness which today was intended to be appreciated. On this subject, and also on the ACT, I would like to say the following: The Government has a firm intention to monitor what is happening on the labour market and to provide ACT with the means and resources for the full fulfilment of its mission. That is precisely why the action of the ACT was focused on the private area and, therefore, in some way, having remained without the obligation to carry out its mission in the field of conditions and public employment, this meant a strategic orientation of resources. But when we look at some data, and allow me to present this data to you, we find that, for example, in relation to the inspection actions that the ACT developed based on the type of bonding of workers in 2014 in relation to temporary employment contracts, the ACT covered about 5100 people, when in 2013 it had done so before 4800, and in relation to hidden employment contracts covered about 1500 employment contracts, when in 2012 it had covered 390. In relation to undeclared employment contracts for self-employed persons, in relation to part-time employment contracts, in relation to foreign employment contracts or in relation to employment contracts for minors, it could do exactly the same exercise as I just did. Naturally, I am grateful for the questions put by Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares, Ms Catarina Marcelino and Mrs Rita Rato and Mrs. Mr. Artur Rêgo, José Soeiro and José Luís Ferreira. In this respect, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, let me refer to the following: on Employment and Integration Contracts, it has already been answered to Parliament, exactly what the situation is. Thus, say-CL -I will -it shows that in September 2009 there were some 49 000 Employment-Inclusion contracts ; in 2010 there were 44 000 ; in 2011 there were 42 000 ; in 2012 there were also 42 000 ; in 2013 there were 50 000 ; in 2014 there were 56 000 contracts. But in order to answer the question you raised, let me tell you that in central administration in 2009 there were 12,557 contracts; in 2010 there were 10 607 and 9629 contracts in 2014. These data consist of replies already provided to the Assembly of the Republic. But because there can be no two pesos and two measures and the PS cannot look at the central administration in a way different from what you look at the local administration, let me also tell you the following, helping me from an evaluation of the local authorities that use the CIS (Employment-Inclusion Agreement ) : in the top 30 of these municipalities, in the period of coverage from January to September, the Municipality of Vila Franca de Xira had 564 CEI ; the Municipality of Gondomar had 405 ; the Municipality of Elvas had 329 ; the City Hall of Sintra had 295 ; finally, the Municipality of Évora had 270. Therefore, this was the use of this measure, in the sense that these people who are unemployed, and long unemployed, may have mechanisms to somehow raise their self-esteem and get closer to the labour market. With regard to the issues of precariousness, which have been very ventilated here today, let me say the following: still today, the accounts of the City Council of Lisbon showed an increase in the value spent with tasks and advances of 28 %, increasing from 5.7 million to 7.3 million. [[PCP and BE protests.]] We cannot have two weights and two measures and what the government has been looking for is actually creating conditions for more jobs in the country, better jobs and fewer Portuguese unemployed. That is what we want to develop, possibly more intensively. Some of the measures have been mentioned. The Reativar programme is exactly a step towards supporting the long-term unemployed, those who have been away from the labour market for a long time, in order to update their skills, to include in the development of a path of integration into the labour market. It is therefore this perspective that the Government intends to build, developing a set of measures and incentives to promote the creation of jobs, possibly permanent jobs. When we look at the statistics that the INE has published, we see exactly that, that is, it is not just less unemployment and more employment, it is also better employment, because the links that have increased are of a permanent nature. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u154	Mr. João Oliveira pointed out to the Bureau that he intended to use the floor for an interpellation. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u155	Madam President, it is only to request the distribution of a document. The Secretary of State has just referred to an answer to the CFP in November and we have a question already from January this year, more precisely from 30 January, which is to be answered so far. It has already exceeded three times the regimental deadline for the response. So I wanted this question to be distributed to the government to see if, once and for all, we could have access to the data. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work at the closing stage. As everyone knows, at the closing stage there are two interventions, the first of which is the Government and the second and last of the proposed initiative party, in this case the PS. Thus, the Government has the floor for the closing of the debate, the Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a timely debate on the subject. To talk about employment, job creation, we can effectively have policies that effectively support economic but also from the social point of view, the repair of what is the greatest social fracture of Portuguese society, is always a timely issue. The biggest difficulty this government has encountered was unemployment, whether it has left us, or the one that had to be created because of/because of an economic crisis and a financial crisis caused by the previous government. That is why combating unemployment, combating economic policies that could generate, on a sustained basis, more employment, more quality employment, has always been our priority. in this sense, it is important to look at and realize that this dimension of unemployment, which grew systematically and consolidatedly, in Portugal, from 2002 to 2013, was reversed. It was in 2013 that it was also able to start, in a consolidated but slow manner, to watch employment recovery and unemployment reduction in Portugal. in this sense, this debate is also timely on the date, because it allows us to think more deeply about the data released yesterday even by the INE, which confirmed that this possibility and this tendency to decrease unemployment in Portugal are maintained. Of course we have to work a lot for this to continue to happen, certainly this is still our great concern, but the fact is that, looking at numbers, unemployment fell by almost 18 % at the beginning of 2013 to 17 %, fell to 16 %, fell to 15 %, fell to 14 % and is now even at 13 %. For many Portuguese, this means that they had an opportunity, but it must above all be a sign of hope, a sign of confidence, for many Portuguese who are still waiting to be able to return to the labour market, which they too may have a chance in the short term. That is why, for our part, we know that there is much to do in combating young unemployment and we need to have active employment measures, we need to use national and Community funds to help, in order to reach these people. But another dimension is also needed, it is necessary to give specific protection to the long-term unemployed, for which there were no specific answers, there were no answers that could effectively help them to be integrated into the labour context, and that is what we can do now, with the Reativa programme, to which we allocate EUR 43 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u159	But in addition to the size of employment, there is another dimension that always keeps us very careful, that of social protection, that of social systems. This is the Government that has done everything to ensure the sustainability of social security, not only through reforms that guarantee its current sustainability but also its future sustainability, but also through extraordinary transfers from the State budget to ensure that it is sustainable. I recall here, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, that from 2012 to 2015 this extraordinary transfer has already amounted to EUR 4500 million, exactly to ensure the payment of pensions and social benefits. The big question to which the PS has not yet answered, but to which it will have to answer until the end of the debate, is how, in a system where pensions are financed by the current contributions, where pensions are paid through the receipt of contributions, it is possible to withdraw EUR 14 billion and continue to ensure social protection and the payment of pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u161	This is a serious question and it is a question that, legitimately, must concern the Portuguese, it is a question that has to be asked because it was a debate that the PS chose to put on the table and it was wrong for the PS to put the debate on the table and then not to give an answer here on its own. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u162	For the last intervention in the debate, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : at the end of this debate, there are two conclusions we can draw. The first is that the Government and the majority have not been able to counter at any time the reality of increasing unemployment and precariousness that the PS wanted to bring to this debate on the eve of 1. May this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second conclusion, Minister, is that the majority have placed themselves in this debate in the role of opposition to the opposition. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u164	The Minister of Solidarity and Employment of this Government seemed more like the Minister of the shadow of solidarity and the use of the opposition, of another government than this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And almost, Mr Minister, almost that the Government and the majority have asked the PS more questions about the document that we have tabled than the questions that the PS has asked the Government, and the Government is here to answer, and that is what you have to do, whether you want or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u165	It's not appropriate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u166	But the PS asked five questions here, in particular, a question to find out which numbers of employment and unemployment. Mr Minister, the biggest social fracture that the Government recognizes that it created and exists in Portugal, as Mr Minister has just said, was not the social fracture that Mr Minister said he found in 2011 because today unemployment figures are greater than they were in 2011. During this Parliament, unemployment exceeded 16 % and there were months in which it exceeded 17 %! [[And why? Why?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u167	If there is the social fracture that Mr Minister acknowledges, he must recognise that it is also for this government that it is due to an increase in unemployment as it has never occurred in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mr Minister, I should like to respond in this debate — you are still Minister, I remind you! — because today in 2015, there are fewer than 315 000 jobs than Mr. Minister and his Government have provided in 2011 in the Budget Strategy Paper. What have you missed, Minister? What's wrong? Oh, my God! The Minister has not been able to deny this nor to answer these questions for a simple reason: these numbers are not false, they are reality, and the reality proves that the Minister has failed, the reality proves that the government has failed, the reality that its policy has failed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Minister, we also asked what level of income workers have today in Portugal. Here too, your choice, the choice of your Government, was to make all the budgetary adjustment on the basis of wage devaluation, on the basis of the devaluation of income, pensions and wages, and the Country — yes, Minister! — impoverished, the workers — yes, Minister! — impoverished. Today there are more poor workers in Portugal. There are workers whose income is not enough to get out of the poverty line and, yes, Minister, this is the responsibility of their government and their responsibility. We also asked what is the situation of collective bargaining. Zero! Mr. Minister didn't say anything! The number of conventions fell one third in comparison with 2011 and as for the number of workers covered — listen well, Minister and Secretary of State — in 2011 there were 1, 3 million workers and today 250 000 workers. This is your responsibility, Minister, this is your inheritance, this is your contribution to the greatest social fracture in which there is memory, from a long time ago to this part. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also asked about conditions and the right to work. Here, Mr Minister, engineers and architects with 500-euro job offers are the mirror of their governance, their inheritance and their outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u168	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u169	And what has the government done — this is the last question — to defend decent work, Minister? Yes, today we need again to defend the decent work, and on this neither a word nor a word. In fact, it's not part of the government's lexicon! And this, Minister, is also a result of your governance, is the failure of your governance. in this debate, the majority have placed themselves in the role of opposition to the opposition, as I have already said. As for the questions to the PS, I inform the Minister and the Members. Members of the majority who the PS has already sent the replies to Dr. Marco António Costa, who today, when listening to this debate, learned that there are many PSD Members, but also the CDS, who would like to take their place, the place of Mr. Marco António Costa. [[PS laughter.]] But, finally, I think now that the coalition has been announced, Dr. Marco António Costa will share the answers either with the PSD or with the CDS. It's a matter of reading. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u170	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u171	I will finish, Madam President. This PS document, which raises so many doubts about the government, which is already opposed, proves one thing: there is an alternative, there is no inevitability in politics, there is an alternative to this government's policy within the European Union and within the euro area. The differences were clearer than ever and I give this example only: this government, in the outlook until 2019, agrees to have a budget surplus in 2019 with an unemployment of 8 % ; for the PS, this is not only acceptable as it will not happen because there is an alternative. This alternative is PS and we're going to build it with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u172	I thank the members of the Government and the Members who spoke in the debate which has now been concluded. My compliments to the members of the government who go out and to those who are now entering. We are going to enter the second item on the agenda, which is the general debate on Bill No 316 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new special arrangements applicable to entities licensed in the Madeira Free Zone from 1 January 2015. To open the debate and present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Autonomous Region of Madeira presents structural constraints of a geographical, economic, social nature, whose conjugation and intensity affect its development. In addition to the small size, insularity, relief and adverse climate, the Autonomous Region of Madeira also presents, among other conditions, economic dependence on a small number of products, a significant absence of natural resources, high costs of production factors, due in particular to significant transport costs and the dependence on imports of raw materials. All these constraints of the Region, recognised in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union itself, justify a State aid scheme in order to compensate for the additional costs or constraints arising from the disadvantages already stated, thus contributing to the development of the Region. The creation of the Madeira Free Zone regime, even in the 1980s, and the successive regimes in force there, aimed to mitigate structural constraints affecting the Autonomous Region of Madeira, as well as to promote and capture new investments, representing instruments relevant to the diversification and internationalisation of the regional economy, to increase regional tax revenues and to increase qualified employment in the region. The regime which the Government presents to Parliament today records the necessary adjustments to its compliance with the new European State aid rules, while maintaining some characteristics of the previous schemes. This scheme, applicable to entities residing in the Madeira Free Zone between 2015 and 2020, makes the limits on the share of the profits of the undertakings to which the reduced rate of the actual number of jobs maintained each year can be applied. If this job creation requirement is not met, the profits of companies shall be subject to the normal rate of normal IRC applicable in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which is the same as in the continent. On the other hand, in compliance with European State aid rules, new limits are introduced to the maximum amount of benefit each company can use annually, in particular on the basis of turnover. This bill also aims to ensure greater effectiveness in monitoring the regime and to ensure more rigorous control of the verification of the assumptions necessary for the application of the benefits envisaged therein and the fulfilment of the obligations imposed on companies in the light of the previous regime. Finally, a major change in the scheme provides for the complete exclusion of tax incentives from tax incentives to entities based in tax havens, particularly in the case of shareholders or service providers. I would like to make it very clear that today's regime has been subject to analysis and validation by the European Commission, and that the structure of the limits imposed on the regime has been accepted by the Commission itself in the light of Community rules, so it is absolutely in line with European legislation. The limits and conditions to which these schemes are subject are, in fact, similar, but strengthened, to those applicable to outermost regions of other European jurisdictions also subject to scrutiny by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that today, as in the past, it is important to provide Madeira with the instruments necessary for its economic development and for the people of Madeira. Thank you very much for your attention. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u174	You have the floor to speak, Mr Hugo Velosa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u175	Mr. President, Mr.a and Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the presentation that Mr. Secretary of State has just made of the diploma we are discussing today, which was a correct and objective technical presentation. This is very important because the House has heard about it. So from here on, we can hardly accept that there are interventions or a political analysis of what is here. in reality, the free zone of Madeira, there is no doubt today, especially by the 2014 issues, was extremely beneficial for the region and the country. It's in 12. the place in foreign direct investment ( IDE ) in Portugal, according to data from the Banco de Portugal, and raised about 120 million tax revenue for the coffers of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which is the same as the country. We have no doubt that the free zone is a fundamental instrument for the Autonomous Region of Madeira and Portugal and therefore I would like to congratulate the Government on the speedy way in which we are now entering this fourth regime, which is fundamental for greater productivity and attractiveness of the free zone. We therefore want to effectively congratulate the Government and also to note — I know this — the personal commitment of the Prime Minister to unlock this dossier in the European Commission. I signed up to intervene without knowing whether the PS would or would not speak before me, but did not speak and do not know what the PS position is. But I'm afraid the PS position is the one you've always had. Since 1980, when the free zone was created, the PS never wanted to participate, never wanted to be on the side of reason and what is good for the Madeirans and for the Portuguese. There will be political reasons for this, but one thing is certain: in Madeira no one understands that the PS has always been against an instrument that everyone agrees is beneficial to the population of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u176	in history, it has been written about this, but what I will be able to say, because I have not heard the intervention of the PS, is that until the vote they will weigh well, because they must be in favour of this instrument which is beneficial to the Madeirans and the Portuguese who reside in Madeira. I conclude by saying that there is no doubt that this instrument is very important, in order to be more attractive, more competitive in those who are the services provided in relation to other free zones, by this tax regime that is created. And time will say we're right. I therefore want to end by congratulating the Government on how it has managed to solve this problem of the fourth tax regime in the Madeira Free Zone. [[PSD and PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u177	You have the floor to speak for the CDS-PP, Mr Rui Barreto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your very correct description of your intervention with regard to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. It was precisely the outermost regions and the island constraints which enabled the European Commission to assign a special status and a low tax system in the past of 1987. Today, the introduction and adaptation to Portuguese law is discussed in an agreement concluded between the Portuguese Government and the European Commission. , a happy deal. That is why I and the CDS-PP bench are pleased that the government has concluded hard and difficult negotiations with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u180	I must say that in December 2011 he notified the European Commission to initiate a whole process that was well conducted, if it were not the PS Government at the moment to have vetoed the drawer, allowing the entire process to be restarted. This process led to unemployment, lack of credibility, loss of businesses, loss of employment, loss of revenue in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, and it also led to the making of the Adjustment Plan in a more harsh way than the one that could be if the international business regime were working in the way it should work. But the past is past and we keep going. And I hope that the Socialist Party has learned from the mistakes it has made, and I hope that today, by recovering from past mistakes, it can also announce a positive vote on this bill. Much work has been done by the government. It is therefore right at this time not only to acknowledge the work of the Government and to greet the Prime Minister, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister and, in particular, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, but also regional entities, the development society of Madeira, the association of professionals of the International Business Centre, business professionals and all those who believed when some were torpedoing the National Business Centre. They all believed that this Centre and competitiveness could reach a good port and that is what, fortunately, we did. This is therefore due to the coordinated work of many and therefore I congratulate everyone on this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u181	Mr Jacinto Serrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the governments, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unquestionable that the International Centre for Madeira Affairs is a crucial instrument for the development process of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and for the cohesion of this part of Portuguese territory. Promoting the cohesion of the region is promoting the cohesion of the country, promoting the cohesion of Europe. It should be noted that, under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Member States have the right to « create free zones in certain parts of the Community customs territory and authorise the creation of free warehouses », to determine « the geographical limits of each zone », even though customs authorities may « promote certain prohibitions or restrictions on activities ». Therefore, on the basis of the legal requirements, Member States may justify the establishment, organisation and operation of free zones in their territories. According to official data made available by the European Union, there are about 74 sites in Community soil of this kind spread by the territories of 25 Member States, as referred to in the technical note annexed to this proposal for a law. This is an issue which is not worth squambling. It is not worth putting your head on the sand in front of this reality in the European area, it is a question that can and should be deregionalised and the government should, without prejudice, view the Free Zone of Madeira as an instrument of competitiveness of the country in Europe. With regard to this proposal for a law, there is still much to be explained, particularly with regard to the government's titubious attitude towards this process. The subsequent delays in the renegotiation process for new licences which have not been fully justified to date by the Government of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, the regional government itself, and the Legislative Assembly of Madeira, and even before the insistence of three requests which I myself have made under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that response has not yet arrived. These are delays which are the full responsibility of the Government and not the European Commission, as the President of the Madeira Development Society says, which says that the entry into force of the new regime for the National Business Centre and the registration of new companies depended solely on the publication of a legal diploma, as is happening at this time. With regard to the majority PSD / CDS, it is noted that the Government and its leaders, during four years of abundant speeches and promises that they were next to the International Business Centre, generated a set of expectations with the regional government and economic agents in the region that faded with this bill. It is true to say « a lot of cunts, little grape». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u183	They have promised a more competitive regime and have a more limited and less competitive regime. They maintain the same constraints, special payments on account, the same limitations of the tax benefits to be granted through the ceilings and still add three new tax limitations. Morals of history, Mr. President, Mrs. Members : We have waited for four years with much expectation about the promises and speeches of the majority and this regime is worse than the previous one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u184	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Tax havens and offshore centres, in addition to promoting tax fraud, money laundering and financial crime, reduce the autonomy of state tax policies by pressuring tax cuts and deregulation. After the outbreak of the 2008 financial crisis, many voices rose demanding the extinction of tax havens. However, despite the good intentions proclaimed at the time, the interests of the great capital eventually prevailed and everything continued in it. For the institutions of the European Union and governments, including the Portuguese Government, full freedom of action of capital is the supreme value to be guarded. Recognizing that Portugal cannot put an end to tax havens and offshore centres located beyond its borders, it understands the PCP that we can and should start by setting up the house, extinguishing the offshore of Madeira. This decision would place Portugal in a more favourable position to require the extinction of all tax havens and offshore centres at international level. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, contrary to what their defenders say, the Free Zone of Madeira does not benefit the regional economy or the people of Madeira; it only benefits a national and foreign elite, which uses it to escape tax payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u186	Where have I heard this?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u187	When the government says that the Free Zone of Madeira is responsible for creating many jobs and collecting an important tax revenue, what it is doing is a bluff that does not correspond to reality. The available statistical data fully refute the government's statements. The data relating to 2009 — the last year in which these statistics were made available by the Tax Authority — show that, of the 6678 companies registered there, 91 % did not have any worker; the average number of workers per company did not reach one ; of the 1679 companies with declared profits, only 3 % liquidated IRC; the value of the liquidated IRC — EUR 6 million — represented only 0, 03 % of the reported revenues. That is, little jobs, little tax revenue. On the other hand, Madeira's GDP was artificially inflationed by licensed companies in the Free Zone, companies that do not create any jobs or have physical facilities, only available in a mailbox. This artificial pollution of regional GDP has adversely affected Madeira in financial transfers, particularly from Community funds. Between 2007 and 2013, Madeira lost around EUR 500 million of QREN because it no longer belonged to Objective 1 regions. The CFP believes that there is no justification for maintaining the Madeira Free Zone, nor for reasons of an economic nature, nor for reasons of a social nature. The perpetuation of this Free Zone serves only the interests of some, who use it to escape payment of due taxes. what Madeira needs, as well as the Azores and the regions of the country, is a special system of taxation for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises — and only those — such as the one proposed by the CFP last November, within the framework of an alternative fiscal policy. These are measures such as this and not the perpetuation of the Free Zone that would contribute to the economic and social development of Madeira and to the elevation of the living conditions of the people of Madeira. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u188	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Madeira's offshore has been the opposite of what has been promised to the Madeiran people. It was said that it would create jobs and that this could dynamize the economy, but we saw exactly the opposite. Today, in statistics, Madeira is one of the richest regions in the country with GDP inflationed by those companies that have tax offices there, but do not create jobs or pay taxes there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u190	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u191	So when we look at the country and realize that poverty in Madeira should be the subject of national attention and European attention, we, wanting to have the tax haven there, have closed the door to support the Madeirans and particularly to the disqualification of poverty in the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u193	Should this region have Community support? I should. It should be framed in the outermost regions and, moreover, should have specific responses to economic development and the fight against poverty. But let us look at the statistics and what the European Commission is saying to us is that in Madeira we have one of the richest regions in the country and that therefore there is no need for support. No, Madeira's offshore created neither wealth nor employment, created poverty, and withdrew support that was essential to Madeirans. That's the hard reality. It seems that we are talking about another government when we hear the initial intervention of the Secretary of State. He told us everything that the Madeirans are facing: the problems they have to be on the outskirts, the problems of having transport costs for many of the economic goods, the problems of having a very fragile industry, the problems of having an industrial fabric with enormous weaknesses and which must be supported – he told us everything. But, Mr Secretary, I ask you: how is it that, knowing these difficulties so well, it is part of a government that imposes a huge austerity programme on that region? When they asked the Republic for help, what they had was austerity over that which was already brought by the Memorandum of the Troika. That's the hard reality. So when you come here today to tell us that tears fall to this government, to this majority because of poverty in Madeira, because of the need we have to support that region, we realize that these are crocodile tears from those who have an offshore tax haven to have another black hole in tax payments. This helps to ensure that this global tax competition is always for the fund and for the escape and for tax fraud. But these are also the crocodile tears of those who caused more austerity in that people, who should be freed from it and not subject to the draconian policies of this government. This is not a good measure, this is a bad measure, which makes it more lasting in time that is the evil that the offshore brought to the region and therefore we cannot follow it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u194	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: I heard Mr Jacinto Serrão say the government had been a titubian.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u196	And he's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u197	Mr. Deputy, titubian was the PS! When the process was very well conducted and in its final phase in 2010 with a view to resolving the fourth regime, do you know what the Secretary of State of the Socialist Party Sergio Vasques did at the time? You did a drawer veto, Mr. Deputies. He delayed the entire process. The government resumed in December 2011 difficult negotiations, there was a lot of perseverance, a lot of exchange of information, a lot of coordination, but fortunately we managed, and that is why Mr Jacinto Serra is bothering you. I must tell the honourable Member that it is not worth sending more demands to the Government, because the matter is concluded, it is settled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u198	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u199	I only hope one thing: I look forward to a positive vote by the Socialist Party. That was good for you. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u200	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Jacinto Serrão, the delay in the implementation and implementation of this regime has much to do with the position of Portugal weakened before the Community institutions after the Socialist Party had abandoned the negotiation of the third regime in Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u202	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u203	If that had not been the case, this regime would most likely have come into force longer ago, Mr. That is why we need to have a clear understanding of what has actually happened. I mean to tell the gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and the CFP that the Madeira Free Zone meets all the requirements imposed by the European Treaties and by European and Community legislation. [[PCP and BE protests.]] We are talking about a state aid scheme that goes through the establishment of European rules, European treaties and Community legislation. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that, from a technical point of view, it is absolutely wrong to equate Madeira with a fiscal paradise. Madeira is neither qualified nor regarded as a tax haven by any OECD country, by any European Union country. Because of this, the Autonomous Region of Madeira, the Free Zone of Madeira, should be considered, because that is how it should be technically considered, a State aid scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u204	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u205	I conclude, Mr President, by saying only the following because it is also important: the Autonomous Region of Madeira today benefits about EUR 130 million from the tax revenue coming directly from the free zone of Madeira. But it is also important to realize that this scheme introduces two fundamental changes: firstly, the application of the reduced rate of IRC is dependent on the maintenance and creation of jobs, which means that companies that do not maintain or create jobs will pay the normal rate of IRC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u206	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u207	... as all other companies pay; secondly, for the first time, they are excluded from the tax incentives made in the Free Zone of Madeira — and, indeed, in their own name — all entities based in tax havens, which means that no company based in the Free Zone of Madeira may, for example, have as shareholder or partner a company based in a tax haven.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u208	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u209	You must conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u210	This represents a very significant increase in equity and social justice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u211	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the general debate on the proposal for a law No 316 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) to be voted on from 18 hours in the voting period. We move on to the third point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1450/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the prohibition of the use of glyphosate ( The Greens) and 1408 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of glyphosate ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Glyphosate is the most used pesticide in Portugal, having been sold only in 2012, more than 1400 t and witnessing an increasing trend in its use in recent years. It happens that the International Agency for Research on Cancer, of the World Health Organization, has classified glyphosate as a probable carcinogenic to humans—this is the classification that glyphosate has at the moment. Thus, the risk to public health arising from glyphosate or exposure to glyphosate is declared, establishing a relationship between this herbicide and cancer. This relationship is, of course, not of light mind, but on the basis of the existence and recognition of credible and sufficient scientific evidence. Curiously, or not, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the European Union, in Portugal, each year some 1700 new cases of the lymphoma in question arise, with a mortality rate higher than the European Union average. Glyphosate is closely related to genetically modified organisms (GMOs), as they are resistant to the herbicide concerned. Not by chance, Monsanto commercializes either glyphosate (under the Roundup trade mark) or the transgenic varieties. These, in addition to others, are one of the major risks associated with GMOs — more than 80 % of the transgenic plants in the world have been modified, precisely in order to resist the application of herbicide. In addition, glyphosate is widely used in agriculture in general, can be found for sale on large areas open to the public, for more household uses, and is widely used in cleaning public roads and also in water lines for infestants control. As soon as this classification of glyphosate was made public, the Greens put in the Assembly of the Republic the question of what the Government would think to do before such evidence of threat to public health and the environment. Mr Prime Minister answered in the next debate, saying that strangely there was no evidence that there was contamination, that the probable risk that such contamination could happen was not fully evidenced and that an investigation on the subject would be initiated. In view of this response, it is important to mention the evidence that there is contamination of glyphosate and this evidence stems from the very existence of legislation that imposes limits on food presence, although there have been many aspects where its presence is not even analyzed, as in water. This, to stop talking about spraying in the open sky and in large quantities. From the assumption that there may be no contamination, it is therefore at least strange. In addition, the research announced by Mr. Prime Minister is done by the World Health Organization. in this sense, Mr. President, The Greens present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution so that they quickly take steps to ban glyphosate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u213	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today, by banning the use of glyphosate, is based on the urgent need to protect public health. Several scientific studies are done, such as the evaluation of the World Health Organization: glyphosate is cancer! Earlier, several non-governmental organisations in Europe had submitted in court a request to compel industry to disseminate its studies and data on this chemical compound so that it could be assessed by independent scientists. The request has not yet been made. But the World Health Organization has no doubt about classifying glyphosate as cancer. It is the herbicide most commonly used on the planet and also in our country. It is free of charge and easy to access in Portugal. In addition, it is enough to see the new advertising campaign of Roundup Gel, which sponsors films on Portuguese television. It is a pesticide designated for domestic use within everybody's reach! This herbicide is related to genetically modified organisms, since several GMOs, particularly Monsanto, are designed to be resistant to glyphosate, specifically to Roundup, also itself, to Monsanto. The Left Block now presents concrete solutions in this debate, from the outset, to prohibit the use and marketing of these pesticides. European standards allow this ban and also allow the Portuguese State to apply for its prohibition at the level of the European Union. We believe that Portugal should make use of this prerogative. We also propose training and dissemination actions that contribute to the adaptation of Portuguese agriculture to a system without glyphosate. For the right-wing banks, which speak so much in competitiveness, here is a concrete proposal: we protect farmers, protect communities, protect consumers and, at the same time, increase competitiveness, because being competitive is not taking rights, it is a step forward. Now, given the possibility of its prohibition in the future, the country has everything to gain in adapting to this new reality from now on. We also propose that, in conjunction with the authorities, stop using this chemical compound and other pesticides in public and leisure spaces. Quercus and the Transgenic Platform Outside have already launched a campaign in this direction. We hope that, in the face of the known risks and the declaration of the World Health Organization, it will be possible to take the necessary steps to protect populations, with the approval of these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u215	For an intervention, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion here today, on the issue of glyphosates, is at least poorly presented. First, it is not the World Health Organization that says that glyphosate can have carcinogenic or mutagenic consequences. This is said only by one institute, the International Agency for Cancer Research, which does not use all validated forms of research used... [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] Mr President, I may not understand any of this, but at least I have studied the matter before I come here to talk about it, something that you, perhaps, have not done. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] What should be mentioned here in this regard is that there are other institutions, particularly Community institutions, such as the European Food Safety Agency, which deny this information and are currently conducting the studies necessary to deny it. Then there is another information that is not correct here, because glyphosate is not a substance used only in Portugal, generally, is simply the most widely used herbicide worldwide. On the other hand, there is still no knowledge of any substitute for this chemical which can be used for farmers in their production. Finally, on the part of the Portuguese State and the European Union, there is a perfect harmony with regard to less aggressive products for the environment and public health which are eligible for use in agriculture. This is true in Portugal, since the Act No 26 / 2013, which establishes the national action plan for the sustainable use of plant protection products, where, among other things, training actions are planned for both the applicators and farmers and technicians, both for the staff of the authorities and the police authorities, where this information has been implemented. Moreover, in relation to public spaces, the Law itself already states that « in urban and leisure areas, plant protection products should be used only when there are no other viable alternatives, including means of mechanical and biological combat».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u217	So, it's okay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u218	In other words, what the Left Block proposes in particular is something which is already enshrined in the Law, so it is necessary, only and only, to comply with the legislation in force. In view of what I said on the part of the CDS, we shall vote against the two draft resolutions under discussion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u219	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate in this Parliament on the possibility of banning glyphosate in Portugal, on the basis of an alert issued by an international organization, will, of course, refer us to a reflection and reveals to us a reality that is worth not devaluation. And this reality is the strongest dependence on Portuguese agriculture on this active substance. It is true that glyphosate is the most used herbicide worldwide! It is true that glyphosate is the most used herbicide in Europe! But it is also true that Portugal is at the top of the countries that most use glyphosate: 65% of the volume of sales of herbicides in 2014 was glyphosate. So the first major issue that we should leave in this debate is the following: if there were to be a ban on the use of glyphosate in Portugal, would Portuguese agriculture be prepared to overcome this obstacle? The answer is no. In view of this, it is worth saying the following: There is an alert and, in view of that alert, we cannot stand still. We must start by putting the Ministry of Agriculture to work with farmers to find alternatives to this extensive use of an active substance, such as glyphosate. We must invest in research and technological development in order to overcome this situation, because we have no doubt that from now on this will be a recurring issue in the political debate and that will often return to the debate in European and national terms. It must be said that it is true that there was a warning from this international organization and a first European response to a German report, which was the rapporteur of this active substance in the framework of the European evaluation, contests these results. But it is also true that there is still no publication of the final report by the European Food Safety Authority. Let us wait for that report. And it is also true — it must be said here — that Mr Prime Minister, who has been asked about the matter in this Parliament, said that in Portugal we would be making a rigorous assessment of this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u221	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u222	from our point of view, we should also wait for this assessment which is being carried out at national level. Therefore, the Socialist Party's position in this area is a prudent position, as it has always, of course, been in the defence of public health, but also of Portuguese farmers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u223	For an intervention, Mrs Maria José Moreno has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject of debate — the use of non-selective systemic herbicide as glyphosate — is serious and relevant. It is serious, because it is a compound whose effect on human health is still under consideration, after the World Health Organization (WHO) alert has emerged with a possible cancer effect. It is relevant, because it is at stake a substance that is widely used in agriculture, in the production of large-scale food and for a growing world population. Prohibiting their use at international level can lead to considerable consequences in agricultural production. It prohibits it at national level, as proposed by the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party, without waiting for the evaluation of the European Food Safety Agency — a body which inspects, controls and approves all permitted substances — would break confidence in the institution, putting into question all the other active substances used in the most diverse agricultural and industrial productions. More serious than forbidding it in Portugal would be to worsen the conditions of production of our farmers vis-à-vis the other European partners, with immediate consequences for the collapse of national production. That is to say, it is proposed that our trade balance be increased, that we invite imports and that we increase our food dependence abroad. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not true that « Portuguese agriculture will be well benefited if, in advance, it adapts to a production without this pesticide », as mentioned in the projects. Unfortunately, our planet does not have natural resources to feed its entire population, such as biological farming methods. Therefore, the proposal would harm populations who cannot choose to buy organic food, because they are more expensive. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The topic is serious and should be analysed with weight. The conclusions on the consequence of the use of glyphosate are far from peaceful, due to the multiple interests at stake, whether multinationals or environmental movements, all legitimate. When it comes to public health, we must be very careful, maintain the precautionary principle, requiring rigorous studies by independent scientific entities, a position adopted by the Portuguese Government, responsible and weighted, in collaboration with the competent European authorities. Finally, it is still curious that the Left Block today defends the principle of caution, proposing the end of the use of a herbicide, whose effects on human health are not yet proven, when last week it defended the liberalisation and socialization of cannabis use in this same Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u225	That's ridiculous! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u226	If there is certainty, it is that smoking, whether it comes from legal or illegal substances, is detrimental to individual and public health, the effects of which are precisely carcinogens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u227	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This case of glyphosate, a product marketed under the name of Roundup, is unfortunately not unique; there are other products which have been targeted for discussion and controversy, including the example of neonicotinoids applied to beekeeping. But this is a good example of how submission to the interests of large companies, multinationals to the annulment of national institutions vis-à-vis European Union entities, the destruction of State intervention capacity, is detrimental to our country. In 2012 the PCP Parliamentary Group asked the Government what was going on with the Advisory Committee on Pesticides and the Committee on Toxicological Assessment of Phytopharmaceutical Products, which had been set up in 1994. The Government said that, in the face of a new Community regime, the European Food Safety Authority is now dealing with these matters and that we can therefore cancel — and this response was assumed — the committees we have in our country, because the European Union is doing the work for us. The Portuguese Government therefore abdicated its country's structures to place these matters only under the hands of the European Union. Another issue that I think is relevant in this case is the fact that the Portuguese Government has been committed to what is called restructuring of State laboratories, because, in practice, it is a destruction or limitation of the intervention capacity of these laboratories. And without public laboratories, without independent laboratories, there is no way of making contradictions about a set of studies and materials, and this leaves in the hands of multinationals who sell these products that are they have the only word about them. Therefore, public laboratories were also the guarantor of safeguarding health and the environment in our country and are being destroyed. Finally, this case of glyphosate points out that the consequences of the action of the multinationals of agribusiness is a matter in which there is a kind of Treaty of Tordesils, for the division of the world between Monsanto and Syngenta on this matter, in which agricultural activity is very dependent on its products. Monsanto sells glyphosate in this case, but also genetically modified organisms (GMOs) that are resistant to this product.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u229	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u230	On the other hand, the glyphosate that Monsanto sells seems to have consequences for human health, but then we still have the problem that agriculture has no other solutions besides glyphosate. There is clearly a problem in this area, and this is a problem that is not easily resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u232	Clearly, it is not a problem of easy resolution, but it is a good example that the model of the agribusiness that has been installed in our country does not serve either the interests of the country or the interests of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u233	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u234	Finally, Mr President, saying that, in the past, something must be done — and there is much to be done — to free the country of this kind of situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u235	For a second intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think the arguments are presented, but unfortunately some of them are very unsustainable from our point of view. Mrs Maria José Moreno, I have to tell you one thing: the therapeutic effects of cannabis in cancer patients are well known and unquestionable worldwide! With regard to glyphosate, we can no longer say the same thing. Right, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! So let's get the arguments for this debate right there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u238	I am sorry that Mr. Abel Baptista has said that there are studies that deny the dangers of this pesticide and that he has even said that the European institutions, in the case of the European Food Safety Agency, are doing the necessary studies to deny it. Now, sir, let me worry. So the study won't be independent? Oh, my God! at least, we will wait for the result of the study, we will not anticipate its conclusion! Or do we like the other studies, commissioned by industry, multinationals and Monsanto, that refuse to give data and results to be the object of independent supervision! By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not help to make a disaster scenario, so that the proposals here present would lead almost to the end of agriculture. Agriculture is bad, but it's for other reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u239	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u240	By the way, sirs. Members, I would also like to tell you that there are alternatives and ask you to consult the Ministry of Agriculture's answer to the question posed by the Left Block, where one by one are listed the alternatives that exist in relation to the application of pesticides, saying that they should preferably use biological means of combat.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u241	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u242	I can't talk anymore because I don't have time for that, but the answers are here. The problem is that it is a very serious problem, we have to reflect on everything, but, however, everything remains the same, we let go and do not take the initiative to be, in fact, pioneers in some area, in important public health matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u243	Also for a second intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: After listening to the speeches of the various parliamentary groups, I believe that I have even the duty to tell the House that we all have an obligation to take these issues a little more seriously. Sometimes it gives me the idea that it's all treated a little bit of a bit of nerve: you get here with some jokes and you don't take the effective attitude needed for what you have to call us to do. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] There is a serious public health problem here. The Portuguese, as, moreover, other peoples in the world, can be greatly affected by the consequences of the massive use of glyphosate. And we here, in the Assembly of the Republic, cross our arms and say, "Oh, now you are studying..." or "we will wait, there are no alternatives...". That is, it is all good for people to continue to be threatened with this public health problem. Mr. Abel Baptista, I don't know if it was a lapse or if you are really convinced that it is when you say that the European Food Safety Agency is doing studies to refute this issue. Mr. Deputies, sometimes things don't seem serious! They are made out of economic interest and not to defend the interests of the people and the safeguard of public health. And what is the great economic interest here at stake? It is these monsters, these multinationals, who have grasped the GMOs and want to dominate agriculture internationally, putting farmers hostage to their products, which is what is happening with glyphosate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u245	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u246	I will finish, Mr. President. Are there any alternatives? Of course there are alternatives! Of course science and technology find alternatives! But you do not want to find alternatives to the domain of these monsters, which end, whenever you want, with agriculture and with the public health of the populations. That, Mr President, we cannot admit, so we have taken the initiative to present this draft resolution to the Assembly of the Republic. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u247	We thus conclude the debate on the third point of our agenda and move on to the following, which consists in the overall assessment of draft resolutions 1373 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of a strategy for deepening citizenship and the democratic and political participation of young people ( PSD ), 1290 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the enhancement of citizenship education in all basic and secondary education cycles ( PS ), 1447 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — due to full respect for the autonomy and non-interference in the democratic life of students and their associations, for the deburocratization of the process of legalization and the allocation of public support to youth associations and for the strengthening of the conditions of democratic participation of young people in the life of schools and the country ( PCP ) and 1449 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures to ensure the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights in schools as a fundamental dimension of the citizenship of young people ( BE ). To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our democratic experience in Portugal over the past four decades can never overshadow the continuing need for us to continue to feed our democratic values in society and, above all, here, in this House, which is the House of Democracy, we must pay particular attention to the health of the democratic regime, citizenship, the need for civic and political participation of Portuguese young people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also noted — and with some apprehension and sadness — a growing deterioration in the political participation of young Portuguese people, as well as their participation in public life in general and civic life, and to that end it is sufficient to analyze the increasing rates of abstention in the various electoral acts. To that end, it is enough to understand what is happening around us, particularly when we contact young Portuguese people in sessions such as those of the Youth Parliament, in which we often perceive the distancement and ignorance of these same young people from the political reality of our country. Mr President, there is also an old saying that "a whole village is needed to educate a child". Therefore, taking into account this proverb and fully aware that a better informed and conscious society for citizenship and for man in all its dimensions is, of course, a better society, we present this diploma with a view to creating a strategy for citizenship. We believe, moreover, that Portuguese schools will do even better their work and their role to promote values such as volunteering, freedom, tolerance, sharing, knowledge and respect for different beliefs and cultures. I believe, moreover, that schools should have even more room for social, economic and political concepts and that it is also our obligation in this House to promote such citizenship and to bring young Portuguese people closer to civic and political life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore present this diploma, which, among several points, defends the following: firstly, to ensure the availability of the training offer of the discipline of Political Science in secondary education in Portuguese schools as an option for all Portuguese students who understand this discipline as an option. Secondly, that the promotion and progressive introduction of citizenship and political science in basic education should be considered, in the light of the autonomy of schools, in those who thus understand it and who, on the other hand, are promoted here, yes, in order to support and assist teachers in progressive training appropriate to teachers who understand how to teach this discipline. Thirdly — and to conclude, Mr President — because none of this is done against the parents, against the teachers and, at least, against the schools or against the students, we want to create a national campaign to promote awareness of all the groups of schools for the need to carry out this strategy. I conclude by saying that we hope this is an initiative that encourages or helps to encourage young people to get closer to politics in a proactive way and that they recognise the need to participate in their country's public life. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u250	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no objection on the part of the benches, after the conclusion of the debate on this agenda item, we will begin the votes. To present draft resolution No 1230 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The centrality of the issue we are debating today is indisputable, i.e. the need for the valorisation of civic participation and training for citizenship is a subject which I think brings consensus in this House. Indeed, it is not enough to say « citizens». Sometimes that doesn't happen. It is necessary and fundamental to give content to citizenship and to the words that we put in our resolutions and in our bills. That is why it is a little perplexing that the majority or, indeed, that the PSD presents to us a draft resolution that aims to recover what the current government's legislative curricular reform interventions have removed from the compulsory offer of curriculum in schools. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u252	If we are discussing the need today — and it is a need — and the added value of introducing these objectives curricularly is because, unfortunately, we have retreated to a time when we have stopped offering as compulsory by schools. So, really, it is not really the same thing, we agree. What the PSD is proposing to us is something against which it is difficult to vote. Obviously, we are talking about measures that deepen and improve the current state of affairs. however, the state of things has worsened thanks to the legislative intervention of the current majority, who now, in a bit of a tangled way, tried to compose them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the Socialist Party has been consistent in this matter, and since the time when, within the framework of the Education Forum for Citizenship, the need for measures to strengthen not only the quality of curriculum supply, but, in particular, of the content that must be offered there, which we have pointed out to the need for the creation of compulsory curriculum discipline, from basic education to the end of secondary education, which allows the content to be adapted, not in a form of voluntary membership, if some students want to have political science and in the area of environmental promotion. What is needed is that there is truncated, structurally inserted into the curricula, and that allows, for example, to guide the age group, to fit the profile of the student...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u253	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u254	... things such as the knowledge experience of the institutions and values and fundamental rights embodied in the Constitution, the need for education for health and food education, education for the environment, education for financial knowledge, education on fundamental rights and on consumer rights and on the functioning of the legal order. But I also remember: this same majority and this same House were horrified when The Greens presented a project to teach the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in schools. Therefore, not even the structural, basic, consensual values that should enable us, at least, to create a solid basis for work was possible and I think it will be very difficult to teach Political Science if we pretend that the Constitution does not exist or if we try to pretend that it is not a structural element of this same teaching. Therefore, the PS recovers the elements that it has always brought here: spaces of appreciation of democracy and the functioning of the state of democratic law, the inclusion of values that allow the school to be a place of deconstruction of discrimination and that, through this curriculum inclusion, there can also be the creation of agents for the elimination of social mechanisms that build inequality. It is obvious that if we all managed to do so consensually and structure this offer in basic and secondary education, society as a whole would benefit, as well as political institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u255	To present draft resolution No 1447 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party today proposes that concerns about the conditions of participation of young people be translated into concrete solutions. We present solutions to ensure full respect for the autonomy and non-interference in the democratic life of students and student associations; to deburocratize the process of legalization and allocation of public support to youth associations; to strengthen the democratic participation of students in school management bodies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rights of young people, including the right to participate, are a conquest of the April Revolution. Article 70. the Constitution enshrines the rights of youth, but, although they exist in the law, they are often denied in the lives of young people. The practice of interference in electoral processes has been repeated and repeated for associations of elementary and secondary education students with directors to take on the marking of the electoral calendar and follow-up of the process. There are internal regulations that violate the right of students to participate and to meet at all stages of their school life, and even the status of the student makes the election for students' associations unacceptable. It was still recently prevented from holding a general meeting of students to convene an electoral process in a school, where the PSP was called upon to intervene, and on which the PCP has already questioned the Ministry of Education, which has not yet said about the violation of this fundamental right. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on youth associations, the CFP understands the main problems of excessive bureaucracy and high financial costs for the legalisation of associations. At present, the youth associations who want to apply for public support have to be registered in the National Register of Youth Associations and, to this end, have to be formally legalized, which represents an unbearable cost for many associations, which may reach 300 €. We therefore propose: full respect for the autonomy and non-interference in the democratic life of students and their associations; the guarantee of a model of democratic management and participation of public schools of non-superior education, restating the collegiate directions and ensuring the participation of students in all school management bodies; the strengthening of the participation of students in the management and governance bodies of higher education institutions; support for youth associations, taking into account the specific economic, social and cultural conditions of certain groups of young people and regions of the country; the implementation of a national plan to encourage student associations to ensure legal and institutional support to students' associations or groups of students who want to constitute associations; the deburocratization of the process of legalization and the allocation of public support to youth associations; the exemption of costs to youth associations in their legalization process and the recognition and valorization of informal groups of young people. It would be important to hear the views of the PSD and the CDS on these proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u257	To present draft resolution No 1449 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr José Moura Soeiro, of BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on sexual education is many years old. When I was a high school student this was already one of the main demands of the student movement and it was the information, freedom and pleasure that seemed to be able to enter school because of sexual education itself. It was possible to have in the curriculum a subject that we really wanted to learn. And the resistance of the school institution to the inclusion of sexual education is revealing of the difficulty that the school has to open up to the world of the lives of young people and students. Several years have passed, we discussed models, there were legislative proposals, there were very interesting projects in schools, there were committed people, but we arrived in 2015 and sexual education, although it is mandatory, still does not exist in practice as a coherent area, as a consistent project, as a practice that is beyond the point. Why? Because there are no means, because teachers and trainers are missing, because transversality was a good excuse for deresponsibility and because the logic of the school, the model of education that is currently under way has been hostile to this type of area and to this type of space. What the Left Block here proposes are three very concrete things. First of all, a curricular, non-disciplinary space is dedicated to sexual education, which guarantees the approach of these topics in school. Secondly, let the Ministry of Education ensure the training offer in this area for teachers. And thirdly, to ensure a network of contraceptive care in schools, including information and the distribution of condoms in schools. in a country like ours, these measures should already be implemented for a long time and are without fear and rejecting prejudices that we can contribute to information, objectivity, care and prevention, too, of many of these diseases, which, in fact, is the opposite of what has happened to the stapofhurd positions of those responsible for, for example, the blood services in Portugal. I also comment on the proposal that Social Democratic Youth ( JSD ) brings here today. JSD understands that Political Science must be a discipline, but in the school model that exists the practical exercise of politics, starting with the political community that is the school, has been banned from students, from the very beginning in their participation in school management. Education for citizenship is praised, but the school has not constituted an education space in citizenship. Young people are not the future citizens, young people are the ones who must now and in particular exercise citizenship and school must be the space for this exercise, particularly insurgent citizenship and citizenship which questions the school institution itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in fact, in recent years, the PSD and the CDS have expelled everything that has to do with citizenship, with critical thinking, with expressions, with what binds learning to the world of life, to the diversity of these worlds of life, to everyday life, in the old logic, which is currently the logic of the Minister of Education, of the back te the basics, of the old, old school, of learning to read, to count, to write and of living love by the nation. And that old policy, old lady, certainly no one will miss. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u259	For an intervention, Mr. Michael Seufert has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u260	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The draft resolutions we are discussing today all have the value of some concrete matters in particular. The PSD proposes a strategy for deepening citizenship and the democratic and political participation of young people. The PS recommends the enhancement of education for citizenship in all cycles of basic and secondary education. The PCP wants more support for youth association. The Left Block wants more training in schools on sexual and reproductive rights. That is to say, Mr President, each of the parties wants schools to support and develop courses of subjects which, in their view, are fundamental to the individual training of students. And I would add others, Mr President, because there would be more fundamental issues. We recognize the importance of these issues and we would join them in environmental, health-related, well-being, financial training, training for Internet security so that young people do not expose their own lives too much. After all, many other examples would surely have come up. And the point of the CDS, Mr. President, is exactly that. We cannot, on the one hand, want to give autonomy to schools to make decisions and opt for an educational project that understands the most important and, on the other hand, to have the Ministry of Education, on the other hand, saying: «No, no, what is really important is sexual education» or «What is really important is that there is a compulsory education for citizenship in basic education». Until, Mr President, the movement of disciplines organized in the way we know them seems closer to the school that existed 100 years ago than that where more progressive forms are developed, as in Finland or France, or even here in Portugal, in schools that, with a contract of autonomy — and we would like it to be — work in a way that is somewhat different from that we have, in the past, would say, from looking at a certain number of disciplines, organized in a more classical or traditional way. That is why Mr President, for us, one of the fundamental values in this debate — and we have reiterated it several times in this Parliament — is that of autonomy. That is why we chose not to present, in this debate, a draft resolution, because we do not want to be saying that it is the schools that have to choose this or that way...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u261	They haven't done anything else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u262	... to offer a more comprehensive educational project to your students. What we believe is that the Ministry and the Assembly of the Republic should facilitate, create contact points, help schools meet their goal and provide students with the support they need. That is why, Mr Soeiro, which will allow me to tell you that when schools are given more autonomy, schools are allowed to be whatever the Left Block or more insurgent or less insurgent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u263	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u264	I don't know very well what that is, but I know the following: the school, to serve the community, must have autonomy to have tools that allow it to do so. Of course, it will not be there the anarchist's manual, insurgent or something like that, Mr. Deputies, plus that, will agree, is not one of the goals that most families want for their children's educational projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u265	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u266	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In any case, we value the point where the PSD focuses on the autonomy of schools, which we consider essential, and on the initial training of teachers, another key point for the Portuguese educational process continues to have decisive gains, as it has been in the past four years. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u267	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u268	Mr President, it is only to record that on the part of the CDS, because the PSD will end the debate, nothing has been said about the sense of vote on the proposals we have discussed here. If we put forward proposals, of course, it is to know what they consider possible for approval and, in this regard, they have chosen nothing to say. And it is true that, in the wake of the abuse of autonomy, this government has failed to ensure conditions for schools. It is, if it is true that the contract of autonomy of many schools should allow a set of aspects, that does not happen. And many schools have defined a number of students by lower classes, and the Ministry of Education has never saved him.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u269	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u270	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the Member of the CDS lost a great opportunity to say whether or not he agrees with the exemption of costs to youth associations in their legalization process or with the democratic participation of students in school management bodies. from the PCP side, we understand that this silence of course means an agreement with the policy that has been followed, which, in theory, encourages participation, but in practice denies it every day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u271	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u272	Mr President, very telegraphically, I just wanted to leave two notes. One of them concerns the initiative of the Left Block on sexual education, which we follow by its relevance and the need to translate a concern which must also be framed in a logic of citizenship. Another note to make a brief comment on Mr. Michael Seufert's speech which recently referred to autonomy and the ability to be insurgent—I do not know whether insurgent, referring to the Left Block, but insurgent will be more in other blogs and perhaps in another line more specific to Mr. But the point is not so much. The point is as follows: autonomy in schools which is obviously relevant, but cannot be relevant to the point of eliminating, reducing, restricting or not even placing on the agenda such concerns as education for citizenship. That is why we disagree with the model which he opts to maintain in a strictly voluntary, optional plan of accession for what schools may eventually wish to do, subjects which are central to everyone's recognition in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u273	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u274	And that is precisely why we propose mandatory discipline, with a clear and determined curriculum, for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u275	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Autonomy cannot be an excuse for not having an opinion on this debate, Mr Michael Seufert. Anyone who listened to it would even think that the CDS-PP voted against the law of sexual education, but I do not find that this was the meaning of the CDS-PP vote. So what we are discussing here is how we ensure that something that is already determined, guaranteed by law, but that does not exist, in practice in schools, that is sexual education, is really addressed in school curricula and how we guarantee that school is a space where contraceptive care is accessible and where prevention is also done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u277	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u278	I shall finish, Mr President, with the prospect of still being able to hear the PSD's opinion on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u279	You will have this opportunity from now on, Mr President. Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I found it extremely curious and even peculiar to the intervention of the Socialist Party, which qualified with the "excellent" chavão, with what I agree, to give content to citizenship. Therefore, Mr Delgado Alves, with all due respect, I must tell you that the Socialist Party is absolutely professional in what are the good rules for the practice of advertising and political marketing. The Socialist Party which has been in this country for years has always had a great slogan, a great poster for citizenship, but has failed in a small detail or a small «poraeur», if I can say so: it has failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u281	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u282	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Socialist Party wanted a discipline without programmatic content, that all teachers and students know that it was useful for everything but for the intended purpose, without providing training and support to teachers who taught this discipline. [[PS protests.]] And our government stopped to think, redefined the strategy, created references and, yes, today, we have a new strategy defined in concrete and not just to waste money on the good and old style of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u283	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u284	Mr President, to conclude by responding to the Left Block now, saying that we are in favour of young Portuguese people grasping and having notions, in a broad sense, of risk behaviours, and indeed coming from me, it is completely unsuspecting. But we argue that, in the matter of sex education in schools, it should be included in a broader and broader strategy for citizenship, including many other concepts that are part of the overall dimension of this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u285	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1373 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PSD ), 1290 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), 1447 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1449 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( BE) we shall proceed to the vote. I remember that the last item on today's agenda will be voted on, i.e. draft resolution No 1451/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as priority for scrutiny under the European Commission’s 2015 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 199 meetings, to which 2 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Mr. Duarte Pacheco and Mr. Paulo Mota Pinto, from the PSD, which makes 201 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then start the votes. I ask the Secretary, Mr Raúl de Almeida, to read vote No 275 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of the former President of the City Hall of Aveiro José Girão Pereira ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u286	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Girão Pereira was born on 1 March 1938, in the House, Vouzela, and died in Aveiro, on 23 April 2015 at 77 years of age. Tolerant man, generous and tireless in defending his convictions in the social doctrine of the church, José Girão Pereira was a remarkable personality of Portuguese democracy, having devoted most of his life to promoting the common good, particularly the development of Aveiro, forever being his name associated with the modernization of the city, as a great dynamic pole of the central region of the country. He graduated in Law, at the University of Coimbra, and began his professional career as a teacher of basic and secondary education, during which he was also a delegate of the Public Ministry at the Aveiro Labour Court. Humanist, he entered politics by his usual party, the CDS, for which he was a candidate to the Aveiro City Hall, in the first autonomous elections of Portuguese democracy, held on December 12, 1976, which he won. He was the first President of the Chamber of Aveiro in democracy and most of the time led the destinations of the municipality by free choice of the Aveiras. He was, for 18 years, in the leadership of the Aveiro City Hall, winning successive electoral acts and being, to a large extent, the founder of modern, orderly, sustainable and supportive Aveiro. Always close to the people and the problems of the city, as an author, will be remembered with longing, as a dedicated man capable of establishing consensus, even when they seemed improbable. He was a nearby policy specialist, always focused on the needs and aspirations of citizens and local communities, with whom he established very strong ties, and was also a strong pillar of civil society, allied with different forms of civic, cultural or social association and friend of the most entrepreneurship spirits. Signed in the defence of the values of Christian democracy, in which he always believed, José Girão Pereira was appointed to the Assembly of the Republic by the CDS during the VI legislature and, soon thereafter, Euro MP, between November 1994 and January 1999, during which he assumed as a cause the defence of the interests of the country in the area of fisheries and agriculture. It has always kept an active life within the CDS, even in the most difficult times, assuming various party positions, including the party vice-presidency. In 2010, after a life dedicated to the public interest and the protection of the most unprotected, he saw his contribution to the country being recognized by the President of the Republic, who distinguished him from the Order of Merit, grade of Great Officer. A contribution that José Girão Pereira never gave up on strengthening and, in the last years of his life, already away from the exercise of political office, continued to pay attention to the affairs of his city of Aveiro, being a source of inspiration to those who were contacted and having just received formal recognition in the year 2000 with the award of the City Gold Medal. The importance it has had for Portuguese democracy and, in particular, for the development of the Aveiro region is invaluable. Man of an absolute probity, faithful to Christian democracy, heir and continuation of political tolerance in his city, his work is truly remarkable. For all they have done, the Portuguese and, in particular, the Aveirians are grateful to them and regret their disappearance. It is a strong national example. The Assembly of the Republic thanks José Girão Pereira for his perseverance in public service, becoming a reference personality of Portuguese politics, and presents to all his family and friends his heartfelt condolences, joining all those who mourn the loss of this good man». [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u287	I now ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to read vote No 276 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of former Minister Pedro Pires de Miranda ( PSD and CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Pedro Pires de Miranda died at 87 years of age. Natural Leiria, was a politician and manager of recognized merits. He performed successive functions of recognized public interest as Minister of Commerce and Tourism of the Third Constitutional Government led by Alfredo Nobre da Costa, in 1980 he was appointed as a traveling ambassador for oil affairs and later Minister of Foreign Affairs of the X Constitutional Government, led by Aníbal Cavaco Silva. Before 1979, he had served as Chairman of the European Integration Commission. Its diplomatic dimension has promoted a very relevant relationship in relations with European communities, with Portuguese-speaking African countries and the deepening of dialogue with China. in the early 1990s, he was appointed President of the Luso-American Foundation and Administrator of the East Foundation. He was thanked with the Great Crusade of the Military Order of Christ on 8 June 2009. He died in Lisbon last 20 April. To the bereaved family, the Assembly of the Republic presents the most sympathy». [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u289	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence for the death of José Girão Pereira and Pedro Pires de Miranda. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1452 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of the deadline for the operation of the X Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Camarate Tragedy ( President of the HR ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 308 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Board of Applicants into Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents and approves its Statute in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the establishment, organisation and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The proposal goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall now vote, also in general, on Bill No. 309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Advocates' Order in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the establishment, organisation and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u290	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u291	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u292	Mr President, I would like to point out to the House that with regard to the vote on Bill No 309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) on the new Statute of the Advocates' Order, I and Mr Paulo Mota Pinto will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u293	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 310 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Notaries, approved by Decree-Law No 27 / 2004 of 4 February in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and amending the Statute of the Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 26 / 2004 of 4 February. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Also in general, we will vote on Bill No. 305 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The thirty-sixth amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September implementing Directive 2011 / 93 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and establishing the criminal identification system for convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and child sexual freedom is hereby amended. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u294	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u295	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u296	Mr President, on this vote I shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u297	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Francisca Almeida, do you also ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u298	Exactly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u299	We will now vote in general on Bill No 772 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Penal Code by complying with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( Lanzarote Convention ) ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the BE and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 886 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall also vote, in general, on Bill No 319 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July adopting the Basics of Civil Protection Act. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall also vote, in general, on Bill No 316 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new special arrangements applicable to entities licensed in the Madeira Free Zone from 1 January 2015. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSDP, the CDS-PP and the Member of PS Jacinto Serrão, votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u300	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u301	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u302	Mr President, it is to announce that, on this vote, I will hand over to the Bureau a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u303	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1450/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the prohibition of the use of glyphosate ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1488/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of glyphosate ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the CFP.]] We will now vote on draft resolution No 1373 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of a strategy for deepening citizenship and the democratic and political participation of young people ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1290 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the enhancement of citizenship education in all basic and secondary education cycles ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS and the Greens, and abstentions against the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1447 / XII ( 4. a ) — due to full respect for the autonomy and non-interference in the democratic life of students and their associations, for the deburocratization of the process of legalization and the allocation of public support to youth associations and for the strengthening of the conditions of democratic participation of young people in the life of schools and the country ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1449 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures to ensure the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights in schools as a fundamental dimension of the citizenship of young people ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u304	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u305	To what effect, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u306	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Simão Ribeiro, we will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u307	Be registered. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1451/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as priority for scrutiny under the European Commission’s 2015 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the Greens and votes against BE.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1383 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Hospital de S. João da Madeira ( BE ) for which the PSD requested the vote separately from point 1. We shall therefore vote point 1 of draft resolution No 1383 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are now voting on the remaining points of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE, the Greens and the Deputies Paulo Cavalier, the PSD, and Raúl de Almeida, the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1387 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira within SNS and effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their functioning ( PCP ), for which the PSD requested the separate vote of point ( a ) and the PS requested the separate vote of point ( b ). We shall then vote on point (a) of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u308	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u309	Please, Mr. Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u310	Mr President, I would also ask us to vote separately on the remaining points, i.e. points ( b ), (c) and (d).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u311	That's how we do it. Let us then vote point (b) of draft resolution No 1387 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, BE and The Greens and Members Paulo Cavalier, the PSD, and Raúl de Almeida, the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on point (c) of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the Deputies Paulo Cavalier, the PSD, and Raúl de Almeida, the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point (d) of the draft resolution. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1291 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the opening of the classification procedure of the current « Aveiro Museum » for « National Aveiro Museum » ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1312 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the suspension of the municipalisation of museums until a reassessment of their collections for the updating of classifications as national or municipal museums ( BE ) for which the CFP requested the separate vote of paragraph 1. We shall vote on point 1 of the draft resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We are now voting on the remaining points of this draft resolution. [[The voting was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE and abstentions from the PS, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall now vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for a law No 279 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, updating the definition of terrorism. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] For the final text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 280 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), laying down new grounds for the granting of nationality by naturalization and for the opposition to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality, we shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We now move on to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 280 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which requires an absolute majority of Members to be effective in their duties, because they are an organic law, and therefore we will have to act on the mechanisms for electronic voting. [[The vote was taken with 179 votes in favour (PSD, PS and CDS-PP) and 23 against (PCP, BE and Os Verdes).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u312	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u313	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u314	Mr President, it is to make a note to the House that I am going to give a statement of vote on this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u315	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for a law No 281 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 101 / 2001 of 25 August establishing the legal regime for actions covered for the purpose of prevention and criminal investigation, allowing all illegal acts related to terrorism to be included in the actions covered. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In the overall final vote, we shall also vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, relating to Bill No 282 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January establishing measures to combat organised and economic-financial crime in order to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for a law No 283 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 52 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 ( Counter-Terrorism Act), criminalising public apology and displacements for the practice of the crime of terrorism. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 284/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 11 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory, amending the grounds for the granting and cancellation of visas and for the application of the ancillary expulsion penalty. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u316	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u317	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u318	Mr President, it is also for the House to note that I am going to issue a statement of vote on this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u319	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 285 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended third Act No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Criminal Investigation Organization Act to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] In the overall final vote, we shall vote on the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, relating to Bill No 286 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, amending the composition of the Higher Council for Internal Security and the organization and operation of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u320	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u321	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u322	Mr President, it is to inform that with regard to draft resolutions Nos 1383 and 1387 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) I shall make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u323	Mr Pacheco, I now call on Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read out an opinion from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u324	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Comarca de Aveiro Santa Maria da Feira — Central Court — 3. the Criminal Instruction Section — J2, Case No. 1179 / 14.0TAVFR, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr.António Cardoso ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-30.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will take place on 6 Wednesday at 3 p.m. on the agenda for the fiftieth anniversary debate with the Prime Minister. I wish everyone a good 1. May and good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 58 minutes.]]
