ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to do the right thing to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u2	Emergency recovery of the Buçaco Forest and its appreciation for recognition as the World Heritage Site ( BE), which drops to 8. the Commission, 1432 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the Office for External Budgetary Control ( fourth amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 20 / 2004 of 16 February 2004 approving the Structure and Skills of the Services of the Assembly of the Republic ) ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verde ), 1433 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the dairy sector ( PS ), 1434 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of incentives for urban conversion of the Urban Areas of Genese Ilégal, in particular the eligibility for application of the planned tax regime for urban rehabilitation, with the necessary adaptations ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1435 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse developments in the health impacts of cannabis use, adopt measures to prevent its consumption and study the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes ( PCP ), 1436 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an active policy in the area of drug addiction prevention and risk reduction ( PS ), 1437 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extension of the universe of higher education scholarships through the revision of the « study grant regulation to higher education students » ( BE), 1438 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a fund for the financing of the conversion of urban areas of Ilegal ( AUGI ) ( BE ), 1439 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to prevent and eliminate practices of police violence and racism ( BE ), which fall to 1. the Commission, 1440 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — To ensure a development path in Portugal, with justice and equality ( The Greens ), 1441 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1442 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a review of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019, in order to include policy measures promoting investment, growth and employment ( PS ) and 1443 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures necessary to break with austerity ( BE ). They also entered, having been admitted, the projects of lein.o 881 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September establishing the financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August establishing the legal regime for local business activity and local participations ( CFP ), 882 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act ( CFP ), 883/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Strengthens democratic control by the deliberative bodies of the participating entities on the entities of the local business sector and other entities within the perimeter of the local administration by the second amendment to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September and the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August ( BE ), 884 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensures labour stability for workers in the local business sector by making the second amendment to Law No 50 / 2012 of 31 August adapting it to Council Directive 2001 / 23 / EC of 12 March ( BE) and 885 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of university tips for proven economic deficiency and introduce the exemption of propines in the academic year 2015 / 2016 ( BE). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u3	I would like to inform everyone that Parliament has decided to introduce, before the agenda, a moment for the intervention of parliamentary groups, immediately reacting to the tragedy of the Mediterranean. Parliamentary groups and the Bureau are in a position to do this today, with the participation of representatives of the parliamentary groups and also with the intention of keeping one minute of silence in memory of the victims. In fact, the normal order of our working journey in Parliament does not feel sorry — since it would be on Friday that there would be a vote of regret, as is common — with our willingness to respond now. Therefore, the Bureau is already registering parliamentary groups to intervene on this issue, and the first registration is from the PSD, Mr António Rodrigues. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to point out that we cannot refer to the tragedy of the Mediterranean. We have to refer to the drama of the Mediterranean, because it is not an act that has happened at some point, it has been an act that has taken place over the past few years, systematically, daily and for which all of us here in Parliament have repeatedly called attention. It is important, too, to note the responsibility and initiative of the President, who brought not only this problem to the House as he approved draft resolutions and, more than that, as President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, he set up as the main issue for all parliaments to discuss this matter in Europe outside. It is something that we cannot stay away from, which we cannot remain immune and which we must devote our attention and commitment to. The second aspect is that you have to end here the moment of hypocrisy. It's easy to talk about the drama, it's easy to talk about the tragedy, it's easy to mourn the thousands of dead who have been there, but it takes more. It is not enough for the Nostrum Sea, not just any Triton operation, there must be a political dimension that not only one and only Heads of State and Government of countries of the European Union and other States—and also the United States of America, which have already manifested—but also all those who are the origin of the problem, assuming once and for all that it is necessary to fight this at the source, to end the situation of all those who just run away to find better living conditions. Surely we regret the deaths, we are certainly concerned and we accompany, in solidarity, all those who want to do something, but it is important that this message should be passed on from here to tomorrow to the European Council, which will be devoted to this matter, to the Council of Europe, to the United Nations, to the International Organization for Migration, to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, that we all want to combat this, but it is not throwing money on this problem that it will no longer be a problem, it is not just a budget boost that we are going to combat this situation. We are solidarity, we are concerned, we will report, we will concern ourselves with everything that is being done, but it is necessary, together — Europe, Africa, America and international organizations — that we know, once and for all, to fight this situation and to prevent more first-page news or footnotes on the dead that have occurred in the Mediterranean. We have a particular responsibility, I fear - politically done - we must continue to fight for this, drawing attention that it is not a problem of Italy, it is not a problem of the European Union, it is a problem that is beginning to be a world problem. That is why, Madam President, you will continue to count on us, and here too we point out your efforts, but for the future, that we know in good time to say "that is enough! "That's enough! », we end up, once and for all, with all this, which is, above all, a business. And death is never a business anywhere. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u5	The intervention by Mr Ferro Rodrigues of the PS follows. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What has happened in recent days and weeks in the Mediterranean is a horror and shame, at the same time. A horror for thousands of people who stay there, including hundreds of children, dead when looking for the future, bread and less unhappiness. Since the beginning of the year, more than 1600 people have been victims of shipwrecks, of which about 800 are only on this last weekend, most children, coming from Syria, Eritrea, Somalia, Mali, Gabon, to Bangladesh. And it is a shame because the so-called "civilized world" in general, and European countries in particular have only seen fear and hatred in differences and unknowns so far. Without a doubt, we must help with acts, not words, peace and development in the southern Mediterranean, not forgetting the mistakes that have been made by Europe and the European Union in recent years. There is no doubt that it is necessary to patrol and ensure maritime safety and combat trafficking in persons, but the European States, the European Union and not only the Mediterranean, must find human, practical solutions for all, responding to the concrete problems that today reach thousands of people and multiple countries on both sides. I am reminding myself of two countries in the European Union, Italy and Greece, so often criticized and sacrificed at all this point and which must also be supported in this case. We welcome the action of the President of the Assembly of the Republic, who has long been involved in this issue and we invite you to maintain persistence, non-conformity and determination. That is what we, of all parties, must do, too, against the deficits of solidarity and the excesses of national selfishness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u7	The CDS-PP intervention is followed. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was, of course, with shock, horror and regret that we witnessed the tragic news of the last two weeks, especially because they do not even have an exceptional character and it is even more brutal to acknowledge that it was not an isolated tragedy in time and space. As someone clearly said this week « The Mediterranean seems to become a common valley», which is unacceptable, in view of our principles, to what we believe in, in what we are gathered together but also in what separates us. It is unacceptable to keep everything as it is or, at least, to stay close to what it is. We have a pragmatic and objective view and we know that the European Council of tomorrow will not, unfortunately, solve the problem. But indifference is never a solution to this horror. And with the same rationality as we know and we are aware that, due to its complexity and its difficulty, we cannot believe that a mere meeting of a European Council, although at the highest level and called with urgency, can solve this problem, however, we have a duty to believe, I would say until it requires concrete measures. Not declarations of intent, not declarations of principles, but concrete measures that allow no condescendence to these organized mobs that have made the human trafficking business one of the most, but the most profitable of all, overcoming other trafficking, such as drug trafficking or arms trafficking. We must be absolutely implacable in the fight against these networks, this traffic and, of course, we must also be supportive. And solidarity towards cooperation and development plans in these countries of origin of immigration, but also solidarity within the European Union. This is not only a problem of Italy, it is not a problem of Rome, it is not a problem of Madrid, it is also a problem of Berlin, Copenhagen or Warsaw. And here, often, the North / South separation in the Councils, in the interest and attention that is given to these matters, also generates situations of ambiguity, not even of hypocrisy. And it was good that this did not happen at the European Council tomorrow. I would also like to say, Madam President, that, within the horror and tragedy, we were also proud to see that the Portuguese vessel that participated in these patrol measures contributed to preventing the chacin from getting even bigger, that there would be more deaths. I would finish, because it is fair, with a word for Mrs President, that not a week ago, not two years ago, but long ago he has known and managed to put this matter on the agenda of the presidents of the various national parliaments, giving a contribution which I think we should all be proud of. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u9	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have clearly demonstrated our dismay and shock with which it is happening in the Mediterranean Sea, due to the size of the tragedy that has occurred very recently, but not only, but also with the other tragedies that occur in the Mediterranean Sea, with people who desperately try to achieve the survival that they cannot guarantee in their countries. It is not here, as we have sometimes heard, to pursue any dream, just to try to survive at all costs. We therefore associate ourselves with all the sorrow that may arise because of the situation that is taking place. There has already been talk of hypocrisy, and it is good to talk about hypocrisy. Hypocrisy of the leaders of the European Union, who regret the consequences after having to take responsibility for the causes. We can't forget that. No one is unaware that the chaos in Libya has been created with direct intervention by the British air force and the French air force, who have installed in power those who now promote chaos in that country. We must not forget the responsibilities of countries of the European Union in the situation in Libya, including in support of the Islamic State, which is now so deeply regretted but which has been a fact. We cannot forget the origin of all this, some years ago, with the war of Iraq, which was to destroy weapons of mass destruction that did not exist. We must not forget this hypocrisy of those who regret the consequences after promoting the causes. But the concern of the European Union now in view of this situation should not be the concern of many thousands of people in Europe. The concern should be greater with those who do not arrive, with those who die on the way to the hands of the mafia and gangs of prescribers who seek to extort these people from their parks with the promise of bringing Europe to, people who so often shipwreck on the way. The European Union's concern should be with the situation of people in their countries, not encouraging the wars that have led to these countries and effectively fighting the mafia that they exploit in the Mediterranean sea. Finally, Madam President, the European Union cannot lament the dead and expel the survivors. People who can reach Europe under these conditions must be treated with humanity and dignity. And it is required that the countries of the European Union treat these people in a human and dignified manner, without giving in to the winds of racism and xenophobia that they are campaigning for this outside Europe and that, like the Mafias, they must also be fought in an intransigent way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Mediterranean Sea has the most deadly routes in the world. It is the classification that the UN assigns, when we watch with a hallucinating frequency the shipwrecks that rob thousands of women, men and children. How many times do we ask ourselves: why? Why do they enter overcrowded boats and face the dangers and the unknown? The answer lies in the drama that is their life, hunger and poverty, in the absence of total expectations for the future, in the war and in the violence that lives in their countries. What would we do, each and every one of us, for the survival of our sons and daughters? The genocide that takes place in the waters of the Mediterranean has to have an end. Europe, the European Union has the responsibility to prevent this humanitarian tragedy. No human being, I repeat, no human being can be denied help! Europe cannot be a fortress, which laments the deaths in the sea but closes the doors to those and those who want to enter. Humanist values, solidarity and the defense of human dignity must prevail. This is the challenge of civilization, it is the challenge that is placed on all of us. Today, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're in mourning. Tomorrow, it's time for solutions. More comprehensive solutions, it is true, but also immediate solutions, which put life and human dignity first. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u13	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Considering the successive tragedies that continue to occur almost daily in the Mediterranean, The Greens also express their sorrow and indignation at the death of more than 1000 people only in the latest shipwrecks, men, women and children fleeing war, hunger and extreme poverty. We know that there are causes and responsible for this serious situation, of course, the European Union's immigration policy, the lack of support for the poor fleeing from hunger and extreme poverty in those regions of Africa and the Middle East, and therefore we also understand that the situation requires its real leaders, especially the governments of the European Union, in particular the Portuguese Government, to assume full responsibility for the effort to change policies. Of course, an immigration policy, because peace must be achieved in the Mediterranean region, through migration and asylum policies that respect human life and dignity, solidarity and social progress, for respect for the right of peoples to decide on their destinations. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u15	Now that all the parliamentary groups have intervened, I would also, briefly, like to join firmly in the interventions that have taken place here. The gigantic dimension of the absurdity that lies in the immense tragedies of the Mediterranean awakens us all to our responsibility for the world. For what is politics but that, a kind of love for the world that we have to exercise in every day and which is of particular concern to the leaders, to those who have been elected to lead the life of all, to the creation of a common good? This tragedy draws the attention of the leaders and, above all, of the European leaders, because they carry the values of human rights in their institutional structures and therefore have a fundamental role of leadership in the conduct of the convergence of actions that is necessary to solve this problem. This problem is solved from a policy that looks at the effects but deals with the causes. It deals with development policies, it deals with active dialogue policy to prevent or solve major conflicts, it seeks to make visible a huge amount of misery in the world, which is not always under our attention. I can't help but quote Bertolt Brecht here, when he said that poverty throws people in the dark, it's the misery that makes men invisible. And perhaps the immense tragedy, which is in addition to other immense tragedies, ultimately awakens us Europeans to create solutions that really stem from the causes. I just wanted to leave here the memory of my visit to Lampedusa, in a ceremony in which the families of the victims of other tragedies that occurred more than one year ago, on the day that the tears joined the seawater, in which the cries of the families mixed with the speeches, in which we had the impactive power of life upon us to awaken ourselves. I also wanted to pay tribute that is usually forgotten and that was just reminded in Lampedusa by the official forces operating in the Mediterranean. It is the role of the merchant navy, its almost hidden solidarity, which demands nothing. And they told me that rescue ships would never be able to do their work without merchant ships that pass occasionally and help in unlimited solidarity. Mrs. Members, everyone knows that the Portuguese Parliament has the Presidency of the Union's Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean, which has led it under the single subject of migration and has achieved a unanimous approach to this subject in this collective. It shows that life already weighs on thought and that solving is already a question of existence. I would also like to tell you and the general public that the Portuguese Parliament has been preparing a great summit for almost a year, where the presidents of the parliaments of the European Union and the presidents of the parliaments of the Mediterranean basin will be present to discuss this issue, with the practical sense of concluding a role of concrete short- and medium-term measures, which will be presented by the Portuguese Presidency to the European Council, the European Commission and the European Parliament. It will take place on the 11th and 12th of May. Parliament therefore feels that its role in the Presidency of the Union's Parliamentary Assembly for the Mediterranean could not have chosen the best issue, is the issue that is put on the table, as we are asking ourselves in our transversal policies to resolve it without looking at efforts. I also thank everyone's words. It is with the effort of all of us that we have been counting, also in coordination with the International Organisation for Migration and its director, in tireless work, to build concrete proposals that we will take to the European centre. Mrs. Members, after this moment of joint reflection, asked us, on behalf of these, to keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I would also like to add that the Government has sent the Bureau the information that it joins at this time, as has already been shown here, and the honourable Members have joined it. Members of the Government present. We will move on to our agenda, which is, as you all know, the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, together with various draft resolutions on a convergent theme, which I will begin to identify: draft resolutions 1416 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Rejects the continuation of right-wing policy and proposes an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy ( PCP ), 1440 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — To ensure a development path in Portugal, with justice and equality ( The Greens ), 1441 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1442 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a review of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 so as to include policy measures promoting investment, growth and employment ( PS ) and 1443 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures necessary to break with austerity ( BE ). To open the debate, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2015 marks the beginning of a new cycle for Portugal, a cycle defined by accelerating economic growth and improving employment conditions, a framework for full integration into the European Union and the euro area. The completion of the Adjustment Program, achieved with the effort and determination of the Portuguese, was a defining moment of the country's recent history. It found the important results achieved in terms of sustainability of public finances, strengthening financial stability and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. These results deserve recognition and consolidation, but do not go beyond the major challenges that the country still faces. Challenges that we must face with the same determination in recent years, not only to preserve what we have already achieved, but above all to ensure that a crisis of this dimension is never repeated. These are the conditions necessary to open a new cycle of prosperity for all Portuguese and are based on the strategic documents that the Government proposes and which we are discussing today. The National Reform Programme defines the policies proposed by the Government to promote sustained economic growth and job-creating on a medium-term horizon, and explains its link with the strategy drawn up for the development of the European Union as a whole. The Portuguese Government shares the priorities set by the European Commission in the 2015 Annual Growth Analysis, which reflect the moment in Europe and the need to give robustness to the economic growth that begins to make itself felt in general countries. The Government is also concerned with the importance of an integrated approach, based on the encouragement of investment, the renewed commitment to structural reforms and the pursuit of the sense of budgetary responsibility, because only this integrated approach ensures the country's economic and social development. The recovery of investment is already underway, benefiting in particular from the reforms introduced in multiple areas over the past four years, which have strengthened the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and reduced the cost of context. But it will certainly accelerate with the development of new initiatives in the future, opening the way for the creation of more and better jobs, thus responding to the issue which, legitimately, concerns the Portuguese. The commitment to structural reforms, in turn, has to be permanent. Alongside these two pillars, the continuation of budgetary responsibility is also indispensable to ensure the transition to truly sustained economic growth. On the one hand, it is a decisive contribution to the financial stability of the country, resulting in better conditions of financing for the Treasury, which extend to the generality of the economy. On the other hand, budgetary discipline, the promotion of the quality of public finances, and the containment of public expenditure, together allow the State to spend only the resources it needs for the function of redistribution of wealth. This rationalization paves the way for a lower tax burden and allows more resources to be made available to the economy, in particular for private productive investment. And it is this investment that empowers the creation of jobs and new resources. The budgetary strategy of the Stability Programme thus retains the same sense of responsibility over the past four years, respecting the applicable European framework and the principle of sustainability of public finances, and assumes the gradual deterioration of the sacrifices demanded by the Portuguese. Strictness and budgetary discipline are also relevant in this new cycle of managing public finances for the direct benefits of constant commitment to sound public accounts but also for the increasing benefits of serious and active participation in the European Union. Indeed, in defining in the Stability Programme a budgetary path that ensures compliance with European rules, the possibility of requiring the use of flexibility for the Member States positioned in the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact is opened. The use of the so-called structural and investment reform clauses is restricted and is necessarily accompanied by a quantified demonstration of the economic and budgetary benefits over the medium term. It will therefore have to be carefully weighted, ensuring the choice of options with greater return potential. Above all, however, the conditions for their formal request must be ensured, in particular the effective exit of the excessive deficit procedure and an appropriate trajectory of the structural balance. For the year 2015, the Government reiterates its firm commitment to reduce the budget deficit to a value of less than 3 % of GDP, enabling the excessive deficit procedure to be closed in the year defined by the Council. In consonance, Portugal will enter the preventive arm from 2016 onwards, and can benefit from these flexibility conditions. It is also in 2016 that the country will achieve the medium-term objective for the structural balance, one year before the last medium-term budget strategy paper. These results reflect the success of the budgetary policy of recent years, which has enabled the decisive stabilization of the economic and budgetary situation in Portugal. A remarkable stabilization, taking into account an imminent bankruptcy starting point, and particularly relevant for enabling a scenario to be drawn for 2015 - 2019 in which the main transitional consolidation measures that had to be adopted in the most critical period of financial emergency are reversed. Maintaining the sense of responsibility that has been proven successful, this reversal will necessarily be gradual, in line with increasing budgetary availability over time. The budgetary policy initiatives proposed in the Stability Programme thus reconcile the indispensable decommissioning of Portuguese sacrifices with the necessary continuity of budgetary discipline and with a high sense of responsibility for Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The policies defined in the National Reform Programme and the budgetary strategy drawn up in the Stability Programme thus support the continuation of economic and employment recovery, contrasting with the most recent crisis period. The macroeconomic scenario presented by the Government effectively signals the entry into a more favourable cycle, providing for a gradual acceleration of product growth along the projection horizon, based on positive contributions from domestic demand and net exports, the return on investment and the sustained improvement of labour market conditions. Annual GDP growth should be fixed at 1, 6 % this year, accelerating to 2, 0 % in 2016 and 2, 4 % in 2017, remaining around this value in 2018 and 2019. The unemployment rate in turn is expected to reach 13, 2 % in 2015, gradually falling to a value of 11, 1 % in 2019. The external adjustment should also continue, providing for the registration of an external surplus of 2, 7 % of GDP at the end of the forecast period. These perspectives are encouraging but also prudent. The implementation of new structural reforms over the period will certainly have a positive impact on the current trajectory, strengthening growth potential and job creation. The prospects presented in the National Reform Programme and duly supported by the budgetary strategy of the Stability Programme clearly show that the country's future is characterized by greater security and greater confidence, but also by new challenges. Challenges that may give rise to new opportunities if faced with the month the ambition that has characterized the last four years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u17	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies João Galamba, of the PS, Cristóvão Crespo, of the PSD, Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Block of Left, Antonio Filipe, of the PCP, José Luís Ferreira, of The Greens, Vera Rodrigues, of the CDS-PP, Mariana Mortágua, of the BE, and Paulo Sá, of the PCP. I already have the information from the Government that you will answer in sets of two questions. Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, the Government here presents its Stability Programme for the period 2015 to 2019, but seems to forget some recent data of Portuguese economic reality and also some criticisms made, in particular by the Council of Public Finance. The first forgetfulness is this: the government continues to talk about a recovery of employment and a fall in unemployment when, according to data from the last five months, employment began to fall in August and unemployment began to increase in September and the government ignores this reality. We had a debate two weeks ago, where both the Minister and several Members of the two sides that support the Government were talking about unemployment and employment as they were doing well. Therefore, she asked the Minister to make a first comment on employment and unemployment data which are in total contradiction with government discourse and question part of the credibility of the Government's stability programme. Another question that raises some doubts, and which also raised some criticisms by the Council of Public Finance, was the following: Mr. Minister, in essence, provides for a macroeconomic framework based to a large extent on private consumption and on the growth of investment. But — and who says this is the Council of Public Finance — there seems to be no measure to support this optimism. Investment, contrary to what the Minister says, is not recovering; indeed, according to the last survey of the situation — they are the entrepreneurs who say so — grew only 2, 3 % in 2014 and it is expected not a growth, not an acceleration, but a fall in 2015. The Minister says that I and I would ask her to base this optimism. Two weeks ago we had an urgent debate at the request of the CFP, and the Minister of Finance complained that the Constitutional Court had prevented the Government from cutting wages and pensions, blocking part of austerity, and finished her speech boasting to return wages and pensions and saying that this return was a proof of success of government policies. I would like to ask you how it is that a refund of EUR 600 million, which is imposed by the Constitutional Court, in one week, is proof of the success of government policies and, two weeks after that, that Government itself has presented a new pension cut which is exactly the same amount of pensions returned in 2015, that is to say EUR 600 million. So if you can explain this...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u19	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u20	By now, Mrs Minister, if you could also explain how it is possible to cut 600 million euros into pensions, i.e. cut 600 million euros into the available income of the Portuguese, and there is no impact, I repeat, any impact on consumption. Consumption does not slow down, it remains stable. So it seems that we are faced with another measure that is applied and that has a negative impact on the lives of Portuguese people, on consumption, but the government completely ignores this impact in the macroeconomic framework. In conclusion, Mrs President and Mrs Minister, it seems that the Government's optimism has no basis, it is only a profession of faith which the Council itself questions on its grounds. In short, Mrs. Minister of Finance, since we are having a debate on the stability and credibility programme of government proposals, if we could answer each of these questions, the Socialist Party would be grateful. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u21	The next request for clarification will be made by the PSD. Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u22	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, the presentation of the Stability Programme 2015 - 2019 and the National Reform Programme translates the closure that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese or definitive of the consequences of the irresponsible policies of the previous Governments of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The country has won the battle of credibility and cannot return to the irresponsibility of the past. The path will have to be sustainability, rigor and very realism. These were the practice and affirmation of the government and the majority, which is producing good results. All independent institutions, both institutional and private, both national and international, align in the positive assessment of the development of the Portuguese economy. contrary to the opposition, the Catholic University, OECD, Banco de Portugal, Stand & Poor, IMF, Bloomberg, BBVA Research, Citibank, the European Commission or the Council of Public Finance recognize and improve government forecasts for 2015. Indeed, there is a consolidation of projections, both in relation to the 2015 State Budget and the 2014-2018 WD ( Budget Strategy Document), with a scenario of high GDP growth review throughout the period. The perspective is clear as to the recovery of economic activity, because there is a moderate acceleration of employment and a gradual decrease in the unemployment rate and a net financing capacity as a result of the improvement of the external balance of goods and services. This, in fact, is a path to reducing deficit and budgetary adjustment. Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, will it not be ironic, because it is serious, that the same PS that claimed that the government and the majority were driving the country to a recessive spiral, now, considers that in the near future the results will still be better than those expected? Oh, my God! When Mr. João Galamba was speaking in economic reality, the latest news we have, which we do not know whether or not they are assumed by the Socialist Party, are even very optimistic. So I wonder how is it that a situation of a bad scenario of economic reality coincides when what is the basis and has been the work of the current government actually allows to have this positive expectation for the future? How does this note, which the Socialist Party in recent days has given us, an improvement in the future, with the point of departure, contrary to the current government, which has in fact set off on the brink of bankruptcy and the prospect of having the imbalance at the financial level? That was essentially the question to which I would like the Minister to answer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u23	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by clarifying that the Government's proposal for the Stability Programme is not a pension cut, it is a positive impact on the social security budget, in the order of the EUR 600 million, being completely open the combination of cuts in expenditure and increased revenue that can provide this result. Indeed, Mr President, the problem of the sustainability of social security is not solved, as the Socialist Party recognised in the document which it presented yesterday. And I would like to tell Mr. João Galamba that I understand that he does not understand our scenario, because, looking at the one the Socialist Party presented, we see the following: first, starting from a past reality that is not correct, that is, the year 2014 is not what you have there. Secondly, the years 2015 and 2016 do not consider the update of the most recent values, particularly Mr. João Galamba, who highlighted them so much here — the fall in GDP in 2012 and the impact of the last revision of the INE are completely ignored in the scenario presented by the Socialist Party, which we found strange for something that was so important. Third, from 2017 onwards, they will look for October 2014 data, which are made on a SEC-95 ( European System of Accounts ) basis. at least one does not realize, but explains some difficulty that may have to perceive our forecasts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u25	And answer my questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u26	I would also like to tell you, Mr, that the opinion of the Public Finance Council says that the forecasts for the years 2015 and 2016 appear plausible. If we want to quote the evaluation of the Public Finance Council, an independent body, what is here is that the forecasts appear plausible. Mr President, we are speaking in fact of the need to have a credible scenario, and that is precisely why we start from the reality that exists and not from a fictional reality, from a collage of predictions whose consistency, at least, is not perceived, and we start from a prudent approach. We propose a return of income available either through the gradual reduction of the overtax of the IRS, or through the gradual return of salaries from the public sector, which, of course, has a positive impact on consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u27	It is not « return », it is continuation!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u28	As for the measure on pensions, whose model is not closed on the expectation, yet that the Socialist Party, after passing this stage of the elections, will finally accept to sit with us to define a solution that solves the problem that you also recognize exists,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u30	... while maintaining the responsibility of intergenerational equity, when we actually do this analysis, we will make the necessary adjustments. But, Mr President, I am not saying this: UTAO and the Council of Public Finance have done the analysis and both say that the forecasts are consistent and plausible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u31	Before we proceed with the requests for clarification, I inform you that are present, in the Diplomatic Gallery, Members of the Parliamentary Group of Amizade Brasil-Portugal, that we welcome, with great pleasure. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, the next request for clarification will be made to the Minister by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, to whom I give the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u32	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the document that the Government presented as a Stability Programme tells us that it is in fact more of the same: cuts are to continue; the brutal increase in taxes is to maintain; austerity is the new normality, and, in this new normality, what is exception are exactly the rights. And he alerts us already: either the troika enters, by its policy, in this document which the Government has submitted, with its austerity and maintenance of its cuts and the brutal increase in wages, or then, the troika will normally come in person from a few years ago. It is the blackmail of austerity, again, in our eyes. We now see, unequivocally, how this blackmail which is imposed as an exception to workers' rights now has new supporters; we now see, unequivocally, the arc of cuts, the arc of cuts in wages. It is true that some want to cut more, others want to cut less, but both think that the way is to cut workers' salaries; some think that they should pay bills and others think that they should pay penguins, but both insist that it is the workers who should cut wages. Now, Mr. Minister, the Constitutional Court said, without any doubt, that it was not possible to cut wages, because there was no exception in 2016. It was even more concrete: he said that according to the Government's perspective, there was no procedure for excessive deficit and therefore there was no exception in 2016, there would be no possibility of any cuts, whatever they were, the stocks or penguins. Therefore, Minister, explain to us what is the exceptionality the Government will now argue to say that it wants to continue cutting wages in 2016. In other words, we already know that the alternative is to say, only ideologically, that it is the maintenance of the government's war with the Constitutional Court. We know, because the Minister has already said it, that the safes are full, but we have to cut wages. After all, who are they full for? Oh, my God! And, looking at this document, we realize that they're full for energy companies, and that's why they're going to lower the contribution, they're full for big economic groups, and that's why they keep cutting the IRC for them. But they're empty for the workers, and that's why they want to cut wages. They are empty for social security, where they tell us—see this paradigm! ... — that there is a hole of EUR 600 million, exactly at the same time that tells us that it will move to TSU to reduce the employers' contributions to social security. After all, what should we understand, Minister? Is there a hole or not? Are the safes full or not and for whom are the safes full? These are our questions after reading your document, your Stability Programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u33	Also to ask for clarification, I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u34	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the Stability Programme - this time without growth - and the National Reform Programme that the Government brings to this House are documents that lie to itself. The government has a pre-election speech, which is the speech of the resumption: the country is better; when we arrived to the government everything was very bad but now everything is very good; the troika has left; the sacrifices have already been and the future is now a joke. But then comes the little letters: austerity must continue; reforms must continue to infinite and beyond; the increase in taxes will continue enormous; cuts in wages and pensions are to continue to lose sight. A relief is promised on the eve of elections, to deceive the most unwary, but what is expected is more than the worst of the last four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u36	in a word: this majority has no alternative to the impoverishment to which the country has condemned, and what the government tells us is that austerity must continue, otherwise, return to the troika. Either the government makes a troika or returns the troika, with whipping in hand, to put the government in order. What the government tells the Portuguese is summed up in a statement by a well-known Brazilian song: «if you run away, the bug takes; if you stay, the bug eats». It states to the Government that our country has commitments that we cannot question and, at least, discuss. This is not new, the dominants have always considered their domain to be indisputable. But the dominated have the rights and the duty to discuss and question the causes of their domination and to choose the way to their liberation. When we say that renegotiating the debt and freeing the country from the constraints imposed by the budget treaty, in order to promote economic growth, are national imperatives, the government, as the spokesperson of the dominant ones, accuses us of trying to throw the country into the flames of hell. This argument, however, is neither serious nor even argument. The government simply repeats bricks as absolute truths not to argue in which the hell of renegotiation of debt and the recovery of our sovereignty is worse than the paradise of poverty and poverty that millions of Portuguese want to condemn. The majority and, say in favour of the truth, also the PS, want to convince us that there is no debt beyond the grilles imposed on us by the euro zone leaders, but the reality is that the euro zone has become a paradise for the multinationals and for the speculators and a purgatory for those who live in their work. The consequences of this policy are well seen by all: recession, social backwardness, increase in poverty and exploitation, triumph of speculation and inequality. Before a government that wants to condemn us to continue on this path, what we say is that it is time to say enough and that there is an alternative we propose and for which we will continue to fight in defence of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u37	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u38	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you said it was more than that, but in fact it is not possible to make an immediate reversal of all the measures; it is not possible because that would not be responsible. From the moment the Government intends to make the immediate reversal of all measures we would have immediate impact on the inability to finance and, Mr President, if there is no funding, there is no way after fulfilling these promises. I'm not even a stranger to the gentlemen. Members say that if you want to "golden the pill" before the elections. We are telling the Portuguese that the next four years will be less difficult than the previous ones, but that it is not possible to recover at all. Mr.António Filipe, you have never heard me say that we have a paradise or that it is all right now. In fact, I was careful to say in my initial intervention that we still have important challenges ahead. The problems that the country has accumulated and that began to be solved in 2011 are, unfortunately, such a magnitude that it was not possible to be solved within four years was by whoever it was. We have begun to solve them, solve the flow problem, or, as we say, we have stopped digging, but we still have to climb out of the hole that still exists, and that is why we for the next four years have, in fact, to have a prudent approach. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, said we are still going down the IRC to the big companies. Mr President, the overtax of IRS will fall to individuals, to families, but the overtax of IRC to businesses, which is the spill, which has an additional tax on profits of higher amounts, remains in force and there is no proposal to reduce in these documents. So when you say that companies are being benefited, I tell you that large companies continue to have an overtax. SMEs, who do not have it, benefit from the decline of IRC and, of course, the government is concerned about these companies and the conditions they have to create jobs and provide wealth for families. It is that this false dichotomy that companies are benefiting by harming families... in a run-in economy perhaps families do not need businesses, but in an economy like portuguese they need, and much. We need to support companies, we need to nurture companies, especially SMEs, which create jobs in this country, and that is important to preserve. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, with reference to the question of the safes that are full, I would say that we do not need to negotiate programmes in a hurry and not compromise the Portuguese future because we do not have the ability to find money to pay salaries and pensions, because the concern of the disadvantaged is not done with rhetoric, it is done with actions and responsibility to ensure that every day 10, every day 20, every day 22, in which there are responsibilities to take, we have enough money to do so. That is why, at times of great instability, we have an obligation to keep a pillow that ensures that this is always assured. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, in the last four years, if there is something we know, it is the price of not paying attention to this care, which unfortunately we all pay very much and which will still take time until we get rid of all the consequences. The honourable Member also referred to the descent of the TSU or not. Once again, what the Government indicates in these programmes is the recognition, from our point of view, of the importance it has for competitiveness to reduce labour costs. We propose, among other possible measures, to consider the possibility of reducing TSU to employers benefiting from the flexibility clause to which we will have access after we leave the excessive deficit procedure. That is to say, Mr President, that it is not necessary to impose this cost on other agents, on workers or on other kinds of impacts if we can accommodate this in the deficit, taking into account the flexibility clause, but we will necessarily need to leave the excessive deficit procedure this year. Mr António Filipe, I understand that the solution you propose is radically different: the exit of the euro, the failure to fulfil the commitments with Europe. It is a completely different approach, which I respect, Mr President, but we respectfully disagree about. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u39	To put the next question, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u40	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme presented by the Government allows us to draw at least three conclusions: the first is that austerity policies are to continue now without a troika; the second is that sacrifices and cuts, which have always been presented by the Government as provisional, become definitive; and the third is that the Government continues to refuse to learn from mistakes. In four years of austerity, what is the result? at the level of production, we have GDP falling systematically, public investment is experiencing truly frightening cuts, 6, 6 % less than GDP since the beginning of austerity, 0, 5 million jobs have been destroyed, forced migration to reach the record value of the last 50 years, more taxes, lower wages and less state, deepening the inequalities with poverty to be widespread while 5 % of the population has 50 % of wealth and not even a single stimulus to our economy! As the Minister knows, the only stimulus given to our economy was not the work of the Government, it was the work of the Constitutional Court. So the government has failed in its policies, but it insists on the mistake, and what we think is that worse than wrong is not to learn from mistakes. For example, the government says it has made war on public-private partnerships, but the government is transposing the model of public-private partnerships to how to make politics. It is that the public-private partnerships were a trick that governments have set up to do work in the present and for those who are next to pay, and the government is doing exactly the same with the cuts, i.e. this government has cut and now those who follow that resolve. So here's a likeness of the model. Mr. Minister, the Constitutional Court has dropped the cut in wages for 2014 and 2015, but said « no» to any solution to the solutions, but the Government insists on this solution. The question has already been raised here today, the Minister said nothing about it, so I would like to say something about this solution of the return to wage solutions after the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u41	Also for a question, you have the floor of Mrs Vera Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u42	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, today we are discussing the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme presented by the Government, which is from now on a sign that we are leaving the Financial Assistance Programme. But we also discuss the draft resolutions accompanying this debate, particularly that of the Socialist Party, where it is suggested and recommended that the Government promote measures that stimulate investment, growth and employment. And I ask you, Minister: how would we do that? Can we do this in the fashion of the Socialist Party? The Socialist Party presented its solutions yesterday. I know that Mr. João Galamba tried to put the debate here saying it was only about the Stability Programme, but the truth is we now know what the Socialist Party's solutions are. And the solutions of the Socialist Party, Mrs.Minister, are to have more debt, to have more deficit, to have more taxes in the future, to have more uncertainty and to keep leaving the bill for others to pay. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u43	Madam Minister, we want sustained growth of the Portuguese economy that allows greater independence, greater competitiveness to our companies. The PS wants to continue to stimulate Portugal's subsidisation and dependence in the medium and long term, again from our creditors. So, Minister, what we know yesterday was a document that probably may not be a Bible but is a direct guide to a new disgrace and a new request for financial assistance. [[PS protests.]] The Members of the Socialist Party are very upset, but I myself am stunned by the madness of your proposals. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u44	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult for us to hear Mrs Vera Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u45	Madam Minister, the answer that must begin to be clear is the following: who took Portugal to the bottom of the well and who removed it from the bottom of the misfortune and the pre-bancarrot? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u46	This question has to be answered and the PS cannot run away, because the Portuguese have memory and the Socialist Party's bench is filled with accomplices of this misfortune, who present themselves here made, but whose face is exactly the same. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u47	Look, the debt has increased today. Didn't you read the data?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u48	But if the protagonists are the same, Mrs. Minister, how can we expect a different result? I do not expect a result other than the same protagonists, and therefore, Mrs Minister, there must be a clear line between what is the government's position, to speak clearly, to tell the truth and to assume responsibilities. And what is this, Minister? It is the opposite of failing the country, it is the opposite of leaving the debts to pay and it is the opposite of doing everything that the PS has already done, but whose lesson has not learned why he wants to do exactly the same thing. No, thank you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u49	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u50	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, began his speech saying that he sees GDP falling systematically. I don't know where you see GDP falling systematically because it's growing since 2013. It is true that GDP has fallen a lot, it is true that we have had a deep recession, because we were in fact in a very difficult situation, but GDP has increased again and GDP will continue to grow in the coming years as we are gradually recovering, but above all, recovering sustainably and consolidated. Mr President, we have seen the recipe as well — and Mrs Vera Rodrigues has said it, and very well; it was before the elections in 2009 that there is no need to retreat — in which much is promised and given. I, as a state worker, remember that I grew by 2, 9 % and then cut by 10 %, and the difference between the two things is before and after the elections. Therefore, Mrs. Vera Rodrigues, it is true that with the same recipe and the same protagonists I do not know how it is possible to expect a different result, but in good truth what is expected is the same thing. That is, the PS, before, has always waited for that result. It was never achieved, but from the point of view of consistency it really seemed that it would make it right. The problem is that, as you did not, the Portuguese were always here to pay the bill and to have to sacrifice themselves to pay what was promised, but that then went very badly. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. José Luís Ferreira, with regard to the distribution of wealth, the liberalization rate on capital income was increased by this government to 28 %. You have never been so tall, Mr. Deputies. On interest, on dividends, on capital income, he was never so high, and in either of these documents he will not find any intention to lower that rate precisely because of the concern that we have to reduce inequalities. We have always had a huge concern to protect the lowest categories of income; we have increased the minimum social and rural pensions, which had been frozen before, we have only applied wage reductions from certain levels, never to the lowest levels; the IRS has never been as progressive as it is now. How can you say that this government has no concern about equality and that it says who is next that it will return? Mr President, we want to come next, we want to be returning as much as possible and we assume that, if it is possible to make a faster reversal of wage cuts, a faster reversal of the overtax of IRS, we will certainly do so, Mr President. We have no taste in telling the Portuguese that we need four years to restore these levels of income, what we understand is that the Portuguese deserve to hear the truth, deserve a responsible attitude and, above all, they do not deserve to be returned more quickly, so that they will have to go twice as far as possible. This, surely, the Portuguese don't deserve! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs Vera Rodrigues says that the PS solution is more debt and more deficit. Unfortunately, it is, Madam Member, but I am still very pleased to note that the PS recognises that public debt is sustainable, although we know that some of the subscribers of the current document have subscribed others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u51	It's consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u52	They now recognize that debt is sustainable, even the projection of the debt presented by the PS and that it is superior to the Government's proposal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u53	The Bureau also recorded an inscription for requests for clarification by Mr Eduardo Cabrita, who had understood as intervention. The government bench is informed, so the Minister will answer together to the last three. Ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u54	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, according to the plan presented by the Government in 2019, civil servants will receive their salary again, 10 years later public servants will receive their salary again. But 10 years later, the wage is less, less 15 % than it has been worth 10 years. Therefore, in 2019, public servants will receive less, they will receive 75 % of the value of their salary. In 2019, workers will stop paying an overtax of IRS, 10 years later they will stop paying an overtax of IRS. But the overtax is only one third of the brutal increase in taxes, the rest will continue, 10 years later. In 2019, large companies will pay an IRC rate of 18 %, 10 years later they will pay less 28 % of taxes than they paid in 2011. And this, even if it has an overload of 2 %, 3 %, 4 % or 7 %! They will pay less than a quarter of the taxes they paid in 2011, they will pay less taxes, they will pay less for work, they will even pay zero, because now the government subsidizes internships for large companies, at least until the elections, at least to get out of the statistics, because, on the way to the elections, there is no way of having so many unemployed in the statistics. The government even goes to big businesses to lower the rate they pay for social security, so that after a few years, they come to say that social security has a sustainability problem, so it is necessary to cut 600 million pensions. It is this logic of cutting into the contribution to social security, to then say that it is not sustainable and has to cut pensions. Mrs. Minister, looking for 2019 is looking at austerity in the last 10 years and realizing to whom it has benefited. Public servants lost 15% of their salary, out of 10 years without increases and cuts, people pay more IRS and more taxes, companies pay much less taxes than they paid before the troika entered. Finally, a question concerning the Constitutional Court, which has already been asked and has not been answered. The Constitutional Court was clear: the cuts are acceptable in an exceptional state. And the question I make is so clear how clear the Constitutional Court was: will you insist on an unconstitutional measure that keeps the cuts or the new cycle is, after all, five more years of the state of exception that the Minister so much strives to deny? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u55	To make your request for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u56	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the Government intends to maintain the extraordinary overtax at the IRS by 2019. Contrary to what the Government states in the Stability Programme, the reduction in overtax does not correspond to a significant reduction in the tax burden on labour. in fact, the Government and the Minister have quite rightly forgotten to say that the extraordinary overtax represents less than one quarter of the brutal tax draw for workers' income. Ms. Minister, in 2013 was not only introduced the overtax, but also reduced the number of steps and increased the rate of IRS at each step, including at the lowest step, of people with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u58	If the overtax represented an increase of EUR 700 million in tax revenue, the reduction in the number of steps and the brutal increase in rates represented an increase of EUR 2500 million. On these EUR 2500 million neither a word in the Stability Programme nor a word in the plenary today. Even if the overtax is completely eliminated in 2019 — something that does not happen from a promise in the year of elections — there are still more than three quarters of the tax draw. What has been announced as temporary, to last as long as the Troika Programme lasts, becomes, by the will and option of the Government, definitive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u59	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u60	Mrs Minister, you have to explain to the Portuguese why you keep this brutal tax burden on labour income. And don't just talk about the overtax, Mrs Minister, because the overtax represents less than one quarter of the tax collection; talk about the other three quarters that the government wants to make definitive, but which it announced as provisional. The Minister has to explain to the Portuguese why she does not want to lower the IRS rates, the labour income tax while trying to reduce, for six consecutive years, the IRC rate, the corporate profit tax. The Minister has to explain this option, she has to explain why the Government has two weights and two measures, why she wants to continue to crush with taxes who live in her work at the same time as she wants to further encourage large businesses and economic groups. Madam Minister, recognize that the government's fiscal policy is a policy of scandalous promotion of large capital, at the expense of workers' crushing. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u61	Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u62	Madam President, Minister of State and Finance, I confess that I was surprised by her initial intervention, which consolidates a feeling of hopelessness, a feeling of defeatism, a feeling of lost time that marks this Stability Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the Minister speaks, in this bizarre debate held by a government a few months after the end of her term of office, of that which is the expectation of the evolution they wish for the country by 2019, what she points out, both from the Programme and from the debate, is that it makes no sense that this path will continue, because this is a lost time. Ms. Minister referred to the UTAO report and did well, but she should mention it in greater detail, because the UTAO report today disclosed tells us that the growth projection envisaged in this Stability Programme determines that GDP in 2015 remains at the level of GDP in 2001. This is the result of four years of its government : we will be at the 2001 GDP level in 2015! [[P.S.'s applause.]] More, Mrs Minister : how can you, with this serenity, congratulate yourself on a programme that puts the level of economic activity in 2019 at the level of what was in 2008 — it is UTAO who says so! — that is, before the outbreak of the international financial crisis, which the Minister here once again ignored, on an isolated basis, for reasons of internal politicism and partisanship, in her analysis of the Portuguese economic situation? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I told the Minister that it's time to talk about work. I said this timidly, because this is the variable that the government has never been able to explain when it has grown, nor has it been able to explain, in recent months, when it has negatively influenced its position. And again, UTAO tells us that the job creation planned until 2018 means a lower level of employment than we had in 2009 before the crisis. Mrs. Minister, how does she admit that her expectation for 2019 is that we will be, at that time, worse than we were in 2009? Oh, my God! The third note has to do with the investment. This is the priority of Europe today: the strategic investment programme, the bet on good public investment and good private investment. This government does not have a significant private investment that can be proud of as a mark of this time; what we have is an investment at the level of the one that was registered at the time of accession to the European Union. Let's go back 30 years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also there UTAO tells us that the level of investment envisaged in this Programme places public and private investment behind what we had in 2008.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u63	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u64	It is time to conclude, Madam President, you are absolutely right! It is time to end this disgrace, it is time to conclude the state of this government! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u65	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u66	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it is true, it is 10 years to recover the salary of the public sector. It is regrettable, indeed, that we have had such a deep recession that we may need 10 years to recover. We hope that we will be able to shorten something by that time, but addressing the next four years responsibly requires that we do not lose what has been achieved, because we want it to be recovered indeed. If it has to take 10 years, what we regret—and I, Mrs. Member, as a worker in the public sector, regret, like all other workers in the public sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u67	Some more than others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u68	... that there will be an effective loss of purchasing power—it will take time, but what we have to guarantee is that it will be effectively recovered. And if today, that we are starting this recovery cycle, we will lose everything because we want to recover everything at one time, Mrs Deputies, neither from here to four, nor from here to five, nor from here to ten years, it will be lost at once, and we must ensure that it does not happen. The honourable Member has again used the same expression, that 600 million pensions must be cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u69	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u70	Once again, Mrs Deputy, the positive impact on the Budget should be this order of magnitude, but it is not mentioned anywhere, proposed nowhere on either side or simulated anywhere a cut of 600 million euros in pensions. What we say is that we need a positive impact on the social security budget, this order of magnitude, which can be a combination of various measures, as the Government has already proposed. It was not possible to do so, but we are fully open to a dialogue with the Socialist Party so that it can achieve this result with a different combination, so the Socialist Party wants to sit with us, which would hope it would be easier now, having been recognized that there is indeed a problem of sustainability in social security. The honourable Member asks whether we are still in a state of emergency and I would remind you of an issue which the Council of Public Finance referred to in a recent report in which it made an assessment of the sustainability of public finances, in particular the one before it, which dealt with the Stability Programme and the macroeconomic scenario. It says the Council of Public Finance that, if the measures currently in force are withdrawn, in 2016 the country will again have a deficit of more than 3 %. I don't know how to interpret this, but I'd say going out of a state of exception to get into it right now is probably a good argument. In any case, I would disagree, because what the Constitutional Court said was that, at the outset, it would not see a justification, but it was not so taxable. But, as I say to you, Madam Member, if the criterion is that of the excessive deficit procedure, if we reject the wages all at once, we fall there again. So, now, we're putting on and taking it out every year? Oh, my God! That's not life, Mrs. Member. On the question of Mr Paulo Sá, who says that the overtax of IRS is less than one quarter of the total gross increase in taxes and that we do not want to lower taxes, I must say to you, Mr, that whoever gave me a lot of taxes! Do you not think it would be much more pleasant for me to be here saying that we would put all taxes at 2010 levels or before the last increase? Oh, my God! No one would like more than me, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u71	So why don't you just get it done here?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u72	Only we have responsibility; we cannot or must not promise the Portuguese what cannot be fulfilled. The honourable Member says it's less than one room, as if he said it wasn't worth it. The PCP, perhaps, does not think it's worth moving, but it's what can be responsibly returned, it's what affects the largest number of workers and, of course, it's what we understand it can be returned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u73	Choose the economic groups more appropriately!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u74	Mr President, this will add up to other income recoverys, surely for many families it will be useful and effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u75	We have no doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u76	It's little, it's what can be now and that has to be sustained, it has to be continued.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u77	What about the IRS rates?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u78	Mr. Paulo Sá asks why the IRS rate is not reduced and instead comes down the IRC and says I have to explain. Mr President, we have been explaining this since we presented and approved the reform of the IRC — indeed, at the time, with the support of the Socialist Party — but I do not mind explaining anything again. Mr President, companies need support to strengthen competitiveness, because it is the companies that create jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u79	If people have more purchasing power, companies benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u80	It's no use lowering taxes to families if they don't have income. It only pays taxes who have income and, therefore, we have to have companies that create jobs so that people can have income and then we can lower taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u81	People stay for later!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u82	And the sequence, Mr President, must be this in order to have sustained growth. Mr Cabrita says that this is a strange debate, because we are proposing things for the next four years. I see nothing strange in the debate, Mr President. We are fulfilling an obligation and we are presenting ourselves before the Portuguese before a new government cycle, with responsibility, frankness, openness, complete transparency, so that the Portuguese can evaluate what we have seen. In fact, he mentioned more than once UTAO, but I would suggest that, in relation to the scenario and the accounts he made, the Socialist Party would make them more detailed and, for example, asked UTAO or the Council of Public Finance to make such an assessment and whether the scenario of the PS is consistent or not. Finally, a more appropriate comparison could already be made with what you are doing in relation to the Stability Programme. He asked at some point how he could welcome a programme that placed GDP in 2009 at a value of 2001. And I ask: how can you congratulate your party on having been in government much of these 15 years and GDP has grown 0, 6 % a year, when it all grew back, Mr? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] How is it possible to welcome this? It's just that if GDP was 15 years old, it's because in the 13 years that you were in government, you didn't grow it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u83	GDP grew by 2, 4 % in 2007, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u84	That's the truth! More, they now propose exactly the same recipe and promise again results that are not reachable. The Portuguese have already experienced, Mr Commissioner, and they do not deserve to experience the same recipe again, which leads to disaster. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u85	We are now moving to the stage of presenting the draft resolutions that I have already identified. First of all, Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The Troika Programme formally ended last May, but the Government intends to perpetuate the policy of exploitation and impoverishment. The Government wants to continue to confiscate wages and pensions, to continue to attack public services and social functions of the State, health, education and social security. It wants to continue to impose a brutal tax draw on workers'and the people's incomes while favouring large national and transnational capital through public debt, privatization, public-private partnerships, tax benefits and the reduction of the IRC rate. The Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, presented by the Government, clearly show that Portugal has not recovered its sovereignty nor is it no longer under protection. on the contrary, the mechanisms in force under the so-called economic governance, coupled with the budgetary treaty, maintain and deepen the submission of our country to the requirements of the European Union and the power directory commanded by Germany. The government has deceived the Portuguese! He said austerity measures were temporary, which would last only as long as the Troika Programme lasted, but now he wants to extend them at least until 2019. With this policy, the government wants to condemn Portugal to social and civilizational regression, or condemn the Portuguese people to impoverishment. The Government has a policy of two pesos and two measures. He said he did not have the budget to pay back to the workers and the people what he had taken them in the last few years, but had the budget to reduce, for six consecutive years, the tax rate that affects business profits and to eliminate the contribution on the energy sector. For the big capital, for the gentlemen of the money, only facilities! For the workers, for the people, the continuation of the sacrifices! The PS also announced yesterday its intention to pursue the same assumptions as the policy that led the country to the current disaster and decline situation. Not only does it not break with this policy on the right as it is proposed to keep it with this or that right regarding the pace and how it is being achieved. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Today the CFP presents an alternative to the policy of exploitation, impoverishment and national disaster. Where the Government proposes the continuation of the transfer of wealth to large capital through more than EUR 8 billion per year of public debt interest, the CFP proposes the renegotiation of that debt within time, interest and amount, significantly reducing its annual charges. Where the Government proposes the continuation of submission to the demands of the European Union, the CFP proposes the release of Portugal from the budgetary Treaty and the mechanisms of so-called economic governance to recover and affirm national sovereignty. Where the Government proposes the confiscation of wages and pensions, the CFP proposes the recovery of labour and workers. Where the Government proposes the reconfiguration of the State, placing it even more at the service of the great economic interests, the CFP proposes the defence of public services and the social functions of the State. Where the Government proposes the continuation of privatization policy, the CFP proposes the recovery of public control of the basic and strategic sectors of our economy. Where the Government proposes the continuation and deepening of a fiscal policy for the promotion of large capital, the CFP proposes the relief of the tax burden on workers and the people, as well as on micro and small enterprises. The solutions presented by the PCP are those that the country needs. They are solutions that serve the interests of the workers and the people! They are solutions that guarantee economic and social development and open prospects for a better future! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u87	You now have the floor to present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has spent four years talking about 'positive signs', 'economic miracles' and 'light at the bottom of the tunnel', but the fact is that today, four years later, the Portuguese are still waiting. And with this government, waiting for such signs, for such miracles and for such light, it is like waiting for the train to stop the bus. Just like the train that does not stop the bus, the solutions for the country do not go through the stability programme that the government presents. It is a true « valley of deceit», as others have been in the past. It is to refer to the future resolution of the problems that this government has not only managed to solve, as it has made them worse over the past four years. And, in the face of the failure of its policies, the PSD/CDS-PP government now promises to solve the problems, but when it is not here. It's weird, but that's it. One more mistake, like others in the past, because this government has repeatedly deceived the Portuguese. And one of the most blatant examples was the hope that, by the end of the Troika Programme, Portugal would regain its sovereignty and that many of the sacrifices imposed would have its end there. But, as we see, none of this happened. Another mistake was the idea that the government has always tried to get through, that there were no financial resources and that, therefore, it was always necessary to cut, cut and cut. The fact is that these financial resources exist, but the problem is that they have always been channelled to the large economic and financial groups, which, in the midst of periods of crisis and enormous sacrifices imposed on the people, have been able to remain permanently safeguarded, reaching gross profits, while the Portuguese families were experiencing harsh material deprivation. The concentration of wealth in a minority was the option of this PSD government / CDS-PP, which soon left aside any idea of social justice. And that is how the government hypothesized economic growth, which has generated a very worrying level of impoverishment in the country, which has strangled the creation of real employment and has led thousands and thousands of young people to emigrate. At the same time, public debt, which was intended to combat and on behalf of which sacrifices were imposed, has not ceased to grow. Portugal pays, in debt charges, anything like 7 to 8 billion euros a year. A debt which, in terms of which it is equationed, does not allow us to create the conditions for its payment. That is why the Greens continue to defend their renegotiation as a starting point for us to launch a real economic growth option, to generate the wealth that we are not producing and thus create the conditions for the payment of debt. Our country has all the conditions to promote economic growth based on sustainable development, where the economic component is added to the social and environmental component, with a productive activity of quality and respect for our natural resources and heritage. We know that the policies of this government are not inevitable, but an effective option between existing alternatives. We also know that this option has been absolutely damaging to the country and that it is an option linked to an ideological vision that puts the State at the service of the great economic and financial interests and that it seeks to reduce the state to a minimum for the general population, with the objective of privatizing all sectors, even the most strategic and fundamental. And because we are sure that the country will continue to lose a lot of these political options, brought now in the Stability Programme and in the National Reform Programme presented by the Government, The Greens today bring to discussion a set of 20 concrete proposals to ensure a development path in Portugal, with justice and equality. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u89	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members in 2010, one year after an expensive election campaign at the expense of the Portuguese, the Socialist Government presented the following results: a record state deficit of 11, 2 % and an economic growth forecast for 2011 of 0, 2 %, then reviewed by PS itself to 0, 9 %, and which actually came to be a 1, 8 % recession. This reality, as a result of structural problems in our economy, aggravated by the spending policies of the PS and the international context, has caused the country's financial failure, the need for an external rescue, the loss of financial autonomy in Portugal and the application of a hard stability programme that so many sacrifices required of the Portuguese people. The application of this programme, despite the residual effect and the social costs inherent in it, has achieved its objective: to contribute to a fiscal consolidation, already with the perimeter of the enlarged State, to the recovery of external credibility - see the level of interest rates of national debt, when others record their worsening in these days, for a sustainable recovery of economic growth and for convergence with our European partners. It is therefore in a substantially different context from that of the beginning of the mandate that the Government presents to us a proposal for a Stability Programme and a National Reform Programme. Without calling into question the defined approach, the progress achieved, either at the level of budgetary consolidation or at the level of economic growth, the Government can now propose the gradual removal of the extraordinary measures previously taken, the maintenance of business tax reduction commitments, ensuring predictability for investors, strengthening social equity and solidarity measures to the most disadvantaged. In the months of elections, some could expect the presentation of an perhaps more appealing programme for voters. But that's not our way of being. The reality is what it is. People already know us and know that we would never present an incoherent program, unrealistic with the country's capabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u91	There's been four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u92	I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reality is that we have resumed a course of economic growth, the trend of unemployment is decreasing, Portugal, after a clean exit of the rescue in 2014, in which many did not believe, will leave the procedure due to excessive deficit in 2015. Public officials, pensioners, the generality of families is already recovering purchasing power. It is time to consolidate the achieved and enhance a new phase for our country. That is why it was precisely irresponsible for us to enter a great feast, selling illusions that would make us very expensive. The Portuguese, victims of three State financial collapses since 25 April, do not deserve a new rescue, and it is not by this majority that bankruptcy or troika will return to Portugal. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u93	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of a reality confirmed by independent national and international bodies that shows the improvement of the main macroeconomic aggregates of Portugal, which, in fact, the socialist leader had already acknowledged, comes the PS wants to take advantage of the results achieved with the same revenue from its previous governments — spending, spending, having a big party and then someone will have to pay. Thus, as an alternative to the government strategy, he presented a proposal promising everything: tax reduction in IRS, VAT, TSU, IMI, wage increases, career increases in Public Administration, social benefits increases, everything is promised. Of course, they exchange increases and proper spending for uncertain alternatives, but they argue that this is not unrealistic, because government growth forecasts, once called optimistic ones, are conservative and economic growth will pay the whole bill. Mrs. Socialist Members, will it be the same economic growth that, before, the PS guarantees to pay the PPPs, the School Park, the TGV and the new Lisbon airport, but which in practice led us to bankruptcy and so many sacrifices? Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, there is a Portuguese saying that applies well to this PS : « when the alms is great, the poor distrust». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. PS Members, so you can understand: « when the alms is great, the poor distrust! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Portuguese may not be particularly happy with the fact that the Government's strategy points to a gradual removal of the extraordinary measures resulting from the financial collapse of the country. But the Portuguese are much more suspicious of those who in 2009 gave everything to withdraw after the elections and who now promise to lead us to a new financial collapse and to the consequent role of new sacrifices to the Portuguese. [[Protests from PS Ferro Rodrigues.]] Of course, the leader of the PS, with the experience of having been number two of the Socialist Government that sank the country, seeing so much promise from its economists—of course having in memory the recent Greek election, with the idols of some socialists caviar promise everything, but they will lead the country to the rescue—, he hastened to interrupt his silence to say that, after all, this is only a proposal, it is not a bible, so now the suggestions of these economists should be examined before the role of promises be realized by the PS next June. That's amazing, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that Portugal continues to face problems. The level of unemployment is high, there are still serious social asymmetries, nobody denies them, but it is not with strategies defeated by history or selling illusions that these weaknesses are overcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u95	The future Portugal faces is challenging. in a sea full of dangers, it is necessary to keep the road to reach the desired land. The « end of the storms» was overcome and became the « end of the good hope ». We should not listen to the « old men of the Restello », nor fear the « Adamastor. The future is Portuguese, and it is with confidence that we should congratulate the Government and the Portuguese on the results achieved, and above all, on the courage to turn the page into a sustainable strategy for economic and social progress. The Government can have the support of this parliamentary majority and we are convinced that it can count on the support of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u96	Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the documents of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme presented by the Government. This is a privileged moment for us to discuss our collective future and the different options that place Portugal and Portuguese. But, first of all, it is also a moment of evaluation of a course and a political option that was the Government of the PSD majority / CDS, a policy that responded to a crisis with its worsening, a policy that brought back the Product more than 10 years, employment more than 15 years and investment more than a quarter of a century. But at a time when the government presents its forecasts for the future, which, curiously, and as we know, corresponds to the next legislation, we need a little deeper and detailed confrontation, and this has to be the evaluation of the main results of this government compared with those proposed by this government and this majority for just under four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Stay, benched by the majority, I will not confront you with that already mythical incarnation of Rabbit Steps before votes, without increases of taxes, no cuts of wages, no cuts of pensions and that would recover Portugal. I spare you that — which can only be for you — painful exercise. What I bring you here is the memory of the 2011 Budget Strategy Document (DEO),...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u99	... prepared and presented in August 2011 by the Government of this majority, the Government sitting at that bench today. The Government therefore considered that the economic recovery would start in 2013 and that GDP would be around EUR 183 billion in 2011 in 2015. This was the estimate, the government's commitment. For today, the forecasts of the same Government, of the same majority, of the same Prime Minister for GDP, for this year, the year 2015 will be EUR 170 billion, minus EUR 3000 million, minus 7% of GDP. This is the dimension of your failure, the dimension of your lack of credibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let's look at the job in the same document. The estimate of that guarantee to the country a volume of employment of 4, 8 million in 2015 ; today's estimate of the same Government and the same Prime Minister, is EUR 4, 5 million for the same year, less than 300 000 jobs than was the goal of your Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat: there are fewer than 300 000 jobs! This is the dimension of your failure, the dimension of your lack of credibility! And what about the deficit in public accounts? It then provided for the 2015 WD, the responsibility of this government, a nearly balance in the accounts in 2015, a deficit of 0, 5 % of GDP compared with the forecast, which, moreover, few accompany 2, 7 % of deficit for the current year. And the same is said of the debt, which was claimed to be achieved, is less than 102 % in 2015 — where is it going! Gross differences, in view of the reality we live today. That is the dimension of your failure, the dimension of your lack of credibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this reminder of your commitments, let us then look at the forecasts that this government is committed to for 2019. After the alleged success of the government these four years, that the government does not tire of propaganda, the best that the Coelho Pass Government has to propose to the Portuguese are goals and objectives in everything identical to those promised in 2011 for the end of the legislation that now ends in 2015. I repeat, to leave no doubt: the government claims that the adjustment was a success, but, in the fundamental variables, the objectives that it now sets for 2019 are, some of them, less than what they promised four years ago for this year of 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because this is an important issue, let us see with a little more detail: the GDP planned for 2015 will then only be reached in 2019, the real employment will be 140 000 jobs below what was expected to be achieved in 2015 — than the government did before, not the opposition. The government does not accept this failure, but these figures now presented in the Stability Programme are the confirmation of the same failure. They call for the confidence of the Portuguese to have a second chance and to achieve the same objectives that have failed with the same recipe that has already failed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What better proof of failure, failure of four years of wrong policies, of inability to correct mistakes? Who can believe in a government that essentially proposes, by 2019, what had already promised by 2015? Who can believe in a government that now promises where it has failed and that does so insist on the policies that underpin that failure? [[P.S.'s applause.]] What makes this commitment, extending, until the end of the next Parliament, the extraordinary restrictive measures which have been designed for the financial assistance programme and which insists on further deeply restrictive measures, such as the cut-off of paid pensions, whatever way they resolve to invent and which have not now had the courage to present?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u100	He's talking about 2009!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u101	No, Mrs. Finance Minister, we're not talking about coherence, we're talking about inability to take on the failure and lack of courage to correct it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not coherence, but political despair of those who present as the only quality, or as the highest quality, theimosia. Leaning in a mistake is not a virtue, it is simply the image of failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal demands another way and another policy. A path of confidence in the country's ability to halt a cycle of impoverishment, emigration and decapitalization. A path that has, in the recovery of family income, a decisive option for the short term. Families strangled by tax burden and indebtedness, exhausted by their capacity for saving and blocked by uncertainty are both a brake and growth, or the creation of an environment conducive to modernization. A faster and more predictable recovery of income is a key option for the Socialist Party. A path of confidence in the ability of companies to respond clearly to positive incentives in their modernisation, but also to affirm their ability to create more stable and lasting jobs. And the stimuli must come from stronger and more targeted tax incentives, from administrative simplification, from the stronger link between education, science and public innovation centres with private investment. Trust in the ability to assert policies that are effective in reducing poverty and inequality, through social minimums aimed at the poorest, the elderly, children and precarious workers, those who were most severely placed in a destiny of exclusion and hopelessness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Trust in the stability of the Public Administration and its ability to create centres of competence that restore the credibility of public services and that are able to integrate, with rigor but with ambition, a new generation of qualified frameworks, a part of those who today only have on the border the only entry into active life. Trust in the ability to defend the social state, knowing that the true and decisive weapon to support it lies in the ability to generate lasting and quality jobs. These are the paths that the PS proposes, these are the paths that are proposed to us in an exercise of study and simulation of alternative economic policies that, with courage, we decided to carry out. An exercise of transparency and credibility, innovative and serious, to say that a different path is possible, that there are no mandatory policies and no alternatives. And we can say that this alternative path exists, but without claiming that it is not an easy path, it is not a risk-free path, that there is no solution in our hand to bring the country to convergence and development, but also to affirm, in Portugal and in the European Union, that rigour must today be compatible with hope, with development and with dignity,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to assert that a government that cannot fight in a balanced way against all excessive deficits cannot govern a country. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] A social deficit of 11 % of unemployment cannot be compatible with a budget surplus. This is the proposal expressed in the stability programme of this government and which best represents the sending with which this majority looks at our challenges, the political choices and the model for our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, the path of a huge social deficit to ensure the promise of a budgetary balance, is not a path of equity, it is not a path of justice, it is not even a path of humanism. It is a path that you have and will be abandoned. for the future of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u102	Mr President, you have three requests for clarification. Do you intend to answer one to one or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u103	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u104	To make requests for clarification, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u105	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, first of all I greet you for your physical restoration, which I congratulate. Going directly to the questions, you have just produced an intervention in which you speak of lack of credibility, lack of seriousness, incoherence and alternative paths. So let us talk about the coherence, seriousness and credibility of the alternative paths that you see. Ex.as, and V. Ex.a in particular, bring in document One Decade for Portugal. Mr President, there is a concept that looks like a ghost in this document. VV. Ex.s don't mention it, VV. For example, they find it inappropriate, but it is there and it is called « ceiling of social security contributions».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u107	I know VV. They are ashamed to refer to this, even to a sacrilege, a blasphemy to refer to the ceiling. And you, in particular, have good reasons for this, because, in November 2006, I recall, V. Exa, in this plenary on the ceiling: « I support the financial balance of social security, it is not a socially fair proposal and it is not even a viable proposal ». Mr President, is it now fair, viable and no longer corroborating the social security system? Or is it still running? [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr. João Galamba will need a little lesson and I will end up giving it to him. [[PSD laughter.]] What is, technically, the ceiling? [[PS protests.]] Well, you have to listen, otherwise I can't teach the lesson. The ceiling today is for today's social security contributors to cut into contributions to cut, within a few years, in benefits and pensions. That's VV. They do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u108	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u109	For 2016, 2017 and 2018, VV. They say: « taxpayers pay less for social security, they pay less than billions, but they already know that from 2021 onwards they will also have cuts in pensions ». This is called « ceiling».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u110	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u111	It's the ceiling, according to Antonio Costa. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u112	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u113	Mr President, it was really the question of the lesson that took me a while longer, but I'm done. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u114	I gave him the word not to give a lesson, but to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u115	And I will ask the question, Mr. President. Well, Mr, the question is that capping requires sustainability of social security. The question that I am asking is this: in three years, you make a colossal rubble in social security, EUR 3200 million, and I find no explanation—but I am still ignorant there, you will have to explain to me how I put 3200 million in social security so as not to cause a cut in pensions, currently in payment. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u116	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u117	Yes, including current pensioners, because this system cuts the pension payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u118	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u119	Secondly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u120	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u121	And I'm done, Mr. President. Secondly, the other question that I ask you is this: after all, what will be the cut-off of pensions in the future? Yeah, because there's gonna be a pension cut in the future! Mr President, I conclude by saying the following: it is true that this document is not a Bible; it is true that the authors of this document, particularly Mr Vieira da Silva, is not an apostle, but it gives me the feeling that Dr. António Costa is a prophet. A prophet of woe, you can see it! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u122	I would like to say to the House that, even today, we have had the opportunity at the Conference of Leaders to make an effort to respect the times that are considered. Thank you very much. Members could speak in order to consider the times at their disposal. It is a consideration for your colleagues and a consideration for the Bureau. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u123	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, I had brought here some perplexities and some doubts that the presentation of the PS document yesterday aroused me, but I confess that, after his intervention, I was with more perplexity. I was hoping that after months of studying and preparing this document, the PS would have had its great opportunity today to come forward with the famous alternative that they have been using as propaganda for months, but, Mr President, after all, it has not passed a day and you already want to escape the discussion, they are already ashamed of what they have presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u125	I really think it's extraordinary! Truly extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u126	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u127	But since the PS didn't want to talk about it, Mr.Sergeor will forgive me, but I also don't want to go home with my doubts and therefore I will ask you these questions because, in fact, they make sense and I have no answer for them, even after I have read the document. The first relates to the proposals they make in relation to the TSU. I realized that, with regard to the problem of the current sustainability of social security and that it is already felt next year, you want to realize that it does not exist. So, as far as this is concerned, I have no doubt, I already realized that the tactic is to realize that it does not exist. If, by any chance, one day they had the opportunity to put your theories into practice, I would like to see how we would pay the pensions next year. More: the PS goes a little further and makes concrete proposals about the TSU, one side of the workers, another side of the employers. In other words, it is the so-called 'compulsory ceiling', but I would say that it is more 'we spend more now and then we see how we solve the problem', that is, we spend more now and then we have to receive less pensions in the future. It's just that there's a slight problem here, sir. It is that the contributions now serve to pay the pensions now and, therefore, if you are going to have a rumbe in the revenue next year, you have to explain how you will pay the pensions next year. And that is simply not explained. from the point of view of revenue, Mr President. Members say: Social IRC — EUR 100 million. I realized that this has to do with the failure to lower the IRC rate, which you, in fact, have signed. But let's get off the assumption that they're not going to comply with what they've signed. Mr. Member, in 2016, we will be charging the 2015 IRC, as you well know. I would like to know where you are going to look for these EUR 100 million because even if you keep the rate, this effect is only felt in the following year, not in 2016, but in 2017. Secondly, successive tax. As far as I can see, EUR 100 million is forecast.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u128	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u129	And I shall conclude, Mr President, with the same tolerance that you gave to the previous speakers. But I'm sure I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u130	A forced tolerance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u131	Of course, Mr. President. I thank you in advance. the last time the successive tax was levied in Portugal, in the years 2002 or 2003, the revenue was precisely that of EUR 100 million. I would like to know how it is possible, now that you propose only to collect inheritances in excess of EUR 1 million, we have exactly the same recipe as we had when all the inheritances were collected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u132	Mr Nuno Magalhães ( CDS-PP ) : — Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u133	Or is this for 'English to see' and, in reality, the successive tax is to be returned in relation to all inheritances? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, the salary supplement for workers. I would like to ask and see the question clarified — because it refers to 440 000 workers and this includes workers on their own and also workers on behalf of others — about whether we are planning this supplement only for workers on behalf of others or also for self-employed people, because, if it is for both types of workers, I believe, honourable Member, that the value it is calculated is very, very, very undervalued and we should talk about a very much higher amount. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u134	Mr Fernando Virgílio Macedo has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Vieira da Silva, yesterday, we attended the presentation of the Socialist Party's macroeconomic scenario for the period 2015 - 2019. A first word for the exit of the state of denial by the Socialist Party regarding the existence of sustained economic growth in Portugal. in this macroeconomic scenario, it is explicitly recognized that in Portugal there is economic growth and that Portugal will grow in the coming years, i.e. that this economic growth is neither mirage nor illusion. Certainly, Mr Vieira da Silva acknowledges that this economic growth can only be the result of the work done by the Government of Portugal in recent years. But in this document, it is also very visible the usual electoral character of the Socialist Party in pre-election periods, promising to give everything to everyone, and quickly. Basically, in this document, the PS intends to lower public revenue, increase expenditure, maintain targets for deficit and, in parallel, make a strong investment increase and reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u136	It's the return to the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u137	If that is possible, Mr President, and we all know that it is not, the PS had really discovered the Holy Grail of public finances.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u138	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u139	I don't think that happened. We all remember the past, when the PS tried to make us believe the same regarding investment in public works, i.e. that it was possible to do public works without money, without costs for taxpayers and without costs for the user. Today, we know that this is not possible today, the Portuguese taxpayers are paying very much the expense of the Socialist Party in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u140	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u141	But, Mr Vieira da Silva, my question is very simple: do you really believe in this real budgetary illusion that was made yesterday, in that presentation, or do you think it was another chapter of the usual electoralism of the Socialist Party, on the eve of elections? Oh, my God! Does the honourable Member think that it is rational to exchange a prudent budgetary strategy, such as the one presented here in the Stability Programme, by this Government, for a speculative strategy, which bets on creating expenditure, generating immediate budgetary responsibilities which may eventually come or not be compensated with future revenues that no one can foresee? Oh, my God! Mr President, we are living times of responsibility, we cannot return to time of expenditure, experimentalism, irresponsibility. The Portuguese will certainly not be available to waste the sacrifices that have been made in the last three and a half years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u142	To reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr Adam Silva, I am grateful for the words you have spoken to me, but your speech is the most extraordinary case of political debate today. It is that in all the political messages and in all the political proposals in the document of the macroeconomic scenario that was presented yesterday by the Socialist Party was to find something that was not there. It was your windmill! The ceiling is not there, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u144	No, he's not! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u145	There's no ceiling there and I'll explain why. I do not intend to teach anyone, nor am I sure that you are available to hear a lesson. That is why I am going to tell you that what has contributed most to the degradation of future pensions in recent times in Portugal were two phenomena: the destruction of hundreds of thousands of jobs...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u146	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u147	... and the breakdown of the value of wages present in Portuguese society. And this can be loved! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the Socialist Party's proposal does is a different thing: to consider that, in this exceptional situation of difficulty in creating jobs, there is an economic stimulus for those Portuguese who have much difficulty in finding another economic stimulus to recover their income. And, of course, we have a deep conviction that the economic effect of this strategy will be positive, also for social security. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I do not want to escape from the discussion of any of your points, the honourable Member is that she wanted to escape from the discussion of the document that is today, here, in appreciation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that the honourable Member did not have the capacity to deny any of the words I said in the gallery about the lack of credibility of the exercise presented here,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... where it reproduces the commitments it had already made in 2011, and failed them all. Why won't you fail now if you've failed in the past? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u149	But let me tell you, Madam Member, that the exercise that the PS did was a serious exercise for which it invited a set of economists, mostly not members of the PS, to study the simulation of macroeconomic developments and a set of measures. The honourable Member mentioned some of them and all go in order to create better conditions for development and job creation. It is in all these measures that this exercise has to be evaluated. But we will have all the time—and now I do not have it, as it is obvious—to discuss the single social rate and the successive tax. So we do not have time to discuss government measures, because they simply do not exist! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u151	In fact, there is even one, 600 million euros, which is in the accounts, but is not in the political programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u153	Are you going to answer, or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u154	Mr. Virgílio Macedo, I don't know what you're saying, because you didn't ask me any questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u155	Ah, don't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u156	What is true is that the macroeconomic policy strategy that was presented yesterday is a coherent, credible, open and transparent strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u157	But are you going to explain, or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u158	in it it is proposed a stimulus to families, a stimulus to businesses, to recover the Portuguese economy and so that growth can, yes, be based on solid bases and not on projections that, such as those made in 2011 by the government, will inevitably fail for 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u159	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, now strengthened with Mr Vice-President-Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Not by chance, the presence of Mr Vice-President-Minister allows us to ask a number of questions which, otherwise, we have seen that they would not be answered by the Minister of State and Finance. Mr. Vice-First Minister, in another incarnation, leader of the taxpayer's party and pensioner's party, now has at least the possibility to explain two things: on the one hand, as part of a government that has submitted a document that says that in 2020 there will be more taxes on the country than there was in 2010, when, clearly, there was a tax confiscation, and on the other hand, as it raised measures concerning TSU that the same government, two years ago, said that they were unacceptable, more than Mr. Vice-First Minister, two years ago, said they were unacceptable. These questions are therefore essential. We know that this Stability Programme, which has forgotten growth, is more of the same: more of the same austerity, even with other names, though with some other ways. But we know, above all, that this Stability Programme is done on the basis of a normality that is unacceptable: the normality of ill-being in health, with public services in the disarray; the normality of ill-being in education, where, increasingly, young people have difficulties in studying; normality in unemployment and job destruction, since, at the end of 2019 - the government tells us - we will not, at least, recover the jobs lost over these four years of term, or in detail, we will not even get half of what this government has destroyed. In addition to all this, we will be on top of the huge increase in taxes, ensuring that it continues to knock on the door of those who work, and we will still have the unsustainableness of social security, to be absolutely strengthened not only by unemployment and the lack of job creation, but also by a deliberate decapitalisation that this government wants to make with the changes in the TSU. These are the policies that this government has brought into the Stability Programme, not because there are no alternatives, because they exist, but because the government does not want to create any alternatives. It does not want to move in the interests of the large economic groups, even if it lowers the IRC, it does not want to move in the interests of the millions of EDP — to the millions of EDP, see well, it is still given a tax brokerage, with the cut to half of the surcharge, while the coughs of families continue to pay the huge increase in taxes. This is the choice of the government, the two pesos and the two measures of a government that say they have the full funds, when it is to cut taxes to large economic groups, to those who have the millions in our country, but has the empty funds and has the fill at the expense of those who work, wages and pensions. In fact, I'd like to know where this incarnation of Paulo Portas is going, the former party leader of the taxpayer and pensioner's party, because neither the CDS nor this government think, even, of taxpayers and pensioners in other ways than to be cut. Cut, cut, cut! Bleeding, bleeding, bleeding! Sacrifice, sacrifice, sacrifice! This has been the case in the past. This is the case today, and with this document, we are told that it will be the case in the future. That's what we don't accept! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u161	Also for an intervention, Mr Vice-First Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate follows a commitment from the European States to deliver their reform plans and stability programmes until 30 April. It is not, therefore, a Portuguese originality, an effort for greater economic coordination in a Europe which was, for a few years, too surprised by the violent financial crisis. Original, but not meritorious, it would be Portugal not to present its plans. That was what happened while we were in the troika regime, because the nations were left out under embarrassment. This debate, by itself, is a sign that Portugal has regained its freedom...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u163	Oh, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u164	...and make its choices within the framework of the rules we share in the European Union. I welcome the fact that the Socialist Party has presented its ideas before telling you that its reading is closer to an instability programme than a stability programme. In any case, the comparison between models and policies is one of the characteristics of active citizenship to be able to debate the purposes, the means, the accounts and the results. I would begin by saying that the somewhat miraculous plan of the Socialist Party is only presentable in itself, because the starting point is much better than the Socialist Party has ever admitted. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I don't want to be unfair and I must therefore make a correction. What Dr. António Costa said, well, to the Chinese now confesses to the Portuguese: we passed the 2011 bankruptcy and we passed the recession as soon as early as 2014. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The options we have in front are no longer between the bad and the bad, they are between a safe recovery and a very serious risk of a new spill. There is a second comment that needs to be made, at the time the Socialist Party places the letters on the table. It always seemed strange to me why the new Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, with the extended legitimacy given to him by the primary elections, did not appear to the country recognizing that the PS government made mistakes that led to the call of the troika, the austerity policy and its painful consequences, such as who says: "We learn the lesson and offer assurance that we will not repeat these mistakes". The deep reason lies in the plan presented yesterday. The PS is prepared to increase the deficit again, to overlook the debt again. The PS again believes that growth is mainly made by public investment and consumption. PS ignores labour and fiscal competitiveness as if it were possible to ignore the world around us. The PS is delivered and delivered to the country in the hands of guaranteed expenses and revenue only possible. The model is too much like what led to the 2009 illusion and the 2011 tragedy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is recalled that in order to win the 2009 elections, the PS promised many, for example, to public officials. After the vote they were: freezings and cuts that only this year begin to be removed. And 2011 still has too many recent facts. The Portuguese remember the denial, until the eve, of a monstrous debt and a frightening deficit in the absence of an illuminating and humble rectification, but also with courage, how can we not be suspicious of the plan that the PS presented yesterday, if the deficit fires again and the debt remains 10 points above what the government, with realism, can propose to the country? Oh, my God! Perhaps some PS electoral magician has convinced the party that the Portuguese do not link to the deficit or debt. I do not think it is to understand what has happened in Portuguese society in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u165	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u166	The Portuguese paid very much, in taxes and unemployment, the scarce rigour in the deficit and the enormous indebtedness of the State. Returning to the same causes to live the same pains is not a reasonable option. Let's compare what government and PS models guarantee, or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u167	Government model? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u168	What is the model of the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u169	This majority has received a country with troika and with the Portuguese has released the country of troika; we have received a country with excessive deficit and with the Portuguese we will end with their procedure, which still affects us, for example, ratings or still threatens us, for example, with economic sanctions; we have received a country on the way to recession, we have today a country with growth. We will phase down the IRS and IRC and gradually restore the salaries of the Public Administration. We do not put at risk the credibility gained, and we do not want Portugal to return to the radar of countries with problems and problems. The PS fires the deficit and does not control the debt, leaves us in excessive deficit and subject to its threats. It is the simplest way to return to the troika, to austerity and to sacrifice. Your plan of promises has not only the risk of disappointment, it contains the risk of becoming another memorandum of understanding in which each promise becomes a restriction. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Don't say that everything is a repetition of the past. Some absolution of the present and a non-small dose of mystery for the future contains the socialist plan. For that reason, the PS has just adhered to the thesis that complete rests are not possible at a time only in certain areas of public expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u170	It's for the benefit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u171	In other words, the PS, when adopting gradualism in these areas, deviates from the very excessive doctrine that the PS itself made for a long time from the decisions of the Constitutional Court. For future registration, the PS is willing to cause the greatest ever hole in social security and in the General Board of Submissions. [[PS laughter.]] Continuing the system to be distributed, the experimentalism of aggressive and systematic reductions of TSU, both in capital and at work, endangers the sustainability of the current pensions that have to be paid on time by the contributions of current workers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, the mistake of non-selective social policies. For example, returning to the minimum income as he was before is returning to the permeability of the abuses in this benefit. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u172	Even OECD recommends it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u173	The choir doesn't make a policy, it just makes noise!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u174	But it's a reminder!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u175	I would like to thank you for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen. Please continue, Mr. Vice-First Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u176	Or, for example, the return to ideological fiscal policies, leaving, in fact, "knockouted" its historical leaders. António José Seguro realized the importance of reducing IRC and, in fact, since he began to come down the IRC, he began to increase investment. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] Antonio Guterres concluded the first agreement to defend the successive tax and called himself « the stupidest tax in the world». VV. Ex.as decide, now, to worsen the IRC and on the way will restore the IMT, old sisa, and a succession that taxes the property and deposits. They turn away from moderate and familiar pragmatism to adhere to untested experiences on new taxes. Something tells me that much of this will end up in very similar operational confusions with the poor tourist and airport rates of the former President of the Lisbon Chamber. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] More important than anything else: your path to creating jobs will keep Portugal's investment away for labour reasons and tax reasons. It is therefore risky to be a poison against job creation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In favour of the Government is credibility. We faced the troika cycle that we had not created, but we won it; we laid the foundations for a cycle of prosperity that all, in a realistic way, can benefit. In favour of the Socialist Party there is some consistency in the error: the troika took us once and, if they gave you a mandate, the troika would take us a second time! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u177	Mr Ferro Rodrigues has the floor for one speech, although he does not have much time. Let's count on the tolerance we had before.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u178	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues ( PS ) : — Mr. President, Mr. Vice-First Minister, welcome to the political debate in this Parliament, because these issues are technical but they are also political. Mr Vice Prime Minister has said a number of things I disagree with, as he estimates. He said firstly that it is due to an excellent starting situation that the PS was able to do the exercise that he showed yesterday. Don't! It is precisely the opposite: it is because we are in an emergency, in terms of unemployment, in terms of emigration, in terms of investment, in terms of growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, he spoke about the model of the government and the model of the PS. The PS has a model and is available for testing at any time. The government has no model at all, only intentions and objectives, which it has not proved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Thirdly, Mr. Vice-First Minister, bring fear, bring always the question of 2011 and the troika is a huge sign of weakness on your side and Mr. Prime Minister! You have no other argument but that! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, Mr Vice-First Minister, let us talk about concrete things: in November 2010 you, together with the PSD and other parties, approved here in Parliament increases in deficits worth EUR 2100 million to try to challenge the State budget for Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u179	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u180	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues ( PS ) : — Mr. Vice-Primeiro-Minister, neither does he fail to be pleased to come to speak in the ideology of taxes. Do you want a greater ideological sign than you would have lowered the IRC, mainly benefiting large companies, without any investment consequences, and then come to talk about the successive tax, which is exactly, as the PS places it, of the fairest taxes to allow equal opportunities and social equity? Oh, my God! You're on the defensive. In fact, that is what Mr. Vice-First Minister has shown to have come here. Mr. Vice-First Minister came here not to defend the government, not to defend the Government Programme, but to attack the PS. Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for coming here to do us that favor! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u181	I thank the honourable Member for having contained himself in his speech. Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: At the end of this debate, on the Stability Programme and the reform plan, we can draw three conclusions. The first is that there is indeed a clear economic growth strategy on the part of this Government, which ensures the resumption of the Portuguese standard of living, the sustainability of future generations and the consolidation of public accounts without jeopardizing our obligations with regard to the budgetary treaty and keeping Portugal out of excessive deficits. The second conclusion is that the Socialist Party clearly recognises that it had disastrous management when it was ahead of the destinations of this country, which had a government that was negligent to all of us. Mr Vieira da Silva said that this government has failed. Now, if we evaluate the performance of a government from the moment it sits in the seat of power and begins to govern until it leaves, I cannot adjective the state in which they left the country, after entering 2005 and leaving in 2011. Therefore, you have failed in turn! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The third conclusion is that only this majority recognizes all the effort that the Portuguese have made, all the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made for a better country and so that the following generations can have a more sustainable future. Only this majority recognizes that this effort should not be wasted by electoral policies, such as pushing forward what is not intended to be paid today and, above all, not making mistakes that have led us to an external rescue. We know that the Socialist Party has never assumed its responsibility in the disqualification in which Portugal fell. We know that we never wanted to take this responsibility publicly, but today we hoped that it would assume greater responsibility in the proposals it presented, that it would not show the Portuguese that the way that they want to follow was what led us to an external rescue or the coming of the troika. The Portuguese deserve it, and that is what they expect of us, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It can't be said that we have millions to give to the Portuguese. The respect they demand of us is to know what the cost will be, what the sacrifice of these millions will be, and that you have not yet explained to the Portuguese, but, with the document being debated and with this government, all Portuguese know how much it costs each of the proposals. We're not afraid to take on the truth. Let's not hide future charges. Mrs. Members, this was our commitment to Portugal, a commitment to the truth, and that is what is required of a party with responsibilities. What is required of a government with responsibilities is to tell the Portuguese how it will support their proposals. Today we hear the opposition, particularly the Socialist Party, to criticise a proven financial recovery policy that has ensured the budgetary stability of this country, which has ensured economic growth above the European Union average, a growth that actually translates reality in Portugal. But in the last few days, it has been enough for the Socialist Party to leave the street and present its proposals to realize that the mask has fallen. We once again had the Socialist Party which in 2011 led this country to the hole. When a party presented proposals — I will not discuss the goodness of the proposals — which entail a charge of EUR 3000 million for the Portuguese people, it was at least requested that it be explained how these proposals support them. What will these proposals cost the Portuguese? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask: is it in the successive tax for inheritances above EUR 1 million? Do you know so many Portuguese people who leave inheritances above EUR 1 million? [[PS protests.]] Do you know the reality of the country where you live? Is it for the Socialist Party to support the Portuguese and the families to put an end to the family quotient? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese want stability, they want a future that you have not given them. They don't want a fourth ransom, they don't want the troika, they want, and they deserve, respect. The path that this plan and this government have brought and on which we believe is that of growth and responsibility for Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-22.u183	With no further inscriptions, I conclude the debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme as well as today's work. The next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, beginning at 3 p.m. and on the following agenda: Point 1 — Joint debate of the projects of lein.os 829 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September, which establishes the exceptional regime for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and defines the terms applicable to the regularization of urban areas of illegal genesis during the period established therein ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ) and 783 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Fifth amendment to Law No 91 / 95 of 2 September — Process for the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis CFP ), in general, and draft resolutions No 1379 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures on urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis and compliance with the legislation applicable to them ( PS ), 1434 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the weighting of incentives for urban conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis, including the admissibility of application of the planned tax regime for urban rehabilitation with the necessary adaptations ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1438 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a fund for the financing of the conversion of urban areas of illegal genesis ( AUGI ) ( BE ) ; Point 2 — Joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 812 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums due by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants by the second amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ), 463 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Financing of public higher education ( CFP ) and 885 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish amnesty by default of payment of university tips for proven economic deficiency and introduce the exemption of propines in the academic year 2015 / 2016 ( BE), in general, and draft resolutions 1297 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of standardized regulatory standards of the criteria for fixing fees and emoluments charged by higher education institutions ( PS ) and 1437 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enlargement of the universe of higher education scholarships, as a result of the revision of the Regulation on the Allocation of Scholarships for Higher Education Students (BE); Point 3 — Discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 879 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 882 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 21 / 2014 of 16 April approving the Clinical Research Act ( CFP ) ; Point 4 — Joint appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 1367 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends promotion of measures to defend national milk production ( CFP ), 1393 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ), 1412 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government extraordinary measures to support producers of milk for the Azores ( BE ) and 1433 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the dairy sector ( PS ) ; Point 5 — Joint appreciation of draft law No 880 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Legalizes the cultivation of cannabis for personal consumption and creates the legal framework for the canabis social clubs ( BE), in general, and of the draft resolutions 1435 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government analyse developments in the health impacts of cannabis use, adopt measures to prevent its consumption and study the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes ( PCP ) and 1436 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an active policy on the prevention of drug addictions and alcohol consumption for young people and risk reduction ( PS ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 1 minute.]]
