ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Justice, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we get on the agenda, I will ask Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, draft resolutions Nos 1447 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — For the full respect for the autonomy and non-interference in the democratic life of students and their associations, for the deburocratization of the process of legalization and the allocation of public support to youth associations and for the strengthening of the conditions of democratic participation of young people in the life of schools and the country ( PCP ), 1448 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the fundamental role of the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ) by opening an invitation to tender for labour inspectors, in compliance with the ILO ( PS ) Conventions, which falls to 10. the Commission, 1449 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures to ensure the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights in schools as a fundamental dimension of the citizenship of young people ( BE) and 1450/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the prohibition of the use of glyphosate ( The Greens ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u3	Mrs. Members, we turn to point 1 of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the proposals of lein. 308 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Board of Applicants into Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents and approves its Statute in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the establishment, organisation and operation of professional public associations, 309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Advocates in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and 310 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Notaries, approved by Decree-Law No 27 / 2004 of 4 February in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and amending the Statute of the Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 26 / 2004 of 4 February. To present the proposals for legislation, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, My Ladies and gentlemen, Illustrious Representatives of the Professional Orders present here: The Staff Regulations of Professional Orders operating in the field of justice have been revised for the common purpose of their conformity with Law No 2 / 2013, which establishes the legal regime of the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. This has, of course, determined, in respect of all the Orders concerned, the innovative provision for the submission of those Orders to a legal protection of the member of the Government responsible for the area of justice. However, the opportunity to improve the existing Statutes has not been lost, whenever it has been considered justified, so the proposed laws to which I refer also relate this benefit. With regard to the proposal approving the new status of the Advocates' Order, I refer to some of the amendments perfunctoryly. It comes from the framework law, but in particular from the new organisation of the judicial system, the need to adapt to the current model. The new internal structure of the Advocates'Order is therefore reflected in the list of their bodies, and in this way the Order may establish delegations whenever and where more than 10 registered lawyers exist, as is withdrawn from Articles 61. a 63. o. On the other hand, a new body is created which is responsible for the supervision of the capital and financial management of the order, the fiscal council, as a mandatory consequence of the framework law. It is also innovatively envisaged that the general council of the order should designate, on a proposal from the Bastonary and if so warrant, a customer provider, an body which is provided by the framework law as optional, but whose task in defending the interests of the recipients of the services provided by lawyers is of particular relevance to us. The possibility of referendums on issues of particular relevance to the Order of Advocates falling into their respective positions is envisaged, thus reaffirming a democratic principle; the respective professional titles of a specialist lawyer are limited, assigning themselves statutory relevance to them and contributing to the dignity of the profession and to the transparency of forensic practice; the stage of access to the profession becomes to have a maximum duration of 18 months, even though the importance in the rigor of entry and initial training is not overlooked, so the two stages of training currently planned, which will now end with the realization of a single final proof of aggregation. As regards the exercise of disciplinary action, I stress the consecration of the punitivity of the attempt and the graduation of disciplinary offences in mild, serious and very serious, with consequent reflections on the level of their sanctions. On the other hand, the new statute of the Advocates'Order strengthens the policies of freedom of the exercise of the profession and of establishment, updating the rule relating to the recognition of professional title, in particular the entry of Croatia into the European Union. In line with the proposed law establishing the legal regime of professional societies, the current bill proposes, in relation to all companies of professionals which are subject to public association, the repeal of the legal regime of companies of lawyers. However, and in accordance with Article 55. that of the master's degree, there was a need to provide, in the statute of the Lawyer's Order, some rules that regulate especially the companies of lawyers. With regard to law firms and, from the outset, taking into account the mission of public interest which the lawyer pursues, it is justified that the establishment of multidisciplinary societies is prohibited by direct or indirect means, as provided for in Articles 211. o is 213. o. If lawyers can only exercise the profession in isolation or by constituting or entering associations of lawyers as associated partners, they are not allowed to exercise their activity indirectly in any kind of association or integration with other professions. In fact, lawyers benefit from a set of immunities and the preservation of their independence, from ethical rules that would be absolutely conflicting with a multidisciplinary society. As regards the status of the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents, it should be noted that the bill transforms the Board of Applicants into Order of Applicants and Enforcement Agents. The status shall, in terms similar to those provided for in the Order of Advocates, provide for the fiscal council, the customer provider and the conduct of referendums; the disciplinary power shall be harmonized, in particular with the CAAJ (Commission for the Monitoring of the Legal Aids) ; in defence of transparency, provision shall be made for the Order to keep updated public lists accessible on its website to make all the information available and to perform the functions necessary for the performance of its functions; the Incompatibilities and Impairments regime is a restricted regime, as is the case with regard to training. There are also no multidisciplinary societies allowed here. Finally, I refer to the status of the Order of Notaries. In addition to adapting to the framework law, of course, I would like to say that multidisciplinary societies are also prohibited here. In line with the other diplomas, amendments have been made in disciplinary matters; the breakdown of the notarial map is carried out; safeguards are introduced in respect of the preservation and preservation of the private notarial archive; the scheme applicable to the Compensation Fund is regulated; the regulations of the Notarial Inventory Support Box are established and applied. Finally, I would like to thank all the contributions which, for these three professions of relevant public interest, have given us their representative entities. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u5	The Bureau took note of five questions from the honourable Members. Deputies Cecilia Honorio, by the Block of Left, Luís Pita Amisema, by PS, Teresa Anjinho, by the CDS-PP, and Antonio Filipe, by the PCP. The Minister will answer the questions put together. Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u6	Madam President, I begin by congratulating the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and the Minister for Justice. Mr Minister of Justice, as you well know, we have the greatest reservations about this process of transposition of the Services Directive, which basically relates to the liberalisation of the labour market and its conversion to Law No 2 / 2013, which here well invoked, in particular as regards deadlines. The deadline was long, there was, at last, the timetable of the troika, but at the moment, we are reduced to this calendar of frenzy, and such a calendar is never a good advisor. However, we have subjects here with great sensitivity. The government transposes the Directive, but in our understanding it uses, in numerous areas, to make other improvisations. Since you have mentioned contributions, Mrs Minister of Justice, I would like to ask you in particular why, with regard to the proposal for a law No 309 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), to the new status of the Advocates' Order, this Order did not integrate any working group. In our view, it is unacceptable that a revision of the Statute of the Advocates' Order should take place unilaterally, and that the Government should decide everything. from what we know, this whole process is a very troubled novel. In 2014 the government was in a great hurry and urgently summoned the Order, which responded, not knowing the version it delivered to the troika. In January 2015, the proposal was a different one, and the Order asked time to evaluate these proposals and present its reasoned opinion, but the Government says it does not have time. Madam Minister, we are talking about contributions and I would like to leave this question to you. Why is it that, with regard to the Advocates' Order, there has indeed not been an open procedure for consulting and collecting opinions, particularly within a working group? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u7	To put questions, Mr Luís Pita Amisema has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u8	Madam President, I begin by congratulating the Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality. Mr. Minister of Justice, first of all, I would like to stress the incredible two-year delay with which you bring here this matter I know that you already said you had to comply with the other statutes of the other Orders, but this compatibility had to be done within the time limit which was indicated by the law, i.e. until April 2013. So from there to here there's a significant delay. I would like to ask you three questions about the statutes of the Order of Applicants and Executive Officers and about the class of the notariate and MP Isabel Moreira will talk about the lawyers. First of all, as far as implementing agents are concerned, we know that today they can accumulate with the role of lawyer and solicitor. However, this accumulation is not free, it is subject to certain impediments and, in what is now proposed, it becomes an absolute incompatibility. Now, having a system of impediments, of which the Minister, in several matters, has often made doctrine here that it is more important that there are good impediments than an incompatibility, I wonder what is the theoretical justification for this incompatibility and whether it is also taken into account those people who are already in this cumulative situation, who have made investments and who have their life prepared to do so and who now see this career cut off. This is the first question. Secondly, even with regard to implementing agents, we find that it is a contingent profession, in which only x elements can enter each time. For example, in the case of lawyers, everyone who does the internship, theoretically, can either or not be enrolled in the Order and in this case cannot. If, for example, 50 vacancies are opened for implementing agents, but 500 people are competed, there are 450 who will take the stage and spend time and money for a long time, when we know, at the start, that only 50 will enter. The question I am asking is whether it would not be more logical to have an entry call, as is the case, for example, in the Statute of the Order of Official Accountants.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u9	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u10	I wonder if this is not a similar situation and whether this criterion has been considered. Finally, and finally, on the notary, the question of judicial support, which I think is quite serious. Since Ordinance No. 278 / 2013 there is no legal support for inventories that are made by notaries. We have a year and a half of process delay. There are 38 % of inventory cases stopped one and a half years ago because of the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u11	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u12	... first of all, due to the lack of payment of fees ; secondly, due to the lack of an agreement between the Government and the TTCs. Now, in the proposal that brings us, he divided the whole class and broke the Order of the Notaries. My question is: when is the government able to solve this situation of legal support and inventory? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u13	The next question lies with Mrs Teresa Anjinho. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, today we are discussing a series of three extremely important proposals, the preamble of which is well known to all. First of all, comply with the statutory rules under Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January concerning professional public associations, including creating a new order, the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents. Secondly, as it is also known, to make corrections and improvements that practice has allowed them to identify and assume them as absolutely necessary, of course, in meeting a clear objective, which we too recognize here, to contribute to the continuing dignity of the various professions in all their aspects. Having said this and aware, Mrs Minister, that it is not in this seat but in the field of expertise that we can proceed to a deeper and detailed debate on the numerous issues and even criticisms and observations that have been raised and that can continue to be raised — it is part of democracy itself — and on the various initiatives and, in fact, even to the complexity of some of the matters that are dealt with here, most of which allow me, from now on, to say, those issues which I consider to be clarification, more than anything else, so I see that they are easily visible, even those that we are hearing about constitutionality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u16	... on matters of time, I would like to put a brief question to the notaries on the request for clarification here. One of the most sensitive points in the statutes seems to be related to the Notary Inventory Support Box and its form of financing. We all well remember, or we should remember, the important reform which is underlying here, approved in this House, in which we carried out the propagating and desirable judicialization of the inventory process, assigning to the notary books the competence for the processing of acts and terms of those acts. Mr Minister, this was in fact a very relevant measure in our view. However, not surprisingly, we began to hear some criticisms, but it is also natural, by the very novelty, that doubts arise and even needs for adjustments, already recognized here by the Minister herself. The concern that brings us is related to the experience of the past one and a half years of inventories, where the percentage of inventory processes with support is too high and the value of the fees relating to cases with legal support is almost equal to the value of the fees collected in the cases without support. This is, in fact, a high probability of inadmissibility of such a Box. That is to say, it is a problem of solvency and sustainability that puts us at risk. And, Madam Minister, it would be important to clarify the reflection and caution that was taken into account when this measure was taken into account, and it is always susceptible to adaptation and adjustment in practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u17	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u18	I will finish, Madam President. In the same area of concern, we are also sensitive to the possible introduction of an equity criterion, taking into account the value set here for 10 % of inventory processes as a fixed discount value for the Notary Box, if possible a minimum limit can be established here. These are the questions I leave you with, Minister. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u19	To put questions, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u20	Mr President, Minister of Justice, we will have an opportunity in the speech to refer to various aspects of the various proposed laws under discussion, but there is already one of them to which we can no longer speak and question, which has to do with the status of the Advocates' Order. First of all, the degree of conflict that the Government has caused to surround the presentation of this bill with regard to its professional order.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u22	In other words, the Government cannot say that it submits this bill when it has not even been heard as much with the participation of the Advocates' Order!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u23	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u24	Obviously, the legislative definition of the status of a profession must not fail to take account of the participation of the respective order. What happens is that, in the case of the Advocates' Order, this has not been taken into account. Therefore, the Advocates' Order did not, at all, have the possibility of giving a reasonable ruling in relation to the proposed law which the Government has introduced, which is regrettable. But there are two aspects to this status that I would like the Minister to clarify to us. The first is the following: the Minister says that this bill does not admit, either directly or indirectly, multidisciplinary societies. It is very good not to admit, the problem is that you do not understand how Article 211 is. the, in the writing you have, does not admit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u26	Now reading of Article 211 ( 1 ). that of this bill, we do not see how large multinational consultants do not enter this « window ». Therefore, it would be good for the government to accept, at least in the specialty, to make that absolutely clear. If the government, as it says, does not want to admit multidisciplinary societies, to do so in a tax manner and not leave room for doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u28	In our view, this wording leaves room for all doubts. Or rather, it seems clear that, with this formulation, large consultants can perfectly enter and exercise advocacy in Portugal. It would be good if that were very clear and that this wording was altered. Finally, I do not know how it can be said that the protection of the Advocates' Order is a guardianship of legality, when what is envisaged here is that the Government must adopt essential regulations for the exercise of the profession. How is this a legal guardianship, Minister? Obviously it is not. It is clearly a guardianship of merit, from our point of view, perfectly unacceptable. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u29	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u30	Madam President, telegraphically, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, or there is a hurry or delay, they decide! On the issue of the case with the Advocates' Order, the Order sent a proposal for a global reformulation at the last minute of the last day to do so, without discussing it with the class, and the Government understood — and you certainly have these elements — that a complete reformulation and not a mere adaptation to the framework law, on the backs of the whole class, was not compatible with the democratic exercise. As for other questions put by Mrs Deputies, which are very similar to those of Mr António Filipe, I reply that it is very easy to display the emails exchanged with the Order as well as it is very easy to say the days on which meetings were held with the Order. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, all this is likely, so there is certainly some misinformation there. Mr Pita Amisexa, once again, or there was precipitation or delay, they decide! The two things, at the same time, can't be.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u31	I'm late!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u32	On the other hand, as regards the implementing agents — who are lawyers and applicants and who are now lawyers — the Government naturally has a willingness to safeguard acquired situations in the field of expertise in a thinner mesh. However, you will also understand that it does not seem very appropriate that whoever performs a good is who has been a judicial agent in that process, which is what is said. It is not precisely an incompatibility between professions. With regard to the quota, as in insolvency administrators, there are requirements in this area, as you will imagine. That's why. As for the notary, everything was dealt with with with the Order of Notaries and in an appropriate perspective. Moreover, as expected, it led to a review of the door at the appropriate time. When you talk about Box, I mean that 10 % are already reflected in the table that notaries pick up. Therefore, this issue is therefore settled, and the State itself has committed itself, for a period of 18 months, to support it. We're talking about a liberal profession. Mr António Filipe, there has never been a conflict on the part of the Ministry of Justice. It's exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u33	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u34	The first project presented by the Advocates' Order—and I am very surprised that a statement from the honourable Member would come from this content—is that it would come exactly to the wake of a discussion within the class.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u35	But did you accept the project or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u36	As regards Article 211. O, read it well, sir! Paragraph 1 states that the association organisations of the other Member States have the limits laid down in Article 213 ( 7 ). the, which says that it is not permitted for lawyers companies to exercise, directly or indirectly, their activity in any kind of association or integration with other professions. Therefore, Mr President, it is very clear to us, but if you have a better formulation, of course. With regard to Mrs Teresa Anjinho, I believe that I have responded to what I have already reported. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u37	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u38	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality: Let us discuss today three diplomas which, in the proper sense and once again, lead essential professional exercises, and will be - even more so today, in the relevance of the realization of justice. The Minister, as you have just said, has been attacked successively by over-legislation and by a lack of legislation. That is not the point of view of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which believes that the Government and the Minister have legislation on justice and what is needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u40	The first bill is the one that transforms the Board of Applicants into Order of Applicants and Enforcement Agents and uses to greet the leaders of the Board of Applicants here present. With this diploma, the professional exercise of applicants and implementing agents will be dignified. Bill No 310 / XII ( 4. ( a ) amends the Statute of the Order of Notaries, also conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013. I also use it to greet the leaders and the Notaries Order staff, who, from the approval of this diploma, have new competences, extending their scope for action in the realization of justice. We then have Bill No. 309 / XII ( 4. ( a ), approving the new Statute of the Law of Advocates, also in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013. And I would also like to congratulate the leaders of the Advocates' Order and, in particular, Mrs Bastonária of the Advocates' Order. There are a number of innovations and highlights in this statute, which have been the subject of debate. For lack of time, I'm not going to cover myself about all of them. I will say only this: the PSD Parliamentary Group, which will soon be opened, will be available to collect all constructive and valid contributions with a view to improving these bills. But I repeat, contributions that are constructive and valid. We cannot, because we are in an election year and just a few months away, transform the Statute and the professional exercise of these activities, so important for the realization of justice, into a field of debate, in my view, harmless and useless, in order to say: it should have been legislated sooner or should have been legislated later. We, the PSD Parliamentary Group, are available for a debate that improves the functioning of justice and not for a debate on whether the clock is later or earlier in this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u41	The intervention of the PS follows. Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u42	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Before the intervention, I would like to make a small correction. When Mr.Minister said that the status was not discussed with the class, she was referring to the project delivered by the previous staff in 2013, because the project delivered in 2015 was discussed by all the bodies of the Advocates' Order, in general assembly. Make it clear! I'm moving on to my intervention now. Bill No. 309 / XII ( 4. ( a ) has points that threaten the serenity of an average lawyer. Here we are, two years late, with the losses I refrain from listing. One of the most gratifying losses concerns the right of access to the profession. The rules on access to the profession are imperative and, however, thousands of candidates for the profession of lawyer continued to be subject to an expired regime due to government inertia. The wording of Article 3. that of the proposal, where we find the so-called transitional provision, is a shame. The average lawyer shall examine this article on the transitional provision and read as follows: « The amendments introduced by this law shall apply to the stages which begin, as well as to disciplinary proceedings established, after their date of entry into force ». In other words, the transitional standard assumes the opposite function of the transitional rules, to safeguard the legal situations prior to the entry into force of a new diploma. On the contrary, it assumes the discrimination of trainees and, in disciplinary proceedings, disappears, in a penalty, the most favourable treatment principle. As regards incompatibilities, the matter must of course be covered by the legal regime of incompatibilities and impediments of the holders of political and high public positions and not of the Statute of the Advocates' Order.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u44	The most critical point is the protection of legality. In accordance with Article 227. that of the proposal, mentioned here, the protection of legality, dealing with regulations and evidence of access to the profession, is in fact a blatant protection of merit, violator of Article 46. the Constitution, an aberration that annihilates the associative dimension of the Order of Lawyers, transforming the association, in large part, into simple institute or administrative service. It was also very clear from the reading of the draft submitted by the Order of Advocates, the first draft of the Government and this version, that the abandonment by the Government of the consecration of the acts of the lawyers' own, of the integrated master required for the judiciary and the consecration of the crime of illicit prosecutorry was no longer a retaliation of the Minister of Justice, of course, to the normal fact that people exercise their procedural rights. The sad order that is proposed to us today, which loses its legitimacy to be an assistant defender of the values that it pursues and that it is limited to having such quality to defend the rights of its associates. This is a union order! This is a minister with a democratic culture! Open... Moreover, the Minister of Justice, who so often reminds us of the status of a lawyer, does not hesitate, in Article 212. that of the proposal, to allow companies, by mere registration in the Order of Advocates, to provide counseling services, to steal from the supervision of the Order. And we can be partners in a lawyer society, entering with their capital. This is a shot in the essence of law! It is appropriate to say, Mrs. Minister, that, if possible, today I would be here with my toga. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u45	The CDS-PP intervention is followed. Mr Artur Rego has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u46	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Bartonaires and other representatives of the three Orders present at this time, which is an important time for all. I do not want to repeat, but I will have to say and remember, because it was little said here, that the amendment of the Statutes of these Orders, as of the others, stems from the need, in view of the framework law adopted in 2013, to adapt to the standards of this framework law. It is also necessary to adjust the Community Directive on mobility and the right of establishment. Having said that, I would like to congratulate and congratulate the Minister and the Government on the fact that, in the particular case of the Advocates' Order, if they have finally introduced in this bill, as far as the stage is concerned, clear rules. Clear rules that were needed, which now appear in the statutes themselves and which are the protection of the rights of suitors to the exercise of the law with their own powers, preventing for the future, through this consecration, abusive abuses and regulatory amendments, which were no more than acts and obstacles to the access and freedom to the exercise of the profession. I would also like to congratulate the Government for having enshrined in the statutes what was obvious and that it is a need that has long been felt by the class, which is the allocation of a collective person of public law to the Advocates' Order. The importance of the profession, the importance and the contribution of these professionals to justice in Portugal, more than it justified, and long ago, this consecration. It is clear that no diplomas, however consensual they try to be the same, will satisfy Greeks and trojans. Therefore, there is no completely harmless and acritical diploma in all its rules. That is why there is this debate now, and then there will be the debate in the specialty. Of course, there are questions that are raised by professionals, of which I would like to refer two or three to the Minister. For example, the question of teachers, namely why in some Orders the master is required and in others not. And here I would like to recall, as a historical memory, the Bologna Process and why the Bologna Process. The Bologna Process appears to create trans-European uniformity as regards the duration of the diplomas and the acquisition by young people of the different countries of their own skills and qualifications within the same time, irrespective of the country of the European community where they continued their studies. The requirement, which, in many cases, was being made, that the degree would not suffice to have access to the professional internship in their respective Orders was—and it is therefore, in many cases, that it remains — a frustration of the original purpose of Bologna. But it is a question that will also have to be addressed in the field of expertise, where appropriate adjustments can be made. Another question that lawyers are asking and that can be clarified today, or in the field of specialty, is the question of substitution, which has not been explained to them in disciplinary proceedings, and as a supplementary right, of what was enshrined in the general criminal law by the disciplinary process of the General Law on Public Works. This is a question that professionals are asking and which is a relevant issue, why and the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u47	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u48	I shall conclude, Madam President. Finally, I had another question, but the Minister put forward my question, demonstrating the openness that the Government has and that the majority will then, in their capacity as a specialist, examine the question about the applicants who are implementing agents, and the lawyers who are implementing agents, especially the retroactivity of the proposed rule and the problems that cause the lawyers, who, in due course and under the law, have made this option. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u49	The intervention of the Left Block follows. Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u50	Madam President, I would like to congratulate all the leaders and representatives of the Orders present here and, for each of the bills, leave some notes to the Minister of Justice. I would like to note the availability presented here for a very sensitive issue concerning the proposal for a law establishing the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents. This incompatibility between the performance of the functions of the executing agent and the exercise of the judicial mandate, this incompatibility with the limitations envisaged and with the retroactivity, as you well know, risks serious unconstitutionality. And, from our point of view, we note the availability and at the same time we cannot accept that these conditions and that this Statute have been allowed while they were needed and now these people are discarded and the exercise of their activity. With regard to the proposal for a Law on the Order of Advocates, the Minister will recognise what has already been mentioned here, that is to say, with regard to the draft submitted in January 2015, the concern of the Order was a very deep and extensive consultation and, therefore, you were asked to extend the deadline, which the Minister of Justice, to which we know, did not want to accept. Here, the point is to recognise the following: the Minister maintains a high level of conflict — at least it seems — but on the other hand, the PSD comes 'to put water on the boil' and tells us: 'Let's calm down, there is time to make the amendments', and I hope so. There are subjects here that are very sensitive and that are not acceptable, from our point of view. For example: the capacity of the lawyer to be an assistant is conditional; the acts of the lawyers in the Statute are removed; there is no possibility of recourse to the courts when there are conflicts between partners and they are referred to the arbitral tribunal; the protection of the Ministry of Justice is objectively, and as has already been mentioned here enough, a protection of merit; in the debate on literary qualifications, the proposal of the Minister of Justice to introduce discrimination in relation to the judiciary is objective; multidisciplinary societies cannot be for nationals, but, if they are foreign, they can already. In short, they are matters of great sensitivity and record here, if not the availability of the Minister of Justice, at least that of the PSD, to keep all these aspects in line. Finally, with regard to the proposal for a law on the Order of Notaries, Mrs Minister, with regard to the Notarial Inventory Support Box, we know that 37 % of inventory proceedings are in legal support, and there is no other class of legal professionals financing legal support. It must be recognised here that the proposal, as it is enshrined, is not justifiable. Among other things, which we believe the specialty can clarify, are, in particular, these supervisory powers which are assigned to the Institute of Registers and the Notary and which, in our view, make no sense, since we have the General Inspection of the Justice Services for this purpose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u51	The PSD intervention is followed. Mr Cristovão Simon Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u52	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party and, in particular, the Social Democratic Youth believe that young Portuguese people have the right to pursue their profession, the profession for which they have studied, for which they have qualified themselves and, above all, the profession that, together with their families, have made a huge effort to be able to do so. Today, young people study in Portugal and complete highly demanding cycles, highly evaluated, highly accredited and taught by teachers whose academic competence is above all suspicion. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this House and in this country, no one can ever disguise the fact that, at the end of this journey, Portuguese young people face a genuine baldness in terms of access to their profession. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this calvary has a name: corporateism. That is, those who are already comfortably integrated and installed in their profession often place disproportionate barriers to entry and entry of new professional agents. More agents mean more competition and, unfortunately, in this country there are still those who fear more competition in their profession. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u53	Let us see, then, what kind of barriers have been set by the Advocates' Order in recent years: rates and highly unbearable and unbearable emoluments for Portuguese youth; unpaid and incompatible stages with the IEFP (Instituto de Employo e Formation Professional ) stage ; examinations of access to the internship, however voted to illegality, and, in order to escape to these, intermediate measurement examinations and still the threat of the master's requirement for access to the profession. Mr President, Portugal invests much in the qualification to improve the future of our country and, therefore, we, who have political responsibilities, cannot let some professional associations try to cut hope and opportunities to young Portuguese people. We recognize the importance of professional orders, including the Advocates' Order, in the regulation and regulation of the profession, in the teaching of art and in the safeguarding of ethics. In fact, we are aware of its important role in safeguarding citizens' constitutional guarantees. But this principle can never legitimize everything and, therefore, this Government and this majority have, in the amendment to the Statute of the Advocates' Order, managed by young people today not to face examinations of access to internships, examinations of measurement and we hope that they will not meet the unjust demand of the master in access to his profession. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u54	Finally, because those who work are entitled to their salary, today it will be possible to make the IEFP stage compatible with the Order of Advocates, thanks to the Ministry of Justice and this majority. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want this to reduce the requirement. We defend stages and final exams of rigorous aggregation, but we cannot let the interests of a group set up in a profession continue to prevent the access of young Portuguese people to their profession. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u55	PCP intervention is followed. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u56	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: Interesting intervention, this one, which we have just heard from Mr Simão Ribeiro. It means that the PSD is already sorry to have voted against the remuneration of internships during the framework law of professional associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u58	PSD is sorry. I am glad that you have repented, because you will still have time to act in accordance with what you have just said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u59	We hope so!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u60	... or, then, it is appropriate to say « Well preach Brother Simon, do as he says, that he does not». [[PCP laughter.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the statutes of the Order of Appeals and the Implementing Agents under discussion, we would like to point out that there will certainly be aspects of expertise that will have to be considered, taking into account the opinion that has been presented to us and the views that have been transmitted to us by their professional association. As far as notaries are concerned, there are issues worth noting from now on in the general debate. One of them is the absurd nature of the fund which is intended to be set up to finance legal support in inventory proceedings, because it is intended to place a profession to finance, with its fees, the provision of legal support, which is unequivocally the responsibility of the State. It is the same thing as getting lawyers to fund the legal support of their purse or getting doctors to finance the National Health Service. It doesn't really make sense. We have been shown, in fact, even by the Order of the Notaries, the inability of this fund, and it is therefore something that cannot fail to be re-equarated at the time of discussion in the specialty, because in fact it makes no sense. For notaries, there is a very relevant issue, which is access to databases. In fact, it does not make sense that implementing agents can have access to databases to perform their duties, but that this is forbidden to notaries. It is therefore necessary to see what conditions this must be done, but from our point of view it cannot be denied, so we wanted to leave this note here. The degree of disagreement regarding the status of the Advocates' Order is emphasized for several reasons, which we do not have time to explain in the debate in general, but we will certainly do so in the specialty, with aspects which must be very clear. On the one hand, the prohibition of multidisciplinary societies must be very clear. We must all work so that there is no doubt about this. These companies should not be admitted, either directly or indirectly, because of the consequences that this would have on the conditions for the exercise of counsel, particularly in the field of ethics. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, unequivocally, the protection of merit which is established cannot exist. In fact, in accordance with the wording herein, i.e. the regulations drawn up and approved by the Order, which are essential for the exercise of the profession, cannot be subject to a protection of merit on the part of the Government by means of type-approval, which is clearly reflected in the diploma. Even more so, something unusual was established, which is a so-called legal protection, but to which, then, the possibility of a tacit referral corresponds. A tacit referral does not play with the protection of legality, but only with a guardianship of merit, which is clearly what is here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u61	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u62	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. malcolm. hunter@gmx. co. uk We therefore hope that there will also be an opening on the part of the Government to listen to those involved, to listen to the lawyers and to re-equalize fundamental aspects with which we deeply disagree. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u63	I have the information that the PSD is giving time to the government, so you have the floor for an intervention, the Minister of Justice, who has one minute and five seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u64	Madam President, I will not take long to explain the difference between the protection of merit and the protection of legality, because any administrative law manual of the 2nd. The year of law, he explains. An act of type-approval does not involve a guardianship of merit. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u65	Don't take advantage of it! Go read!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u66	Mrs. Members, regarding the participation of the Advocates'Order, met with Mrs Bastonária on 16 and 24 April 2014. The Order twice submitted proposals for the statute which were considered on 11 February 2013 and April 2014. The Order did not take action within the subsequent deadline for direct consultation. It was granted, on request, an extension, not given within that period. Another extension we would agree that it was too much. On the issue of legal protection, Mr. Members, see Article 45. o paragraph 5. As regards the disappearance of their own acts, they refer to the status. There's nothing missing about the lawyers' own actions. It's all clear there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u67	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u68	Mrs. Members, on the issue of the framework law itself, the framework law is very clear and we are even clearer: there is a strengthening of transparency, there is a strengthening of incompatibilities, there is a reinforcement in the actions of each legal profession, and it is not acceptable for the PS to speak in inventory process when the PS inventory process was completely stopped without ever having been applied! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u69	Not supported. It was postponed by the dissolution of the Assembly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u70	We therefore conclude this afternoon's first debate on the general discussion of lein. 308 / XII's proposals ( 4 ). ( a ), 309 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 310 / XII ( 4. ( a ) on the Board of Appeals respectively, the Statute of the Order of Advocates and the Statute of the Order of Notaries. We turn to point 2, which consists of the joint debate and generally of Bill No 305 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The thirty-sixth amendment to the Criminal Code adopted by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September implementing Directive 2011 / 93 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 and establishing the criminal identification system of convicted persons for the practice of crimes against sexual self-determination and child sexual freedom, and of the projects of lein. 772 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by complying with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse ( Lanzarote Convention) ( PS ) and 886 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( PCP ). Before I give the floor to present the bill, I would ask the honourable Members. Members to take their seats so that we can get into the debate. You then have the floor to the Minister of Justice to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every day the press reports sexual abuse of minors and every day the Judicial Police receives, on average, three, I repeat, three complaints concerning these types of crime. It is seen of everything, even pre-pubre children arrested, sodomized, raped, in a mortgage of some of the coming generations. As a rule, whoever has children, underage, lives in care. It is clear from the reading of newspapers or from what is seen on television that the danger usually arises from where it is least expected. In the family or those in whom parents and their own trust: the doctor, the catechist, the head of the scouts, the priest, the teacher, the football coach, the oldest colleague in the school... The Government submits a proposal for reference to sexual abusers, who will become in the possession of police and magistrates and gives parents the opportunity to know whether, in their area of residence or in the school of children or in the place of vacation, there are convictions for this type of crime, but not their identity, unless you know that person. This is the parallel measure in other countries, notably in the United States, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom, France and some Federal States of Germany. In the countries referred to, registers of citizens condemned for the practice of such crimes have been created. The common feature of these records is the circumstances of the convicted persons being subject to the obligation to keep the data relating to their residence up to date, notifying the amendments thereto. The duration of registration is variable, mainly depending on the duration of the penalty applied. As an outstanding note from the U.S. registry, we found public access to it. Also in the English registration system, parents or other persons may request, or, better, they have the right/duty, within a pilot project, to inform them whether a particular person is registered in the register. The condition is that the person concerned has access to the child and may present a danger to him. Records of convicted persons in the United Kingdom and France were assessed by the European Court of Human Rights in six consecutive judgments. And in six consecutive judgments it was considered that this record was not an accessory penalty or a criminal penalty but a preventive measure, even if it lasted 30 years. In the words of the Court, this is a measure « purely preventive and dissuasive ». The same Court concluded that this register is based on a fair balance between public and private interests, since the crimes in question are particularly censorable and their victims are vulnerable persons. We must have in the balance of justice those who suffer and those who cheat. We must also deal with the victims, although there is no one who can fully do so, such is the subversion of the concepts and values of children. They can never get a full treatment again. How much suffering in silence? Sons of no one? Oh, my God! We cannot allow it, we must take the first step. The conformity of this register with the rules of the European Convention on Human Rights was reaffirmed by the European Court in a new decision made at the end of last year. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe itself, through the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights, has developed a study on the creation of a European register of sex offenders. In order to achieve this objective, national legislation likewise regulates the hiring of persons who perform regular functions with minors. Therefore, the concerns expressed by the Medical Order are fully justified when they propose, for example, that the registration last 23 years, which we follow. A range of sexual abusers stand out the primary or preferential abusers, who, according to those responsible for the CrimeClassificationManual, perpetuate to satisfy sexual or other needs by resorting to elements of aggression necessary for excitation and gratification. These usually involve strong behavioural or sexually ritualized patterns, which are difficult to change for the abuser. contrary to what happens to the situational abuser, the preferential abuser develops a sexual ritual, planning and seeking a specific victim. According to Ashley Ames and David Houston university professors, primary or preferential abusers use as an approach strategy the threat, organized trafficking of children, abduction of foreigners or strangers, seduction and enticement of neighbouring children, friends or relatives. Second documentation made available by the Order of Physicians to the Members. Members, the treatment of pedophilia, or this paraphila of preferential abusers, is virtually impossible. The opposition knows that it is necessary to take this step, but it does not admit it. It lies in known arguments, such as perpetual convictions, when the European Court of Human Rights has already said otherwise. Anyway... If the authorities do not hold a register of abusers, a gap with which we live today, how can they be careful and take the necessary measures? Is it not more reasonable to know that in your area of intervention there are pedophiles and there is a necessary, preventive police force than there is no record? If a team of the Safe School always find the same individual, whose identity already has, it will not confuse him as a father. Until today, the abuser pays penalty, leaves, starts his life again, and the trail is erased — all in the name of rights, freedoms and guarantees. And the children who were victims have no rights? Don't you have rights? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u73	They have ruined their lives and live in the shadow of stigma forever, they become untrustworthy, not believing in love and affection, they will never have a full love or affection life, they are victims of recurrent depression, they have more propensity for addictions and the probability of having diabetes and hypertension. According to medical descriptions, rape of a female child up to five years of age has as great probability the death of the female child. The copulation causes the breakdown of the perineal planes and will cause a bleeding, being the rapid loss of blood and fluids to the common cause of death. What has been done so far to avoid this? According to many studies, about 20 % of women and 10 % of men were sexually abused in childhood. Really, even at our side in Spain, the prevalence of sexual abuse in childhood is 20 % for women and 15 % for men. in other countries, about 50% of people attending mental health services were sexually abused in childhood. In Portugal, where he recently agreed to this reality with Casa Pia, the studies are very clear. It is a reality rooted in black figures, however, where a part of the crimes is not reported. And when we notice that much of the abuse is domestic, we cannot forget what science says on the subject. It's not worth collecting statistics, there's for all tastes. But even if it was 1 %, no one will ever be absolutely sure of anything. What matters is that children are abused daily. Is that what you're saying? Do Members know that while we're sitting there are streaming users watching on the Internet, live, rapes of minors happening? Yeah, it's true. There are people who pay, through virtual money, through bitcoins, to visualize and get sexual satisfaction live and live. Sodomized children, arrested children, children who are obliged, including, to sexual practices with animals. That is why we also create a basis for all of us to be able to combat this scourge. in a study, Anna Salter revealed that, of the predators who interviewed, on average, 175 victims had already been the subject of the same sexual abuser. This number must make us think. Each of those abusers who spoke to Anna Salter could only be convicted of a crime of sexual abuse to minors, but had already left 174 victims behind. I won't give up on all of us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u74	The Bureau recorded the registration of two Mrs. Members to request clarification, but the Minister no longer has time. As such, the gentlemen. Members will use the floor later. To present the PS bill, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u75	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has decided to submit to the Assembly of the Republic a bill aimed at consolidating in the Portuguese Legal Order the recommendations of the Council of Europe Convention on Sexual Abuse of Children. In 2009, the Government took important steps in this area, when it established a regime for measuring fitness in access to functions involving regular contact with minors and at the same time defined a special regime for the maintenance of the condemnation register. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u76	We now propose the introduction of a new legal type of crime, punishing those who propose to a minor, by any means, a face-to-face meeting with the aim of practising, encouraging, favoring or facilitating the practice of crimes of sexual abuse, prostitution or Leninium of minors. We also propose the criminalization of assistance to the pornographic spectacle involving minors, at the same time that the criminal framework is aggravated in all crimes of sexual abuse against minors or their exploitation, when the facts are carried out jointly by two or more persons. With this legislative initiative, we seek to see what still could and should be done in relation to the protection of minors against exploitation and sexual abuse, particularly in the field of criminal law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u77	It requires the Government, with this bill we are discussing today, to create a system for registering criminal convictions for crimes against the sexual self-determination of minors, a common list of pedophiles. On the basis, it argues the harmful consequences of such crimes for the full and harmonious development of victims, both emotionally and cognitively. Mr President, the crime of sexual abuse against minors and their exploitation are certainly of the most perverse crimes and those that affect us in our essence, either individually or as members of a society, which is also affected whenever a minor interrupts its full growth course. In each child we live what we have already been and in it we project the existence that will last beyond us. But the protection of minors is not exhausted or should be exhausted in the punitive field. Does the Ministry of Justice intend to protect minors, but is this Mystery the same as the current government that sent over 600 social security officials to the requalification list and withdrew to the protection committees of minors and young people at technical risk that are essential for their functioning at a time when children and young people at risk have grown up in the country? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u79	Where was the Ministry of Justice when, last month, social security closed a college in Aveiro, integrated into the network of support for children at risk and spread them throughout the country in the middle of the school year and away from their families? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u80	What a lack of sensitivity! What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u81	Where is the protection of children in a country with 31% of children under the age of 18 at risk of poverty? Justice is blind, but unfortunately the Ministry of Justice is also blind. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u82	What a lack of arguments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u83	Let us be clear: the crime of pedophilia is very perverse, we have already said it. Touch us all. No citizen is indifferent whenever a child is a victim of such crimes. We react emotionally as long as we feel, suffer and want to react to the crime that denies the values we most cherish. But should it not be the State for this very rational, far from the emotion of the nature of being and seek the fair measure of action and reaction? It says the Ministry of Justice that the measure is preventive. It's more than that. It is a constitutionally prohibited security measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam President, it is dangerous for a State to have us spy on each other. It is hypocritical that a State throws the burden of prevention on its citizens, leaving children to their destination when it withdraws them from the prevention technicians of children and young people at risk. And this is unconstitutional, manifestly unconstitutional, as all opinions refer to it, either from the judiciary or the Public Prosecutor's Office, or from the Advocates' Order, or from the National Data Protection Commission, as stated yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u84	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u85	It is time to look at justice, in the broader constitutional sense. That is to say, we look at the way the State treats its citizen, because it is in this day-to-day relationship that it is built, that it densityes itself and that the state of democratic law is realized. But the opposite is also true: the democratic rule of law also deconstructs, also fades away, also chokes when the citizen, ignored in the fullness of his essence, ceases to be and becomes a mere instrument of power. It is also this turning point that we are debating here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u86	To present Bill No. 886 / XII of the PCP, Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u87	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: The CFP today brings to this discussion a bill with a set of measures with a view to adopting in this Parliament a national strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. I believe that there is something about which, in this Chamber, you will never find any different opinion than that the fight against sexual abuse and the sexual exploitation of children should deserve all commitment, whatever the political perspective we have on these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u89	Mr Minister, I am not going to deal with qualifications for your intervention, but, of the concrete references you have made, it merely withdrew the conclusion that all this should motivate all commitment, whatever the political perspective each one has, in preventing and combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, contrary to what the Government's bill does, we are here presenting a project that puts the fight against recurrence, not the prevention of recurrence, but the prevention of the first sexual abuse against children and young people. We present a set of proposals and measures that, in articulated manner, not only on the basis of different responsibilities but in different spheres of action and intervention, seek to create an intervention framework in order to prevent and combat sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children and protect the rights of children who are victims of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse. Thus, we present a set of concrete proposals with concrete objectives aimed at eradicating these problems in Portugal by planning the intervention of the State, public bodies and communities in the prevention of exploitation and sexual abuse of children, with effective measures to prevent the risks of acts of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, with the organization of specific campaigns of clarification and information, at the public level, but also with administrative, political and other measures with the same objective. Madam Minister, we also seek to articulate the intervention which in different spheres is not only taken by the Government but by other entities, including the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Justice, Education, Health, social security, the Advocates' Order and the unions of mercy or private institutions of social solidarity. This is because, Madam Minister, we are aware that prevention and combating sexual abuse of minors and sexual exploitation of minors is a battle that must be taken by all those who have an intervention to take. Mr. Minister, I would like to recall here a very specific question: two weeks ago, in the Assembly of the Republic, when the CFP brought to the discussion a bill that provided for the withdrawal of consent to the intervention of the children and youth protection committees when the aggressor was one of the parents of that child, the benches that today support the proposal that Mrs. Minister here today comes to defend, unfortunately, this proposal from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u91	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u92	It would have been better if at that time they had heeded the question brought here and allowed the protection committees of children and young people, at least, to look away from this obstacle. But we will be going there on other matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u94	Madam Minister, with regard to the proposed law that brings us here there are other factors of disagreement that not only the list of paedophiles, because the bill is not only the list of paedophiles and there are other aspects that deserve our disagreement, but I will focus my appreciation only on this aspect to say that, on the side of the CFP Parliamentary Group, there is a frontal opposition to the proposal that brings us here for three fundamental reasons: first, because the Government's bill is concerned about the sexual abuse of minors after there has been abuse but is not concerned about avoiding the first abuse. The whole focus is placed on recurrence and not on the prevention of the first abuse and, we believe, this should be the priority. Secondly, this proposal for the Government's law abandons and questions objectives for the resocialisation of convicted persons, first opting for their stigmatization and for the extension of the effects of the condemnation. That's not the way, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u95	There's the test regimen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u96	Thirdly, this proposal for a government law replaces the action of the courts and the means of social reintegration, seeking to replace it by the social alarm and surveillance of one person over the other. And, Madam Minister, the Government's bill does all of this by violating the Constitution and violating the structural principles of our legal-constitutional order, such as the principles of proportionality in a broad sense, and in a strict sense also, the principle of necessity and adequacy in the restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees, the principle of retroactivity, the principle of equality or the prohibition of concentration of personal data. Mr Minister, the Government is presenting this bill focusing on recurrence when there are no elements or studies, national or international, that justify this approach,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u97	Oh, come on, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u98	... on the contrary, there is also a study that, at the national level, shows that only 3, 4 % of convicted persons had a history of the same type of crime and that 51, 1 % had a family relationship with the victims. To these concrete questions, Mrs Minister, your proposal for a law does not give a single answer. More: the bill makes this approach to recurrence when what was decisive was to focus on the prevention of the first abuse, on the prevention of all those circumstances in which someone who does not have a criminal record for the practice of this crime but who ultimately practices it. This should be where the Government's approach should be put, and the Government's proposal for law would eventually decentralise this attention and priority. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, rather than respecting the competences of the courts, doctors, psychologists, social workers, the whole social reintegration system, what the Government is doing is actually creating a social alarm climate, seeking to put people to watch each other without measuring the consequences of the proposals made here. And it is not just us who say it, Mr. Minister, is the Public Prosecutor's Office, is the Attorney-General of the Republic, is the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, is the Judicial Magistrature, is the Order of Lawyers and others. As the Minister here brought the example of the United Kingdom, I will read to her a quote from an English researcher, Terry Thomas, who, last September in Porto, at a conference on these matters said: « The tabloid press managed to get to the lists and published names and addresses of aggressors. Some were assaulted by neighbors and some had committed suicide».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u99	Who causes social alarm now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u100	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u101	The Minister is certainly not a party to the justice of the 'eye for eye for tooth' and one of the fundamental principles of a criminal system of a democratic regime is the objective of resocializing convicted persons. Now, with stigmatizing logics such as those proposed here, these fundamental principles are opposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u102	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u103	I conclude by saying the following: with this proposal, what the Government is proposing is indeed the creation of a register which neither the directive nor the Lanzarote Convention impose as mandatory, placing as optional recommendations 43 and 37. the Convention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u104	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u105	It proposes the creation of a register not only covering pedophilia, it covers all sexual crimes, but making a distinction, because it leaves out foreign citizens, which questions the effectiveness of the proposal. It proposes access to the register which goes far beyond that provided for in the Directive and the Convention, allowing access to information far beyond the universe to which prevention and criminal investigation are responsible. So, Mr. Minister, indeed, what is in issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u106	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u107	I shall conclude, Madam President. As you said, Minister, what is at stake is the effective abandonment of any resocialization perspective. Madam Minister, in conclusion, I wanted to leave this final note: even in the preparation of the bill...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u108	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude. I'm sorry, but you've been beyond your time in more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u109	You should have taken into account the opinions that have been given to you and have not, and even a new Article 69. in addition to the one already in the Criminal Code, you eventually reproduce. It was better if they had listened to the partners and the recommendations made, in particular by the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u110	Not like that! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u111	For the Left Block, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister of Justice has not given up on time and I realize that she does not want to answer difficult questions. Mrs Justice, there is certainly one aspect that unites us, the sexual violence against children, the crimes we speak of, are heinous crimes, move in the deepest of each and every one of us. It touches on each parent, on each mother, on each grandmother, on each grandfather, whether he is in here or out, it touches on the deepest, Mrs. Minister of Justice, and that is why, when we talk about this intense turmoil of feelings, we should make an invitation to reason and the Minister of Justice does not accept this invitation to reason. Mrs. Minister, we agree. Is there much to do in defense of our children and our young people? There's, there's a lot to do! Are data from the annual internal security report on sexual abuse of minors increasingly worrying? They are! You need to do a lot of things? A lot needs to be done! We agree with that! Now, I'm going to have the discussion on the terms in which Mrs. Minister put it. The Minister has a 32-page bill reduced to an annex, to a few points in the annex, i.e. to the list of paedophiles and, above all, to access this list by whom she has parental responsibilities. I would like to stress again the question that concerns all of us: how much does this cost the country and, above all, what is it worth? What is this measure for? What is this list? Testimony! The Minister of Justice, when she knows that most of the sexual crimes are committed inside the house, at the door of the house or at the house walls, when she knows that the data in the annual internal security report, for example, tell us that, regarding sexual abuse of children, the unknown are 5 %, because the vast majority are familiar and are known...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u113	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u114	... in different proximity stages, I want to ask you why you come here to find a list to chase and hunt unknown when they correspond to a overwhelming statistical minority of sexual abusers. For what? Show us the studies, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u115	There are many arguments! Tell me what you want, you don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u116	She is well aware that her proposal goes far beyond French and English legislation, which does not provide for private access. Mrs. Minister knows very well about this. It shows a study that is, I repeat, a study that is, that says: « This list, in which I will allow parents access to this information, will prevent combating sexual crimes against children and minors ». You're not going, Minister, you're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u117	Help!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u118	The list objectively does not prevent anything, but there is a reality that the Minister did not want to prevent either. He spoke to us here in cases of the past and I don't know exactly what country he lives in, because then I ask him: when you start to circulate lists of pedophiles and sex criminals with false and true names, I know that your imagination comes very well for the vehicular names and for what will happen to them, now to the false, who will never go straight again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u119	Only convicted!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u120	Mrs. Minister, I repeat, I don't know exactly what country she lives in. This discussion had to be a serious discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u121	Yeah, he did!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u122	Could not connect with command "%s": %s. It had to be a discussion on prevention, on what must be done by our children and, in order to be serious, the Minister of Justice had to take into account all the opinions, the views of the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the unions of judges, associations and organizations of all professionals involved in the area, including the Minister of Justice of its own, of those who have already raised the voice to say that this list makes no sense in these terms — that is, perhaps, there is such discipline of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u123	There is no vote discipline!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u124	Madam Minister, I am afraid that you would like to carry this banner practically by yourself, as if this were a crusade, perhaps useful on the way to the election campaign, where the Minister of Justice will be with the CDS. Is this your adventure with this proposal, Minister for Justice?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u125	It's a good adventure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u126	None of the supranational documents or instruments, nor the Directive nor the Convention, link any database of convicted persons. The directive makes this possibility optional, restricted to judicial and police authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u128	... and both instruments invoke absolute respect for personal data. He forgot what is written in supranational instruments. It is neither in the Convention nor in the Directive. Moreover, with regard to personal data, the government did not even remember that there was a National Data Protection Commission. The opinion arrived last night, but the government completely forgot the specificity of this Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u129	It's not like he got here last night! By the way...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u130	If this discussion were serious, she considered the need for many more means to prevent and combat and the government did not whistle on the side, completely deprotecting the protection committees of minors and children at risk, she did not whistle on the side in such sensitive matters as technicians and support throughout the prevention strategy. If this discussion was serious, Mrs. Minister, she assumed that the danger is, above all, inside and around the house. In fact, we have long been presenting an initiative here, for which we await the availability of the majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u131	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u132	I shall conclude, Madam President, with some tolerance, such as that which you have had with other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u133	The tolerance, Mrs Deputy, does not depend on me, depends on the disobedience of the Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u134	Madam President, I will conclude by accepting this tolerance. We have long waited for the availability of the majority, for example, for a Left Block proposal that inhibits parental responsibilities to all those who are sexual aggressors, or to discuss the worsening of penalties for sexual crimes involving children and young people. We are waiting for that availability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u135	That's on this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u136	But if this initiative was not biased, the Minister of Justice would safeguard matters as sensitive as the forecast of any mechanism that would allow the visader to reassess his mention in the register, he would take into account the low penalty for false information or the penalty for breaking the secret.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u137	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u138	In conclusion, Madam President, quoting the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor : « It will therefore be a secret of polychinello(... ) The bell will be attached to the belt of the visa(...) ». That's it, Minister of Justice! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u139	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Justice, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality: First of all, and eventually, in this last speech, I would like to say that it is absolutely true that the Minister for Justice is not alone in this proposal, it is absolutely true that the Minister has the CDS next to her in this proposal, and I have no doubt that the Minister has the PSD next to her in this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u141	And there's no one else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u142	But I am also perfectly convinced that the Minister has in her side on this proposal the majority of Portuguese, who are people of good sense and who want to protect our children. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I have no doubt about that, Minister for Justice! Moreover, some opposition parties have here made a discussion about the means and lack of them. I will not repeat, again, this discussion, which we have had here many times, the Socialist Party itself does not like it and therefore I will not ask the question again in the sense of knowing where the Socialist Party was when the country no longer had the means and was led to bankruptcy. [[PS protests.]] It's not worth it, we've discussed this sometimes without account. Come on, now, discuss what's at stake...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u143	He's always around!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u144	There is no more of that, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, let's go to the point of interest. What is at stake here is sexual abuse of minors and their criminalization. This is the subject that is on the agenda and we are not going to run to the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u145	So don't run away!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u146	About that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say that the regime proposed here, in our view, is a more modern regime, which brings Portugal closer to what is most advanced in this type of combat and action in relation to sexual abuse, in particular sexual abuse of minors. Why? Because it exacerbates sanctions, extends the regime of proof to those convicted of these crimes, reinforces the criminalization of conduct relating to pornography, where, moreover, we have history, so to speak, since there have been several proposals in the past, and, above all, appropriate Portuguese legislation to those which are today the major non-Portuguese but international concerns—and I recognize that the Socialist Party's proposals also go that way, but we will have the opportunity to discuss, because the discussion does not end here today—which have to do with, in particular, with the Internet, such as Internet advocacy and the use of the Internet for pornography. That is why this proposal is more modern and modern. I accompanied the discussion of the Lanzarote Convention, either in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or here in the Assembly of the Republic, for its ratification, and I believe that this bill actually goes a long way towards meeting what the Lanzarote Convention proposes and defends. On the other hand, it has already been said — in fact, the Minister mentioned it, and well — that we must not forget that these types of crimes are not decreasing, is increasing. The latest Annual Internal Security Report refers to an increase of almost 18 % of the crimes of sexual abuse of minors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u148	...in a scenario in which, globally, crime is low. Therefore, it is a fact, obviously, very worrying and important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u150	The first penalties came from 2009, with a proposal from the CDS in 2008, in particular regarding the professions and the impossibility of those committing these crimes being close to the minors. This is a sensitive and central issue in this debate. No one ignores, and we also do not ignore, that in the matter of registration there has to be a weighting and a balance of values, because there is not a single value, there are different values in weighting. We spoke about the right to privacy and whether or not it was an excessive penalty, which was the second argument we heard here. But will these be the only values? Don't! There are other values, such as the right to personality formation and the development of children, the right to freedom and security for children and the right of parents to protect their children, which, more than a duty, is a fundamental right, and this proposal obviously aims to ensure that. Mr. João Oliveira says that the directive does not impose it. No, Mr, the directive may not impose it, but imposes it on our conscience and the duty to protect children. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it possible to restrict rights? It is possible, and the whole constitutional doctrine refers to it, in particular if the restriction of rights is based on the protection of other fundamental rights and values. That is why the restriction of rights is possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u151	That is the rule of Article 18. Oh! It's nothing new!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u152	Of course, we also know that — we cannot ignore it because there are certainly many studies, testimonies, statements, statements, even statements in this kind of process that are going on in this direction — which is a compulsive behaviour. How many times have we heard this? Oh, my God! How many times have we seen, in documentaries, reports, analyses of this matter, that there are many cases in which there is obviously a compulsive behaviour? Oh, my God! And if it is a compulsive behavior, there is, of course, a risk, that populist risk that Mr spoke about, which is one condemned by this type of crime that can be subjected to some kind of invectiveness or some form of popular condemnation or justice. Is it clear that there is such a risk, Mr President, but then what about the risk that minors are facing? Oh, my God! Where is the protection of minors? Oh, my God! Doesn't that exist? Oh, my God! It's just, sirs. Members, it gives us the feeling that sometimes we are so concerned about protecting the wolf that we forget about the flock. Often, that seems to be what's happening, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u153	And what does the list solve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u154	They also speak in perpetual penance. It is clear that whoever committed a crime like this, whether we want it or not, will be marked by the crime he committed. But this marking has deadlines, there are deadlines for this list. On the other hand, it is not anyone who has access to it, it is the parents, for example, who are responsible for education, when they detect behavior that seems at risk themselves, such as following a child, trying to enter a school, permanently pursuing a child. From there on, what does this law allow, and what, for us, is positive? It allows an interaction between these same parents and the security forces, as is evident, because, by alerting the security forces, by verifying the record and the record, of course, can determine an action, which is positive from the point of view of combating crime. They are marked — it is true, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! — but, as has been said here, well, those who are most marked in this type of crime are the victims. Those are almost always marked for life. I shall finish, saying the following, Mr. Members: the law has been made to protect the victims of the criminals and not the other way around. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u155	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u156	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: I begin with this reference which Mr Telmo Correia has just made: if there is any perpetual penalty, it is for children. This is the only perpetual penalty that occurs in the context of crimes against the self-determination and sexual freedom of children and that is what we must first and foremost address. But let's look at this diploma that the Minister here brings us. Do you have hard solutions? Yes, there are difficult solutions! Do you have solutions for which we need to find fair balance and fair weight? It is true that yes and that is why the Minister and the Government bring to this Parliament a bill that lists a set of preventive and condemnatory measures in relation to what is a social scourge. If, on the one hand, in this diploma that brings us here, the Minister advocates the worsening of the penalties, on the other hand, it establishes the prohibition of contact with children of those who have already had a conviction for the practice of these crimes, as well as the prohibition of professional activities in which they have contact with minors. And in this area, I think it's all peaceful, because no one has raised their voice. It is necessary to prevent those who have already been convicted of the practice of these crimes from exercising professions in the context of permanent contact with minors. And that's why Mrs. Minister, in this bill that brings us here...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u157	But the list doesn't solve that problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u158	You have to listen, because it is not the list that serves these cases, it is the criminal registration certificate that this bill introduces, requiring all employers, in the context of activities in which you have contact with minors, to have to apply annually for any worker who hires. In addition, in the context of these activities in a school, for example, Mrs. Minister, the certificate must be renewed annually not only in future situations but also in relation to those who, because of their antiquity, are not currently within the parameters of that list or criminal certificate. I would therefore like to say that any private entity can request such information by requiring the criminal certificate of such persons.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u159	You can! That's already happening!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u160	The same is said about a school institution, which can also request this certificate and have access to information. Mr Magalhães says that this has already happened and we agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u161	It's in force!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u162	The PS agrees that those who administer a school, and may even be a particular college, may request a criminal certificate concerning person A, official A. This criminal certificate provides information to that private entity and will be shared by the one who asked for it and also by all those who have responsibilities, precisely within that school. What I don't understand is why you trust yourself, and I think you should rely on the institutions that administer school institutions or any other institutions where you contact minors and you don't trust those who have parental responsibilities. But in this Parliament, do you want to remove parental responsibility from the first line of responsibility for the protection of minors? Oh, my God! For our part, that is not what we want, our understanding is that the first line of responsibility for protecting minors is with those who exercise parental responsibility. This is the first line and, in a subsidiary way, the public authority will also have a decisive role to play. A set of arguments has been made available in the context of the opinions that have been requested from the entities we respect. We respect, but that does not mean that we agree with all the arguments made by these entities, just as these entities do not agree with any of the arguments we have brought up, and, Madam Minister, we are talking about Parliament, we are talking about Government, we are talking about the European Court of Human Rights, we are talking about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. in this context, let it be clear that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe also adopted a resolution addressed to the States, precisely recommending that a database be set up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u164	... that you can allow the exchange of information, because of the free movement of people in the European Union, people who can move freely to the practice of these crimes and who, as you know, are already in the process of organised crime because not only of the scope of human trafficking but also of the computerized means that are available to commit, as the Minister said, almost a minute ago, heinous crimes of this nature. This is the reality, it is the substrate of our action. And it is precisely because this scourge is installed not only in Portugal but also in Europe and it has no borders — we are talking about transnational crimes with which international organisations are concerned with recommendations that allow, as far as possible, harmonisation or even substantial harmonisation of internal rights in this area — that arise from these calls from international organisations, whether from the European Union or from the Council of Europe, in the sense that a database is created. Now, what is the function of this database? It's a exclusively preventive function. It is precisely within the scope of the proximity police that it is possible for the police to monitor individuals with these characteristics, precisely because of their propensity for recurrence. I would like to remind you, Mrs Minister, that we have heard a number of psychologists and we will hear others in the course of the debate in 1. the Commission, but we have heard some psychiatrists tell us - that neither chemical castration has an inhibitory effect of compulsion, because it has effect, inhibiting certain practices, but allows the impulse to take place in other ways. And it is against this scourge that we want preventive measures that allow the police to monitor those who have this propensity, on the one hand, but we also want parental responsibilities in protecting children, on the first line. We don't want to hear parents say that they didn't realize what was going on with their children in this matter... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u165	The Bureau records a PS entry for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Oneto. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u166	Madam President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho : I just wanted to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u167	Me? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u168	Of course I do. You just made an intervention and I would like to ask you a question. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u169	I ask you the following: if a father goes to a station, why do you understand that there are suspicions about a neighbor, and he is not on the list, does that father diminish the surveillance he has about the minor? Is that what you think? [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u170	The Bureau had the information that the PS would produce an intervention but, after all, it was a request for clarification. As Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit still has time, she has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u171	Madam President, Mrs Isabel Oneto, although she did not understand your question, I will try to answer you. [[PS protests.]] If a parent goes to a team to ask for information about someone who has founded suspicions and there is a sign of their integration in the list is good father, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u172	I was asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell the Bureau what effect they are on. Mrs. Isabel Oneto asked for the floor again. It's for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u173	Madam President, it is for a new request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u174	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u175	Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I am recasting my request for clarification. Does the honourable Member understand that if a father goes to a station because he considers the neighbor to be suspicious, but the neighbor's name does not appear on the list, because of this, the father decreases surveillance over the neighbor and the minor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u176	No, no, no. But if you can see it, it's getting bigger!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u177	It is not with you, Mr Telmo Correia!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u178	Well asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u179	Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u180	Madam President, Madam Member, I will say-CL to you that I do not think that it does not diminish. [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u181	Mrs. Isabel Oneto asked the Bureau for a word. Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u182	Madam President, it was now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u183	Please, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this matter and in order to conclude, in part of the Socialist Party, I would like to make it clear that since 2009 public and private entities, either for free or costly contracts, have the possibility to request the criminal registration of candidates for the exercise of functions that deal with minors to measure their suitability. The difference, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in which these entities have to make the contract, that they have to decide whether the candidate is suitable or not. And the criminal record that Mrs Deputy spoke recently already exists. It is precisely called a criminal record and in it are all those convicted of sexual abuse of minors and all the others who have been convicted in this country. in this criminal record, there's the information. Therefore, there is no doubt in this matter: we already have a list of convicts in the country. They're all there! They're all there! Open... What does the Trade Union of the Portuguese Judges say on this matter? I am going to be quoting a sentence of your opinion, namely: "(...) there is no evidence of any utility in terms of general prevention, which goes beyond a populist, demagogic, dangerous and inconsequential dimension with a criminal law that has shown over the years that, in its essence, is unequivocally functional, even if sustained in a matrix of respect for fundamental rights. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u185	Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, signed up for an intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to point out that, as Mrs Isabel Oneto has just said and as I have already mentioned today, private entities can already access this information. I would also like to make it very clear that this discussion has been conducted in accordance with certain mechanisms which often distort what is actually being debated. I therefore make it clear here that all these convicted by practice of these crimes are condemned in a public trial, through a sentence or a judgment which are public, and may, in any event, be consulted in their courts and, sometimes, are even published on the sites of these courts, with or without the name truncated. In other words, when a crime is committed and condemned for that crime, that fact obviously remains in the criminal record of convicted persons. And, in my view, it is regrettable that, through an opinion, a union of magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office — in this particular case that Mrs Isabel Oneto quoted — comes to say that the Government and the parliamentary majority, elected by direct and secret universal suffrage, intend to be populist. [[PS protests.]] When we ask for opinions from a trade union or any other entity, we do so to make contributions that may be useful for reflection on issues that are serious and that deserve proper consideration. [[PS Protests and PCP Deputy Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u187	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u188	I shall now conclude by saying that when these opinions raise argumentation of populism, it is soon seen that this argument is a judgment of value, made in freedom of expression, of course. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] But that judgment of value, which is done, is of no benefit to us in moving forward with our legislative process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u189	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u190	No, Mrs Isabel Oneto, this legislative initiative is not populist; it is prevention mechanisms that will allow the police to police proximity — I repeat, to police proximity! — have information on the circuits where people who are prone to recurrence in this regard on behalf of children, children, for the protection of minors in Portugal. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u191	In order to speak, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u192	Mr President, just to mention that the opinion of the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges is an excellent contribution to democracy, because I say, and I repeat: "(...) there is no evidence of any utility, in terms of general prevention, that goes beyond a populist, demagogic, dangerous and inconsequential dimension(...)". All that is done, on behalf of the children, with this is indeed pure demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u193	Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the general debate on the proposal for a law No 305 / XII ( 4 ) is concluded here. ( a). Before we move on to the third point of our agenda, we will wait for the time needed for government members to see themselves at the government bench. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please resume your seats and take advantage of this to greet the Minister of Internal Administration and the Secretary of State of the Internal Administration. Let us then proceed to the general discussion of Bill No. 319 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July adopting the Basics of Civil Protection Act. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moments of uncertainty require certainty in planning, certainty in commitment of forces and certainty in action. After more than eight years on the entry into force of the Civil Protection Bases Act, an update of its provisions is required, with a view to its continuing adaptation to the requirements of the present and the anticipation of the challenges of the future. Without prejudice to recognizing the need for legislative stability, it is important not to lose sight of the fact that a diploma with the operational relevance of the Civil Protection Bases Act cannot be suspended over time. Thus, in order to enable the agents involved to schedule and develop their activities, in a framework of operation well known to all, the Government shall present to the Assembly of the Republic this bill where, clarifying, identifying and defining the different actors and competences, both in the planning plan, and in the operational implementation and coordination aspect. of the main amendments that we present to this House today are to highlight the introduction of a subsidiarity relationship between the various acts of declaration of alert, contingency and calamity, as well as their clarification in order to establish the rule which obliges the previous existence of acts of previous patamar before a given declaration takes place. The development of the proposed amendments also contributed to the various administrative changes in the country, including the extinction of civil governments. So if we are talking about a document with a strong operational component, there is a dimension that should not be overlooked: the political decision. in this sense, it is also promoted, with regard to the composition of civil protection committees, an amendment aimed at strengthening its character of political coordination structures. Speaking also of actors and entities with a duty to cooperate in the field of civil protection, a specific framework is created for spaces under the jurisdiction of the maritime authority. Based on the experience of the implementation of the previous law, this proposal deserved an extended debate for which all members of the National Civil Protection Commission contributed. This was an essentially technical debate and there is now room for political consensus in the course of the process we are starting today. For its part, the Government is available to make all the clarifications at the centre of discussion in the specialty. The prevention of collective risks inherent in situations of serious accident or disaster, the mitigation of its effects, the protection and relief of persons and goods in danger requires certainty in the action, and that is why the Government submits this bill. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u195	The Bureau registered Ms Francisca Almeida, PSD, and Mr Miguel Freitas, PS, for requests for clarification. In the meantime, she informed the Minister that she would answer the questions put together. Mrs Francisca Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u196	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr Secretaries of States, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Minister, in her speech, referred to the extinction of civil governments and it is true that last year 2011 the administrative organization of our country was significantly altered with this extinction. At this time, remember, and I remember, because I made this debate on the side of the PSD Parliamentary Group — the Socialist Party was predicting the greatest catastrophes with the extinction of civil governments. According to the Socialist Party, the extinction of civil governments would ruin the constitutional architecture of our country...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u197	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u198	... and would drag with you the civil protection itself To date, Mr Luís Pita Amisema asked: "Who will make civil protection, relief and security forces compatible in the field? And he also said: « The governor is not replaced by the official of the service, nor the state of emergency must be decreed, perhaps the chief fireman or the centre of operations, and it is not seen how the Armed Forces can be mobilized. And he continued: "Not even the electoral process, namely the author, should be directed by the president of the chamber concerned. Do not keep on seeking. ” Finally, according to Mr Luís Pita Amisema, as I said, the constitutional architecture of our country, which would drag with you the civil protection itself. In the end, Mr Luís Pita Amisexa still prophesied: « From now on, the government door retreats to the arcades of the Land of Peace and closes in the district. Do not keep on seeking. ” Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, almost four years ago, that we know nothing of this happened. In fact, and within the framework of civil protection, amendments have been made to safeguard the chain of command, in particular as regards the identification of entities that have replaced the civil governors with the powers assigned to them. For example, the declaration of the state of emergency became the responsibility of the president of the National Civil Protection Authority prior to the hearing, whenever possible, of the presidents of the municipal chambers of the municipalities involved. Civil protection has not, as you can see and as you have seen, been damaged by the extinction of civil governments, but this is, and we are aware of it, the first law of bases which is discussed in this Parliament on this subject, with this new administrative framework. Therefore, Mrs Minister, my question, at this first moment of the debate, could not be anything other than knowing what implications it had and has in the new proposal to amend the Civil Protection Bases Act the extinction of civil governments. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u199	For a request for clarification, Mr Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u200	Mr President, Minister, the timing of this amendment to the Civil Protection Basics Act is at least questionable. First, because we are at the end of a legislature and altering a basic law right now is questionable. But it is also so — and I would like to leave this warning to the Minister — when it is done in a period preceding the time of forest fires. I hope that there will not be a repetition of the 2013 error on this subject, because here there are changes that have to do with relations between the different civil protection agents. Therefore, it is necessary to be careful, so that we do not create, with this change, a noise in these relationships. But the amendment of a Basics of Civil Protection Act must also be a moment of demand for a consensus in the Assembly of the Republic, so the PS rejects the tone used in the intervention of Mrs Francisca Almeida on what is a question which the PS has in fact brought to this House and on which it continues to express its concern. [[PSD protests.]] It was precisely this way that I would like to begin to ask a number of questions that I have to ask the Minister. Understanding that it does not bring great changes and that what it intends to do is to justify, by updating, what changes have been made by this Government in the field of civil protection, in fact, this proposal does not clarify what should be clarified. It does not, of course, clarify what is political authority, technical authority and operational authority, particularly with regard to regional level. That is, they have destroyed civil governors, but they have not replaced them by any district authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u201	And why are they done?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u202	The first question I put to you, Mrs Minister, has to do with the fact that you have now created a file which is a camera president who will chair the district civil protection committee, which, however, is a political authority, does not have the power to declare the state of alert. This is, at the municipal level, who declares the state of alert is a chamber president, i.e. the political authority; at the national level, it is also the political authority; but at the district level, it is not the political authority, it is still the technical authority, which means fragility in the solution found by the government for the replacement of civil governments. Then, Mrs. Minister, I wanted to ask you about the fact that you ended up with the municipal operational commander.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u203	Mr President ( Guilherme Silva): — Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. I would like to know if they replace you with a new coordinator, a new figure. We could not understand how this is done, since the law setting that creates, exactly, the municipal operational commander, Law No. 65/2007, has not been changed. So they're changing the Basics Law without changing that law and I'd like to know how it's going to be done. I shall finish, Madam Minister, with one last question, which has to do with the non-integration of GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Groups) of GNR and FEB (Special Fire Force) into civil protection agents. What is the justification for GNR GIPS to continue to be outside the civil protection agents? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u205	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u206	Mr President, Mrs Francisca Almeida, would begin by replying to you saying that the extinction of civil governments really implies a new logic of political coordination. And one of the purposes of this bill, by introducing amendments to the district civil protection committees, is to respond to this new logic of political coordination. For example, for district committees, they are designated by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities three chamber presidents, being determined which of them is chairing. Mr. Miguel Freitas, I would like to begin by telling you that it is precisely to adapt to the new reality that this amendment to the Basic Law is made. It is therefore in order to adapt to the new reality that lives, especially with the extinction of civil governments. As regards Law No 65 / 2007, it will be amended in the course of the adoption of this Basic Law—if it is approved, of course. This proposal of the Basics Law has a technical assumption and, according to that, there is a new composition of the district civil protection committees. They are part of these district civil protection committees, for example, all ministries, all of which have their representation. The autonomous regions also become full members, as well as the national maritime authority and other authorities that can contribute specifically to civil protection. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u207	To request clarification, Mr. Abel Baptista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u208	Mr President, Minister, today to debate the amendments to the Civil Protection Basics Act, based on the document presented to us, is a sign that sustained and sustainable progress has been made with regard to civil protection. Civil protection is certainly not one of the issues of ideological intervention. There is a need here to ensure permanent security for people, predictability of disasters or imminent danger. This is what has been done and this bill, as has been mentioned, and well by the Minister is an eminently technical proposal, which has to do with the organization, with "who is it" within the civil protection system, from the national, the regional, the municipal and, in some situations, even going to the infra-municipal, to the parts of a territory in a municipality, in the case of the alert where it is referred to. However, as an eminently technical proposal, it is clear that it is a political issue and the two fundamental political issues that are here are the issue of the districts and that of the autonomous regions. In fact, these issues are only at these two levels, because at the level of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, either the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, or that of the Azores, gave a favourable opinion on this bill. of the Government of Madeira there was a favourable opinion, of the Government of the Azores there was an unfavorable opinion, as well as of the National Association of Municipalities, but it is necessary to explain why. And what was it that was unfavorable? The unfavorable opinion of the Regional Government of the Azores states that « attention has not been paid to the Autonomous Regions...», «the Regional Government has no role to play here that can declare certain situations... ». I would also like to ask the Government whether or not we can make a slight change in terms of discussion on the subject. On the other hand, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities basically says two things. The first thing that says is that « well, we no longer have districts, there is no civil government, there are the CIMs (Intermunicipal Communities), there are the NUTs (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) and not always the CIMs and the NUTs coincide with what is the district,...» — even more — «... with the exception of Viana do Castelo and the Algarve, where the CIM itself coincides with the district». There are some situations here that we might have to look at. The organization of municipalities and CIMs does not necessarily have to be the whole of the state. It does not necessarily have to be that way. At the level of organization, the vast majority of discentred services in the State still maintain district solutions: social security, some bodies linked to the Ministry of Finance, district finance management, some health organizations still maintain many of the district references. But this is something that may perhaps also be put on the table for discussion. The second thing that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities emphasizes is that the president of the chamber is the municipal civil protection authority. It also seems to me that this is not, at all, irrelevant to the issue of the law, until the law of local authorities itself says that it is the president of the chamber which is the municipal civil protection authority. In other words, in the political context, we can say that this too is not a conflicting law, which gives great prospect of debate, but I think it should be operational later in its implementation. And then, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, I think we need to take care of all the civil protection agents are motivated, sensitized, in a well structured and well hierarchical organization, so that all this can work perfectly. Civil protection today is no longer just a relief problem. It is, above all, a risk prevention and monitoring organisation and, if necessary, it must have a perfectly well organized aid. Mr Freitas asked where are the GIPS, especially in the case of forest fires. Mr. Member, then perhaps we should also have the transit squad, we should also have the GNR in the field of nature protection...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u209	They're different hierarchies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u210	No, Mr. José Magalhães, they are at the same level. For example, when there is a disaster that affects the roads, perhaps it is the GNR transit squad that goes there. Therefore, who must be present is the organization, police authority, in the case paramilitary force, which is the GNR, which is the PSP, which is the maritime authority. It is a novelty in this Civil Protection Basics Act that we will include the maritime authority in order to predict many of the situations that concern the fishing area, where, of course, there have been many accidents. It has not happened so many times in the rest of the maritime navigation, but in the fisheries area, yes, it makes a lot of sense that the maritime authority is present, especially in the area of prevention and no longer in the area of relief. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u211	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u212	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: This bill is therefore presented with the aim of, in a lasting way, solving the problem of adapting the civil protection structure to the decision—with which we agreed—to extinguish the figure of the civil governor, despite the 2011 diploma already sought to solve this problem, because, in fact, the abrupt extinction of this figure required a legislative adaptation which also had consequences for the level of the Civil Protection Bases Act. But now there is a more definitive solution, which contains some aspects to which I would like to refer, on behalf of the CFP bench. First of all—and although this relates directly to the issue at the district level of the civil governor—there is a constant measure of this bill, which is the extinction of the municipal operational commander. We have always disagreed with the creation of this figure by the previous government. A civil protection structure was created in which the municipalities were involved in a way that we considered inappropriate, with the creation of the figure of the municipal operational commander to respond directly to the district operational commander, forgetting that the municipalities are not structures of the central government of the state, not even of the indirect administration, are of the autonomous administration, they have their own legitimacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u213	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u214	Therefore, we have created here a structure in which the municipality pays and the government commands by interference of the district operational commander and we always disagreed about it. It seems to us that it is a good measure to distinguish the figure of the municipal operational commander, who has never been well understood by the municipalities and hence the obvious fact that many of them have never been appointed because the authorities refused to do so - and we well understand that position. Therefore, the creation of the figure proposed here by a municipal coordinator has another configuration and it seems to us that it can pacify the relationship with municipalities in civil protection with regard to this aspect. Regarding the problem that arises at district level, what happens is that the civilian governor has been extinguished, something that we do not dispute, but there is a possibility that a rehabilitation of the district at various levels, because district configuration maintains and now the judicial map resurrects the district, by establishing district capitals as district headquarters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u215	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u216	The proposal maintains the district, something that the association of municipalities contests. In fact, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities makes it appear unfavorable precisely on this basis, but we do not give it reason because we also do not agree with the solution they propose. Because if something has been clarified, even by the recent jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, it is that the inter-municipal communities are not local authorities, they cannot be.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u217	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u218	So, from our point of view, there was only one way to solve this problem, which was to comply with the Constitution, with the creation of the administrative regions. Then the problem became clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u219	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u220	That is, if we had the central government, the administrative regions, as the Constitution determines, and the municipalities, we had an intermediate and legitimate power structure between the government and the local administration and the problem was solved. As long as this local authority is not created, as the Constitution provides for, inter alia, between the Government and the municipalities, we will always go around with this problem without knowing whether it is resolved through the NUTs, through any communities or through the district, i.e. it is not resolved. So every Ministry is solving the problem as it can, that is, it's not solving it, it's going as it can.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u222	As long as an intermediate, democratically legitimate authority is not created, we are going to walk around here and we are going to review judicial maps, civil protection structures and whatever it is, in a way that we will continue with that problem of the total inconsistencies of our administrative organization, in which for one purpose we have one organization, for another we have another and for another we have another. So that problem won't be solved. What I wanted to say is that, in this bill, there are some aspects that we welcome, that we even consider to be positive and that give an interesting basis for discussion in the specialty. Therefore, this bill will not have our vote against it, but we believe that there are aspects that are not yet well resolved and that would justify a better discussion. I stress that we do not adhere to the position of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities to consider that this should be resolved on the basis of inter-municipal communities, not only because of disagreement with the configuration that this figure assumed, but because it is resolved that the inter-municipal communities are not local authorities, in any case there are aspects that we think should be improved and for that we have the discussion in the specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u223	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u224	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Minister of Internal Administration : We are discussing this proposal for amendment to the Civil Protection Basics Act, whose explanatory statement begins by invoking the extent of this debate, and well. We understand that it is important, in this discussion, to comply with the different opinions of the members of the National Civil Protection Commission as well as with the representatives of the National Frequencies Association and the National Association of Portuguese Firefighters. We hope that these opinions will reach us to make this debate richer. We note some clarification, or even positive, aspects of this bill. I believe that the most relevant aspects will perhaps be the forecast of subsidiarity as expressed in Article 8 ( 3 ). the, which refers to the special duty to collaborate the media as well as the telecommunications operators in an alert situation, is a relevant aspect, the extension of the composition of the National Civil Protection Commission, as well as of the district civil protection commissions, in addition to the revision of Article 50. the, relating to emergency plans or requests for collaboration. Therefore, there are aspects that are clarifiers or that deepen this whole network of competences and entities that must articulate in coherence in a determining matter for the country. Without subscribing to the concern or focus of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities on the CIMs — which I will talk about later — we believe that there are some aspects that can be considered, which are critical, resulting from a reflection that must be taken into account. In fact, the approach continues to be made in the area of civil protection, and now, that we review its basic law, which is much more focused on the response than on prevention, in a culture of much-engaged prevention. in this sense, in fact, it is worth stressing that all the work that is done in schools should be much deeper and more systematic and, perhaps, consider the expansion of the representation of schools in the different bodies provided for here. It is true that we speak of a representative of each ministry both in the national committee and in the district committees, but not objectively in this respect which, for us, is very important, particularly at the municipal level. It is also necessary to recognize that all of us, civil society is a first-line partner in the framework of civil protection and I had some expectations about greater protection, whether volunteering or even a given expectation as to the role that some NGOs (non-governmental organizations) have had in this framework. In any case, it has already been emphasized here — although we have no doubt about the inter-municipal communities and the fact that they are not authorities and that this discussion is now arranged — that there is no longer a collision route between the proposed law and Law No 75/2013, which I think it is appropriate to clarify, because in fact, the law has given these inter-municipal communities powers and, at the moment, some of them have the so-called inter-municipal plans for civil protection. We do not agree with the IGCs, but we believe that in the proposal there is either an investment of the government's own strategy on this matter, because in the past there was a much stronger commitment to the inter-municipal communities and their sphere of intervention in this area, or the need, in the proposal for a law, to resolve this conflict, to clarify it. It seems to us that this is an issue to be taken into account. In any case, there are relevant aspects here and, of course, in the field of expertise, we will also be available to appreciate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u226	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Simões Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u227	Mr President, Mrs Minister of Internal Administration, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: Civil protection has as its primary objective the prevention of collective risks inherent in situations of serious accident or disaster and to mitigate its effects and protect and rescue people and goods in danger. The current Civil Protection Bases Act, already mentioned here, has not changed for eight years, and must be, well, updated and adapted to reality, given the importance of the matter regulated by it. This amendment, today under discussion, derives from the experience of the law that is in force, but also from the various amendments that have been felt with the passing of these years, both legislatively and at the level of the country's own administrative structure. This is an example of the already mentioned extinction of civil governors, which has caused the Socialist Party so many chills. We thought the chills were already solved, but in this debate we realized that they still cause the Socialist Party concern. I even felt that they were missing civil governments—in fact, they must be the only Portuguese with the misses of civil governments. in this bill we would like to highlight some amendments proposed by the government. On the one hand, it is proposed to strengthen the application of the principle of subsidiarity between the various acts of declaration of alert, contingency and calamity, by recasting the content of its material scope and establishing the rule requiring the prior existence of acts of the previous regime whenever necessary in the declaration of the situation of contingency or calamity. As regards the composition of civil protection committees, its weight in the structure is also strengthened as political coordination structures. This is how we see the composition of the National Civil Protection Commission, the composition of the District Committees and also the composition of the Municipal Committees. Still with regard to district civil protection committees, the presidency is no longer assigned to a district operational commander, and this function is to be exercised, as has already been mentioned here, by one of the three chamber presidents indicated by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. We remember that, in the current law, it is not obliged to be chamber presidents but, yes, three representatives indicated by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. At the same time, the distinction and separation of competence between civil protection agents and entities having a duty to cooperate in the field of civil protection shall be clarified by promoting changes to Articles 46. o is 47. by introducing, moreover, a new article listing entities with a special duty of cooperation. Finally, I would also like to underline the specific framework given to the spaces under the jurisdiction of the maritime authority. This bill has already deserved an extended debate. The contributions of all the members of the National Civil Protection Commission, the bodies of the autonomous regions were mentioned here, and I would like to mention, in relation to the opinion of the Regional Azores Government, that the same was unfavourable in relation to the preliminary draft which was committed to them, but the Government accepted all the proposals and suggestions for amendment proposed by the Regional Azores Government at the hearing. In our view, these amendments are justified and appropriate for the purposes of updating this Basic Law here under discussion. It is now up to Parliament to appreciate, discuss, consensualise and approve this bill, always with the aim not only of obtaining the best solutions but above all of giving the necessary stability to those solutions. If it is essential that the law is updated and adapted to reality, it is no less necessary to give stability to legislative solutions, as this will allow the agents involved to program and develop their activities in an operational framework that is known, and well known, by everyone. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u228	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u229	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Internal Administration, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I think there will still be something that will have to be explained about the amendments that the Government is bringing us here. Above all, in order to define our sense of vote, we need to understand the meaning of the amendments. The Government reinforces the principle of subsidiarity with regard to the declaration of alert, contingency and calamity. But it does not do so in relation to emergency plans, which is the most essential. The essential thing is that, above all, the principle of subsidiarity should be guaranteed in the activation of municipal, district or any civil protection emergency plan. Why don't they? In fact, Mr. Paulo Ribeiro, our concern is not about the extinction of civil governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u230	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u231	Our concern is that there is no substitute for them on the ground. Let's say you're not there, nor is anyone else there. That's the big problem. The great problem with the extinction of civil governments is that in the last four years of this government, a single district plan has not been activated. And look at the Algarve well had been needed! Why hasn't any emergency district plan been activated? Wasn't it necessary when the Algarve was burning? Oh, my God! Wasn't it necessary when Caramulo was burning? Oh, my God! That is the problem with the extinction of civil governments. Concern is not about the extinction of civil governments; our concern is because we do not know who is there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u232	And there is another issue which I would like to see clarified and which has to do with the confusion I perceived between the concept of political authority and the concept of political coordination. It is that the national civil protection system has a political authority, has political coordination and has a single operational command. It has the sole operational command for the forces in the theatre of operations, it has the political coordination for the activation of the necessary agents on the ground, but it has to have a political authority in its own level. And you put the presidents of the chamber not as a political authority that is required at district level, but as presidents of a committee that is political coordination. Now, we cannot confuse coordination with authority or with command, these are completely different things. So, Minister, now, do we have Mr. President of the National Civil Protection Authority to activate the contingency situation that determines that the camera president must automatically activate the emergency district plan? Who's in charge of who? These issues need to be clarified in terms of understanding the concepts underlying the amendments herein. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u233	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government felt that it was necessary to adapt the Civil Protection Basics Act to a new reality, as has already been mentioned, and that it was necessary to update it on the basis of the eight-year experience of its application. I can list two points where there have been changes. One of them concerns the principle of subsidiarity. In general, this applies to any aspect to which the principle of subsidiarity applies. It is that it lies in need and, therefore, translates into the basic idea that the resources to be used should be adequate to the needs, not making sense to use them beyond what is necessary and sufficient. And that is the basis for concrete changes. Another amendment relates to the need for a new logic of political coordination, which is not confused with political authority. That is why, as I said recently, the district civil protection committees have changed, of them being part of the presidents of the chamber. And I would like to add this aspect: with this solution, political coordination is again appreciated, and with the advantage of legitimacy coming from the base, from the authorships. In any case, I would like to emphasize that this discussion resulted in a climate of consensus and that there were very constructive proposals made by everyone. Therefore, the debate in this climate of consensus and the proposals made here will allow us to leave here a law with amendments that will improve it, which is what we all want, for the sake of civil protection, which is the objective of these amendments. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u235	Mrs. Isabel Oneto asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u236	To request clarification, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u237	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u238	Mr President, Madam Minister, I am pleased that there is a distinction between political authority and political coordination. My question is this: as the system is organized between three levels of action — the municipal, the district and the national — and between three pillars — that of the national authority, that of political coordination and that of the single operational command, who is then the political authority of the district level, since it is not confused with district coordination? This is a question I would like you to answer. Another question has to do with the following: when the Minister refers to the operation of the means and resources most adapted to the occurrence, that is the general principle of civil protection. In fact, it is a generic principle that should act on the nearest means and resources, and the public to the detriment of the private, if necessary. That's what the law says. The question I raise concerns the following: Mrs Minister, there is no warning statement, a statement of contingency, at least in the last four years. There were, however, some emergency municipal plans that were activated — few, but they were. Where is the principle of subsidiarity fundamental in the implementation of emergency plans? When do you put yourself in the law—and there, yes, what does the experience of these years tell us is that we should determine it—that, from a certain occurrence, the activation of the emergency plan should automatically be required?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u239	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u240	I'm done now, Mr. President. If the Government had done so, Mrs Minister, it would have complied with the recommendations of a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic within a working group which has drawn up a report here, which was adopted unanimously. And I believe that the Government would have done very well if it had accepted this recommendation, adopted unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u241	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u242	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Oneto, I thank you for your questions. On the first question, I answer that, in accordance with the proposal now tabled, it is the President of the National Civil Protection Authority who has this competence. But, as I said in general, there is no reservation to discuss technical aspects in the specialty. With regard to the principle of subsidiarity, with regard to emergency plans, there is also no objection to the fact that this issue is discussed in the field of specialty — which does not mean that, in my view, it is the best solution. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u243	For a second intervention, Mr Paulo Simões Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u244	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Mr and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: In closing this debate, and in order to reassure the Socialist Party in particular, I would like to say that there is of course — and the Government has said this several times here by the voice of the Minister — the total availability for a deep discussion, in the field of expertise, and for the consensus of a law that serves the interests of civil protection, which, I am sure, is the goal of all, and to give it the necessary stability, with which we all agree. But there is one question that the PSD bench would not fail to underline: we are not available to resurrect the civil governments! [[PSD applause.]] I know that this is an old wish of the Socialist Party, but we are not available to do so, nor anything similar to the civil governments with another name. Therefore, they count on us to consensualize, to debate, but civil governments, with us, do not come back, may be rested. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-29.u245	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, the general debate of Bill No 319 / XII ( 4 ) is closed. (a) and, with this, today's agenda. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, for 15 hours, with the following agenda: urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the employment, employment and unemployment situation. The general discussion of Bill No. 316 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the new special arrangements applicable to entities licensed in the Free Zone of Madeira from 1 January 2015 ; the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1450/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the prohibition of the use of glyphosate ( The Greens) and 1408 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of glyphosate ( BE) ; and the joint assessment of draft resolutions 1373 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the definition of a strategy for deepening citizenship and the democratic and political participation of young people ( PSD ), which has been approved 1290 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends the enhancement of citizenship education in all basic and secondary education cycles ( PS ), 1447 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — For the full respect for the autonomy and non-interference in the democratic life of students and their associations, for the deburocratization of the process of legalization and the allocation of public support to youth associations and for the strengthening of the conditions of democratic participation of young people in the life of schools and the country ( PCP ) and 1449 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures to ensure the promotion of sexual and reproductive rights in schools as a fundamental dimension of the citizenship of young people ( BE ). Finally, draft resolution No 1451/ XII ( 4 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of European initiatives considered as priority for scrutiny under the European Commission’s 2015 work programme (the European Committee on European Affairs ). At 6 p.m. there will be a scheduled vote. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 55 minutes.]]
