ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Agents, you can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein. 279 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, updating the definition of terrorism, which falls to 1. the Commission, 280 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ), laying down new grounds for the granting of nationality by naturalization and for the opposition to the acquisition of Portuguese nationality, which falls to 1. the Commission, 281 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 101 / 2001 of 25 August 2001 establishing the legal regime for actions covered for the purpose of prevention and criminal investigation, allowing all illegal acts related to terrorism to be included in the actions covered, which falls below 1. the Commission, 282 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The fifth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 2002 of 11 January establishing measures to combat organised and economic-financial crime in order to cover all crime related to terrorism, which falls below 1. the Commission, 283 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 52 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 ( Counter-Terrorism Act ), criminalising public apology and displacements for the practice of the crime of terrorism, which falls to 1. the Commission, 284 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 23 / 2007 of 11 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory, amending the grounds for the granting and cancellation of visas and for the application of the ancillary expulsion penalty, which falls to 1. the Commission, 285 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended third Act No 49 / 2008 of 27 August 2008 approving the Criminal Investigation Organization Act to cover all criminal offences related to terrorism, which falls below 1. the Commission, 286 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 53 / 2008 of 29 August approving the Internal Security Act, amending the composition of the Higher Council for Internal Security and the organization and operation of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Unit, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service, which falls to 6. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 1268 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Regularization of payments to specialized artistic schools ( The Greens ), 1269 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Urgent construction of the health centre in the parish of Santa Iria de Azóia ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1270 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — For a quick and definitive solution to the problem of IP8 and IP2 and for guarantees of intervention in the Beja district road network ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1271 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of the Hospital de Cantanhede within the framework of the SNS and effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their operation ( PCP ), which falls to 5. a and 9. a Commissions, 1272 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By quality employment in tourism ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1273 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defense of the medical-surgical emergency at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas ( PS ), 1274 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the sardine fisheries sector ( PS ), 1275 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the current application and the assumptions of the knowledge and capacity assessment test ( PACC ) ( PS ), 1276 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the services provided at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas ( BE ), 1277 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to support, assess and protect the measles fisheries sector ( BE ), 1278 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by improving the Hospital de Santa Luzia, in Elvas, and in defense of users' access to health services ( PCP ), and 1279 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, as a matter of urgency, an in-depth reflection on the interventions planned for the Formosa River and its consequences for the populations, suspending with immediate effect all the ongoing actions involving the demolition of dwellings until compliance with the principle of equality and the right to housing ( PS ) is ensured, which falls to 11. the Commission ; and projects of lein.o 785 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment to the Legal Regime of Urbanization and Building shall be 14. the amendment to Decree-Law No 555 / 99 of 16 December ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 786 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code on Parental Liability ( CDS-PP and PSD ), 787 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates an exceptional process of suspension of penhoras and coercive sales of dwellings by tax debt ( BE ), 788 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and capacity (PACC) ( BE), 789 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Eliminates golden visas from the immigration law ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 791 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia of the Union of Currelos, Papízios and Sobral, in the municipality of Carregal do Sal, for the parish of Carregal do Sal ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u3	Let us then start our agenda today, starting with political declarations, the following: Greens, PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP. Before giving the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, to make her political statement, I would ask the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, to minimize the noise and the honourable Member have the opportunity to speak. You then have the floor, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After several complaints, the Ministry of the Environment, in June last year, ordered an inspection at the Tua dam. The aim was to ascertain whether the EDP complied with the contractual obligations and the environmental impact declaration on the construction of the dam. The Minister informed that the results of this inspection would be ready in 30 days. The Greens allowed that deadline and at the beginning of September 2014 addressed a written question to the Minister of the Environment requesting the report of the General Environmental Inspection. at the beginning of October, the Ministry of the Environment answered this written question saying that it already had the report but was not yet approved by the Minister. After that, six months. The Greens found that the report was never approved again and considered that the non-disclosure of the report was already totally abusive. Thus, on January 30 this year, in a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, the Greens asked the Prime Minister himself to bring the report in the next debate. On 10 February, the Minister of the Environment came to the Committee on the Environment and the Greens and asked him directly for the report. Mr. Minister continued to say that he was not approved. Ten days later, on 20 February, in a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, the Greens again requested the requested report and the Prime Minister replied that he did not remember this request, but said that he would work with the Ministry of the Environment so that the report would be delivered to the Assembly of the Republic. Four days later, yesterday, 24 February, we were informed by the social communication that the Minister of the Environment finally approved the report and the Ministry's press release reports some of the findings of the inspection at your dam. The first conclusion to be drawn from this whole story is that it took a very intense pressure to make the inspection results public. They were almost pulled out of irons. Now, what the press release of the Ministry of the Environment says is that, well see, Mrs and Mrs. Members, in general, EDP is fulfilling its obligations, I repeat, in general, EDP is fulfilling its obligations. It's a form of euphemistically saying that EDP is violating anything. And it confirms this even when it assumes, further forward, that EDP did not comply with the presentation of the mobility plan to which it was obliged from the outset, by means of the environmental impact declaration and for RECAPE ( Environmental Compliance Report of the Implementation Project ). Therefore, as the Greens have always denounced, EDP has grossly violated its obligations, contractual determinations and the declaration of environmental impact. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The mobility plan was a key piece without which the dam could not be built. So it fell the mask of Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva, who always said that for him, the National Barrage Program would never have been approved or advanced, always implying that, for him, there was no barrier from Your, but the previous government had decided. They were wolf statements with lamb skin, it was a mere mask of pseudo-environmentalist who quickly fell, when there was evidence of yielding to the great economic interests, in this case, the EDP, which became clear as water. The Greens Ecological Party, today, states that the fact that EDP did not meet when and how it should be one of the central conditions for building your dam was more than enough and legitimate for the Ministry of the Environment to have ended the environmental, social and economic crime that constitutes that hydroelectric enterprise which has no utility, from the point of view of hydroelectric production. So Mr. Minister did not stop building your dam because he didn't want to, because he wanted to see her grow, because he wanted to do favors to EDP. The truth is that he wants both that dam, with the consequent destruction of the valley of Thya and the railway line of Thya, as the former PS government wanted. Let all environmentalists and environmentalists in this country remain today aware that the construction of your dam could have stopped by the hands of Minister Moreira da Silva, at no significant cost to the country, because EDP brazenly violated its contractual obligations. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, if it were not the insistent pressure of the Greens, the report by the General Inspection of the Environment would still be in the Minister's drawer and no one would know its results. In the meantime, the government has always been closing its eyes on the question of the very insecurity of the construction of the dam, and has closed its eyes on the fact that the alternative of closing the high voltage line has not been studied. This Ministry of the Environment works only through the satisfaction of the great economic interests. See the privatisation of EGF ( General Development Company )! See the restructuring of the water sector! See what it does not do about genetically modified organisms! The environment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very ill served with such a government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u5	The Bureau recorded three requests for clarification from the Members. Deputies Bruno Coimbra, PSD, Lino Ramos, CDS-PP, and Helena Pinto, BE. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u6	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u7	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u8	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, this subject has already been discussed here several times and always with the same arguments. The truth is that the national dam plan, which is the responsibility of the previous government, is worthy because it contributes to reducing the country's spending and energy deficit, using natural resources. contrary to what the honourable Member has tried here to pass—and whenever she talks about it—is a project of great relevance to the country and also to the region. however, it is true that some aspects have not been properly guarded. An example of this is the safeguard of the classification of the High Vinhateiro as World Heritage, which was ultimately not safeguarded by the previous government as well. But this government did properly safeguard this status. It was one of the various problems to solve that this government inherited. And the evidence of the concern of the Minister and of this Government in this regard was precisely the inspection he had to carry out to the dam to assess compliance with the provisions of the environmental impact declaration and of the conditions and compensations for this region. The fact is that, even yesterday, the government, as I said, has made it public that the General Inspection study concludes that, in general, the promoter is fulfilling his obligations. In any event, it also states that not all the elements necessary for the conclusion of the Environmental Report and Conformity, including the mobility plan and its draft implementation, have been presented. But one thing that the honourable Member has forgotten to mention: the government has given a deadline until next week for these elements to be duly delivered. The fact is that the honourable Member has come here to hear himself. If he really wanted to follow this problem, he would have read the communiqué and considered what the communiqué actually reports. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Excuse me, Madam Member, but this has been duly accompanied by both the Government and this House. In fact, the Committee on the Environment, of which the honourable Member is still a member in the middle of last month, went to visit the Foz Tua venture and learn about reality. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Perhaps if the honourable Member and the Greens Ecological Party had been present on this parliamentary visit today, it would have been different. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u9	Mr José Lino Ramos of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an issue which, because of its relevance, deserves serious consideration. And in order to be treated seriously, all the facts of this process must be brought here. Indeed, it is a process with environmental implications, but it also has the importance of using natural resources and has implications, above all, in people's lives. It was about the lives of the people that the Committee on the Environment had the opportunity to hear, when it moved to the site, when it visited the dam, when it had the opportunity to meet with the autarchs. in fact, the Commission was not ‘grasting’ EDP, it was checking how the works were going, what the people’s hopes were and, above all, listening to their authorships and what they had to say. Now, what they had to say, Mrs. Member, was that they were in agreement with the dam but were in need of a recovery plan and an internal mobility plan. And it is this internal mobility plan that has been verified in this report that is not being complied with by EDP. But despite the criticism of the honourable Member — which is unfair, because that is not what is happening and is pointed out to the Minister — the Minister has set a time limit for EDP to actually make this mobility plan. What interests people, rather than listening to political declarations, are concrete objectives that can improve their lives, and these works improve them. The mobility plan is essential for your mobility, for your day-to-day, and that is what the Minister has determined, giving a deadline for EDP to comply with what was required. Does the honourable Member not feel comfortable with a government that obliges the powerful, EDP, to fulfil its obligations? [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u11	The next request for clarification will be made by Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u12	Madam President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on bringing again the issue of your dam in this House. It is never too much to return to this issue, a national theme — I stress, a national theme — with the consequences that we all know come from its construction. We all know that, although there are some Members in this House. Members who fear not to see the consequences for the whole country of building your dam. We well know that this construction was decided in the Government of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u13	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u14	...that, in fact, does not pronounce itself on this matter, by the way, which is a pity. It's a shame, Mr. Mota Andrade! It's a shame because it was the Socialist Party's decision. [[PS protests.]] But we also know that the current government, supported by the PSD and the CDS, has decided not to move a straw to reverse this situation, although some of you in the previous legislature have been even very critical of your dam.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u15	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u16	It's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u17	That's the truth! Then, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in fact, what she reported in her political statement and relates to the report only yesterday approved by Minister Moreira da Silva and which is not yet known as a whole, because we know only the Ministry's Press Release. Let me make a parenthesis here to say the following: it is completely unheard and unwarranted that the Minister will keep a report in the drawer for months, until he feels pressured to approve it, on a subject like this. So, you don't understand and we're going to see the report in its different complexity. However, I agree with you, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, because all we know is that EDP did not fulfil all its obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u19	The EDP did not comply with the main, which was, in fact, said to be a fundamental issue, the mobility plan. It has been said that there would be no problem for the population because there would be an alternative plan for mobility and, after all, there is no! And now Mr Moreira da Silva is coming — he seems to want to be strong with the strong, but not — to give a few days to do so. If the Minister were strong with the strong, he had already told EDP that he had had had a long time to carry out his duties and failed to fulfil them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u21	Now, only for this reason was it possible to stop this disaster, which is the construction of your dam, which, we cannot forget, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will destroy a unique landscape in our country, destroy a unique ecosystem and we cannot watch this passively. In fact, and with this I finish, Mrs....
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u22	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u23	I conclude, Madam President, by also taking the opportunity to greet all who, over the years, have not spared any effort in the denunciation of what the construction of Tua's dam means. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u24	I'm asking the ladies. Members who respect intervention times. I now give the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u25	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I would like to thank you, and, in spite of everything, also to the honourable Members. Mr Bruno Coimbra and José Lino Ramos, the comments and questions that have been raised. Mr Bruno Coimbra, I think it may have been a lack of language but you will not eventually see a problem with the fact that important matters are being debated several times in the Assembly of the Republic, will you not? We therefore dismantled this argument of being repeatedly discussed. On the other hand, the honourable Member also said that they were always the same arguments. No, sir! There are new arguments! [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Coimbra.]] There is the conclusion of a report by the General Inspection of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning which determines that the EDP has grossly violated its obligations. Mr President, this meant that the Ministry of the Environment had taken steps in time to stop the crime that EDP commits, in particular by failing to comply with what was required. Not that way, sir! Open... Now, you must definitely correct the argument.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u26	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u27	Don't! I'll tell you why, Mr. Deputy, and you'll understand. You, in the past legislature, even said bad about the National Barrage Programme; in this legislature, you say good about it. In the meantime, the Minister of the Environment came, who wants to arm himself in a great environmentalist... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u28	... and, to please the environmentalists, he said so « No, I am even against the National Barrage Programme, that is a disgrace, but the previous government had already decided...», as one says: « Coy of me that now I am obliged to deal with this». But you keep saying that! ... understand! Are you not in line with the Minister, or are you, in fact? Mr. Lino Ramos shook his head, saying yes. They're, in fact. Why? Because the Minister wears an environmentalist cover that has nothing to do with the decisions he is taking. Then, in fact, it's true! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are now here to welcome the report. I would like to ask them the following: what efforts have been made by the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS to get the report? Zero! Absolutely nothing! ... We insisted, until exhaustion, in the Assembly of the Republic, that this report should come and be made public. You didn't do anything at all, did you have no interest in knowing the report? Oh, my God! With regard to the mobility plan, I think there is some grace for you... You came here and said: "In three days, EDP is going to make a mobility plan", which the Ministry must have told you three months ago, four or five months ago, isn't it? We don't know! The Ministry's dialogue with EDP is very direct, but with the Assembly of the Republic it is almost null and void, in some respects, it is not true, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? But I ask you, how long have you heard me? Mr Greens said here that EDP is not fulfilling what was required in the area of mobility? Have you ever heard of it? Oh, my God! ... Mr. Sir, what were you talking about new arguments, you never heard that? Is it something new that the Ministry of the Environment or the General Inspection of the Environment is now giving you? Oh, my God! Hear more The Greens, so that they can be alerted to certain issues, because that thing of going to yours to talk to EDP, no, thank you, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! What is important is to talk to the people, what is important is to talk to the associations that mobilize to safeguard a single region in the country, Mrs and Mrs. Members, with unique potential in the country. I am talking, in particular, about the valley of Youra and the railway line of Youra, of a heritage that the government is willing to lose, with enormous costs for the country, and we consider, Mrs and Mrs. Members, which is an effective environmental, social and economic crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u29	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u30	I shall finish, Madam President, by telling Mrs Helena Pinto that this was more than enough reason to have stopped the dam, but simply Mr. Environment Minister Jorge Moreira da Silva did not want to stop it. That was his real goal: to continue with this absolute crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u31	The Greens'political declaration is thus concluded, so we move on to the next political declaration, which will be made by the PSD. To that end, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent weeks, the political situation in Greece has dominated the attention of public opinion. We all welcomed the agreement reached and noted the Greek Government's main proposals as a commitment to continue to support the troika, including: keeping the privatisation programme in progress; combating fraud and tax evasion; and reforming VAT with a view to maximizing revenue; implementing financial stabilization measures, including through strengthening the banking sector; the public expenditure containment programme; the salary table reform; and the reform of labour law. We are waiting for these objectives to be achieved, but there is a conclusion that we all have to take from this situation, especially those we are so excited about with Syriza: Greece is proposing to do what Portugal has already done in recent years. He just doesn't see who doesn't want to see! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But the case of Greece has another virtuality, which is to reinforce and value the remarkable example of Portugal and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u33	PSD is a great Syriza!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u34	With all the respect that Greece deserves us, the truth is that Portugal is not Greece. We are a radically different case. Portugal asked for the ransom after Greece and left first of the ransom. Portugal had a clean exit, without second rescue and no cautious program. Greece is already on the second rescue and no one knows what the future holds for him. The Greeks today see debt interest rising exponentially. In Portugal, on the contrary, the interest on the debt shall be minimal historical.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u36	Greece has spent these years involved in serious social seizures. In Portugal, the adjustment was made in a climate of social peace, always valuing the concertation. And as if all of this did not happen, today's truth is very elucidative. While Greece is unknown about the future, Portugal is sure to see itself: a country that is already recovering and growing, a country in which exports rise and investment grows, a country that early repays the most expensive loans, a country in which unemployment is gradually being reduced and a country where wages already recover income and pensions are returned. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all want Greece to succeed, but to invoke the case of Greece and forget the example of Portugal is not an attack on the government, it is a huge lack of respect for the effort and merit of the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The Portuguese have won the crisis: they have won the entrepreneurs, because exports and investment have grown at an unprecedented rate; they have won the tourism agents, because tourism has never, as today, reached such significant proportions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u37	This is the Oasis speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u38	They won the workers, because they were able to make agreements, commitments and understanding platforms at the centre of social consultation. They have won and won the institutions of social solidarity, which have had a remarkable job in combating the crisis and promoting social cohesion. They have all won, entrepreneurs and workers, who with their effort and sense of responsibility have helped to reduce unemployment and have contributed to the net creation of jobs. He won the government that, by inheriting from others a ransom, a troika and a pre-banking situation, he knew he had the courage, determination and social sensibility to define a course and fulfill a patriotic and national mission. Moreover, because this is a government that did all this without the support and solidarity of those who had the greatest obligation to be solidarity, those who today in the opposition and yesterday in the government launched the country irresponsibly in the crisis, put the troika in and left Portugal in the pre-bancarrot. After all this journey it is time for the PS to assume for once the government has done what had to be done, Portugal is incomparably better and the Portuguese are happy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What moves us today is the future, but the future of the Portuguese is not built up with those who speak the most. The future of Portuguese is built on those who do most. What we are interested in is the future of young people, the elderly, those who are looking for a job.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u39	Those who left?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u40	But the future of young people, the elderly and the unemployed does not go through the professionals of criticism and the arrears of pessimism that present neither solutions nor alternatives. Yes, it passes from those who have experience, given evidence, humility of hearing and determination to decide and reform. What matters to us is the future of Portugal, but this future does not pass from those who have cast us into the arms of the troika. It happens, yes, for those who had the courage to rescue the country from the troika and to return to it the autonomy and pride of being Portuguese. That's our conviction. The judgment, that one, is from the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u41	Mrs Deputy, the Bureau has registered five Mrs. Members to ask for clarification and ask how you want to answer. [[Pause.]] The answers will be given together, so I begin by giving the floor to Mr Artur Rego to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I should like to begin by thanking you for bringing this matter to plenary at the moment. Now that there is so much talk about Greece and Syriza, I think it was time to establish definitely the differences between Portugal and Greece. It is funny to see the opposition, which so much criticized us, now talk about the parallels and it is good that the honourable Member has remembered that our case has nothing to do with Greece. We do not ask for a second programme; during the programme, we have not consistently failed to comply, creating the need for a second programme and another rescue, an assistance programme and an extension. So we have scrupulously complied with what we have proposed, but it is necessary to say more and I would like the honourable Member to speak on the fact that the left comes now, in view of what the Syriza and the Greek government have done, to accuse Portugal of not negotiating. I would like to know what negotiation was in which Syriza, less than a month after being elected, abdicated all his electoral flags that made him win the votes necessary to get to power, and I would like to hear about the accusation made by this government that he was more troikist than the troika. I ask the honourable Member whether or not it is true that the Portuguese Government, from the very first moment, in relation to the original Memorandum and subsequent negotiations, refused to apply certain measures which had been negotiated by the Socialist Party, such as the freezing of pensions, the freezing of the minimum order, the application of contributions from IRS, IRC to the IPSS, to the reformers, the application of rules in the labour legislation for the absolute equalization of the contract of work in the long term with the contract of unterm work, etc. Did the Portuguese Government, in particular, oppose a number of requirements that we believe would not be necessary, would they be discriminatory to the Portuguese people, and always argued that we would be able to comply with the Programme without having to implement them? Is it true that we do not blindly apply these measures and that, nevertheless, by defending the Portuguese, we are able to fulfil, recover and rescue the country, as the honourable Member has said very well? Madam Member, I would like you to tell me what you think of the statement by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, President, in the absence of the City Council of Lisbon, which comes to say and finally recognise before the Chinese community - perhaps you thought it would not happen to the Portuguese - that Portugal is much different, for better than four years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u43	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u44	I shall conclude, Madam President. I would like you to tell me what you think of this and the ambivalent understanding of the opposition, for example, as regards it very well, even essential, for the sustainability of the social state the Greek Government announces that it will introduce moderate health rates when, in view of what the Portuguese Government has done, three or four years have been attacking us and saying that the moderate rates destroy the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u45	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who respect regiment times. I now give the floor to Mrs Carla Cruz for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, for whom it had been a long time ago said that Portugal's comparisons with Greece did not make any sense — it is important to say - it is at least loaded to see the attempts to compare that the honourable Member described between Portugal and Greece. This is indeed the first record we would like to highlight here. The essential issue, Mrs Deputies, was a question that has not been addressed and that could actually let us understand what we have to do to solve our country's problem, the problem that has been created by the policy that the current government has developed. The Greeks, Mrs Deputy, will choose their path, how to solve their own problems. There may be convergences in the way we and Greece solve the problems, but the essential question, Mrs Deputies, would be to be here discussing how to solve our problems. And, in our view, this essential issue goes hand in hand with the renegotiation of debt in the forms proposed by the CFP: the renegotiation of interest, amounts and deadlines. What would be important, Mrs Deputies, was to discuss how we will be free from the constraints imposed by the budget treaty, what it was important to see put here was how the country can channel its resources to solve the problems and the serious economic and social crisis in which the country is. We haven't heard about any of this. The question is why instead of the government being defending the renegotiation of debt and the rejection of the budgetary treaty continues to align with Germany, the directory and the European Union's taxes. Moreover, we have found that this alignment with Germany and the European Union is at the expense of the country, which can only be understood to enable the political survival of the PSD and CDS-PP, which has led the country to the economic and social crisis where the Portuguese have been dragged. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u47	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u48	Madam President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the honourable Member said in her political statement, in the rostrum, that the Portuguese have overcome the crisis — and they have won all, the workers, the entrepreneurs, everyone has won. Madam Member, can I not fail to mention this because I think it is too serious for a member of the majority party to say that everyone has won the crisis in a country that continues to have such a high number of unemployed and unemployed — or have we forgotten them already? — in a country where users of the National Health Service are unable to have basic care, or have we already forgotten the emergency situation? — in a country where people lose their homes and social support, in a country where young people cannot have a job. Mrs. Member, do we win the crisis? Oh, my God! But in what country are you living in? She says that Greece is now proposing to do what Portugal has already done. Nothing more wrong, Mrs. Member! Nothing more wrong! Greece is actually doing what Portugal has never done. First, enter the meetings of the lifting Eurogroup,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... has an active voice in the defense of your country and your people, Mrs. Deputy, which Portugal has never done because the Government of this country has never, in the Eurogroup, raised its voice against anything. Secondly, in Greece, its government, the Syriza government, is implementing emergency measures to respond to the humanitarian crisis that five years of austerity left the country. For example, more than 500 000 people will again have access to electricity, contrary to what we see in Portugal, where there are more and more families without electricity. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But be calm, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. in health, the unemployed will have access to the national health service, contrary to what existed, and, yes, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u50	So, Mrs. Deputy, don't make comparisons. Be calm, because we all need to be very calm to see what the process is going to be like in Greece, not to speak, of course, of measures against corruption and tax fraud that the Greek government undertakes to take forward. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But the fundamental question, and that is the trace of all your speech, is that the PSD and CDS want to use Greece and are almost like making vows for everything to go wrong in Greece. For what, Mrs. Deputy? To show that your policy is unique and there is no alternative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u51	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u52	I shall conclude, Madam President. Now, here is the lesson that can be drawn today: what the Greek Government is showing is that there is an alternative to austerity policy, and that is what it costs you very much to accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u53	The next request for clarification is from The Greens. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u54	Madam President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I am curious why the honourable Member considers that the President of the Commission has repeatedly stated that the troika has sinned against the dignity of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u55	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u56	I don't know, Mrs. Member, and don't tell me it was just to upset the Portuguese government! Mrs. Deputy will say. I would also like to tell you that, as Portuguese, I am absolutely ashamed to see the Portuguese Government being raised as a trophy to demonstrate that austerity is the best of the worlds everywhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u58	And in order to permanently disrupt negotiations with Greece, Mrs Deputy, Portugal has lent itself to this role as a drawback of negotiations with Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u59	Drawn? What's that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u60	Madam Member, it is sad to see the government in an absolute subservience role in Germany, sometimes shouting higher than the German government itself. This may have to make us reflect and ponder. But, Madam Member, your speech should also make us reflect and reflect on why you offended the Portuguese, first of all, by lying to them. In other words, in the election campaign they said something, they came to the government and did exactly the opposite: they increased taxes, cut wages, cut pensions. Secondly, they have offended, with your absolutely devastating measures of our social and economic state. Thirdly, they offend with the words, because what the honourable Member has said, in terms of the achievements achieved with the policy of this government, is that Portugal is incomparably better, that entrepreneurs and workers are all 'to the leaps of contentment', is a party in this country. I don't know where the honourable Member sees that! Does the honourable Member think that the two million poor people whom INE came to report on the other day in terms of numbers should thank the government? Does the honourable Member think that the many qualified young people you have forced to emigrate should thank the Government? People who spend hours and hours...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u61	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u62	I'm done now, Madam President. ... in the urgency of hospitals, without conditions, with a brutal disinvestment in the area of health, should they thank the government? Do you fit the offensive words of the honourable Member? No, and Mrs. Deputy knows you don't. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u63	For one last question, by the PS, Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u64	Madam President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I confess that she had good expectations regarding her intervention, knowing her traditional common sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u65	But it's exceeded!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u66	...but I was disappointed. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u67	I had hoped for a lucid analysis that would overcome what is the humiliation that Portugal has suffered during the last week and an analysis that would take into account what since last Friday were the positive developments for the European idea, for those who, like us, believe in a Europe of development and solidarity. Member of the Socialist Party does not care whether the European debate results in a win in Berlin or Athens, which gives us an optimistic and constructive view of the developments of the last few days is the fact that they are good for Portugal and Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what the PSD brings us is the shame of a country humiliated by a finance minister who, at the peak of the crisis, was shown as a pet of the fundamentalists of expansionist austerity,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by a government that in the German press, the American press and the Norwegian press has been pointed out as a true Taliban of austerity that has tried, until the last hour, to question a proposal that would allow a compromise response, a European response. Dear PSD Members, you are here the face of those who proudly ruled beyond the troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They are the faces of those who, when the OECD says that our biggest problem is education, were proud to destroy the New Opportunities, were proud to reduce investment in education and to reverse progress in science. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u68	What about the highways?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u69	The PSD is, here, the face of those who, out of pride, cut in health twice as much as the Memory of the Troika required. This is the cost that is paid in times of waiting and in lives in health services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u70	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u71	The PSD is the face of three years of recession that put GDP at the 2001 level. When Europe is betting on investment, when Juncker apologizes to the Portuguese, the PSD is the face of investment at 1980 level and is the face of another year of growth of public debt, as the Banco de Portugal said. The PS will be here, for Europe and for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u72	To answer this set of questions, you have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u73	Madam President, thank you to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions they have raised. I begin with the Socialist Party, in which Mr Eduardo Cabrite said he expected me to have a lucid analysis. For I must tell you that I would also expect you to have a moment of clarity, as Dr António Costa did, whose statements, made three days ago, we know today and I quote. Says António Costa :« As we say in Portugal, friends are for occasions and, on a difficult occasion for the country, when many did not believe that the country had conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u74	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u75	...to cope and overcome the crisis, the truth is that the Chinese, the Chinese investors said present, came and made a great contribution so that Portugal could be today in the situation in which it is, quite different from that in which it was four years ago». That's right! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u76	Palms for Dr. António Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u77	From now on, I must tell the Socialist Party that it must be organized. In reply to Mr Cabrita, taking advantage of the fact that he refers only to criticism and that it is all bad, since he only makes criticisms, I would like to ask the honourable Member what he thinks about what happened last week in France, with a socialist government, which the Socialist Party supports in relation to labour reform. The fact is that the labour reform, contrary to what happened in Portugal, in which it was done in social consultation, voted and discussed in the Assembly of the Republic by the representatives of all Portuguese, France withdrew the proposal of the French representatives and took it to the vote simply in the Government. If that were the case with us, Mr. Members said « it is a blow, it is a shame ». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I'd like to know what you guys are. Members have to say about this situation. As far as you have said, Mr President, I must tell you that what it takes to admit to the honourable Members. Members are, in fact, having a credible finance minister,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u78	...that it is respected and that it has always managed, out there and in here, to defend the interests of our country. And he has done so again recently, both with regard to Portugal and with regard to Greece. I have to tell the ladies. Members—and replying to Mr Artur Rêgo — who, indeed, and taking in Dr. António Costa's statements, this is the time for the Socialist Party to redeem itself and say that Portugal is better, as a result of what has been the policies of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u79	It's 2, 7 million poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u80	As for the other ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to tell Members Carla Cruz and Helena Pinto that they did not hear what I said — they did not listen or did not want to hear — because I had the opportunity to report facts. My speech began with facts and I said that only you don't see who doesn't want to. Therefore, the Members do not want to see the situation in the country. No one said the problems were all solved. What we said, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality we are facing is difficult, but we, the Portuguese, are able to turn around and are in the process of cycle change.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u82	I must tell Mrs Carla Cruz that my political statement has not been loaded. What is loaded is Mrs Deputy not having the humility to recognize and congratulate the Portuguese on the sacrifices they have made. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u83	For that we have a choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u84	Finally, I must tell Mrs Carla Cruz, and also Mrs Heloísa Apolonia, that we know your positions, which do not surprise us, but also, again, that this was the time for everyone, together, to recognize that it is not all solved, as it is evident, that the crisis began when we received the troika...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u85	It's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u86	No, Mrs. Member, it's not worse, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u87	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u88	Worse was in 2011 when we called the troika and had to apply the measures. It was the Socialist Party who called her and we met. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u89	To give the next political statement, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u90	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs and Mrs. Members: All Portugal knows today of certain experience that expansionist austerity is something that does not exist; it cohabits in the trash bin of past fantasies along with creatures without neck, with the ether that would lift the gateway of Bartholomew of Gusmão or with the communist "new man", here resurrected exemplifically. The whole Portugal knows that the doctrine of so-called internal devaluation is an economic aberration similar to the collective appropriation of the means of production or the five-year economic planning. It is not only synonymous with inefficiencies, poverty and anachronism, but also with social violence, loss of wages, pension theft, destruction of wealth, hunger, emigration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For decades, left and direct rejected ultraliberalism in the 19th century, which was responsible for the rise of the totalitarianisms of the 20th century. It took the end of the financial crisis, the debt crisis, the euro crisis and the European crisis, all formulations describing about the same thing, so that Europe would rediscover the advantages of eternal budgetary balance and the potential redeemer of perpetual austerity. Cruelty and destruction would allow creditors to be reimbursed and the magical forces of competitiveness to be released. With regard to the tragic balance of this policy in Europe, it is impossible to deceive Portuguese. The propaganda of the German Government and its government satellite in Portugal is not intended to convince Portuguese that austerity results. This would be a very ungrateful effort, quite ridiculous, even provocative. It is only to humiliate the Greeks, punish them for not obeying Minister Schäuble and for not choosing competent and visionary statesmen, with the size of Steps, Doors or Albuquerque. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Syriza is obviously not my party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u91	Ms. Cecilia Meireles ( CDS-PP ). - Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u92	I have very few similarities and less sympathy with him, but I respect the dignity and pride of those who do not conceive of themselves as governor of a protectorate. The Greeks will therefore not hear from Varufakis what the Portuguese have already had to hear, unbelieving, of Minister Paulo Portas! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Not particularly in Syriza, I would like to be able to address the Greeks and fail them of the Portuguese success done by the Troika Triunvirate-Passos-Albuquerque and that Minister Schäuble always invokes with the aim of isolation and acupar. I would say anything like this: « Dear Greek friends, in Portugal we went 13 years ago. The 2014 GDP is at 2001 level. Our economy has lost 400 000 jobs. We went 20 years back, going back to the levels of the 90s. The investment fell by 25 % at 80. So we're back 30 years. The emigration of the active population is a 40-year retreat at the level of the colonial war. Finally, our debt is around 130 % of GDP, and only in interest will we pay 5% of GDP by 2015 more than you, Greek friends." [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not resist the following: the « lead » of the Constitutional Court saves us knowledge throughout its extension of the « austerity » project advocated by our Government. But, unexpectedly, they generated a rise of 0, 9 % of GDP, which was enough to drop the glorious balance of the external balance by 30 %, the balance with which we count not only to pay the debt but also to survive there. This misfortune falls within the eyes of everyone, including the new President of the European Commission, who is not responsible for the inept and cruel adjustment plans, and in contrast with all this insanity, faced with the public stoning of Greece, said what he thought and I quote: «We must learn the lessons of the past and not repeat the same mistakes. The institutions that form the troika have committed sins against the dignity of the Portuguese, Irish and Greek, which requires a review of the models of the financial ransoms in Europe". « Review of financial ransoms in Europe »: a light of hope has been lit up in Portuguese. in the Portuguese Government, the red light of alarm was lit. In Berlin, sirens were heard. The honour of the troika and its exemplary government must be defended. It was necessary to clarify that the dignity of the Portuguese was at its best. See the dignity with which they emigrated to hundreds of thousands or how they fell into emergency waiting rooms. It was then highlighted by the Minister of the Presidency, who considered Juncker's statement on the attack on dignity as unfortunate, but said that at no time the dignity of the Portuguese was challenged by the troika or — meaning — by the executives of the PSD/CDS government. In a slight disarticulation with the outside world, the Portuguese Minister of State and Foreign Affairs still appeared to avoid the possibility of requiring reparations to the troika, possibly which had not happened to Syriza. The fact is that the principle of austerity was at risk. The Draghi radical started an easy-to-use quantitative program. Mr Juncker invented a European investment support package and spoke of an intelligent reading of the CFP and, for a crowd, he also suggested that the European policies dictated by Germany, declared by the Commission and kindly accepted by the southern governments, were contrary to the dignity of the peoples. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Austerity and its tragic economic and social legacy were falling, discredited by the results, and something new was making its way into European policy, with an emphasis on growth and the more equitable sharing of the advantages of monetary union. After all, the Greek problem was part of a wider European problem, which was not likely to be renewed to moral recriminations or abuse of primary stereotypes. Good news for Portugal and for the punished Portuguese people, but bad news for the Government Steps / Doors. It was the recognition by the IMF and the Commission of the intrinsic stupidity, fanatical and uncontrolled austerity, indifferent to its cruel or counterproductive effects. Greece, which sacrificed one-third of its domestic product to achieve a minor primary surplus, at the end of eight years of recession requested truces and the renegotiation of the terms of the adjustment. But the German, Portuguese and Spanish rights had other priorities: do not let austerity be discredited because it works, reject the idea of a European problem, reducing it to a Greek problem, vaccinating Europe against future democratic leviandades, preventing the appearance of other Syriza, intimidating and neutralizing socialist parties and finally creating conditions for the right-wing governments, ships of Schäuble Germany, winning their respective legislative elections, supported by the fantastic success of expansionist austerity. To this end, the governments of Portugal and Spain mobilized to attack, humiliate, sabotage the Greek efforts that, if successful, would certainly serve Portuguese and Spanish, but damaged the electoral interests of the Iberian PSD and PP. Now, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, doing in the Eurogroup the dirty work of the current owners of Europe, entwining desperate Greece, is a torpedoes and an indignity which the Portuguese do not deserve from their invertebrate government. But humiliating Greece turned out to be a much more thorny exercise than it seemed. The Greek finance minister regretted the subalternal condition of his Iberian counterparts and did not make any reference to his hallucinated and helpful performance. to the Iberian people was reserved more this unerring trial, this useless shame. The right does not realize that the Greek problem is also our problem and that of all Europeans, it does not realize that kneeling Greece is a crime against the European idea and offends Portuguese national dignity. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my party, I reaffirm the PS's historic commitment to the European idea and its shared ideal of peace, justice and prosperity, an idea in its original, generous, noble and incorrupt version. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u93	In order to clarify Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, Antonio I don't know how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u94	Nor do I, Madam President, before hearing the speeches. I do not know whether they will be equal or worthy of individualised responses. The questions on the right are usually the same. If that is the case, I shall answer together. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u95	Mr President, as you know, this is a matter for all Members who make political statements. It is assumed that you will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u96	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u97	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u98	Madam President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau about the conduct of the work and for the people who are seeing...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u99	Madam President, I will answer two questions first and then the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u100	As I said, for the people who are seeing us at home, I would like to make it clear that the CDS-PP Member has signed up to ask questions to the Socialist Party, not to the Left Block or to Syriza. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u101	Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has just explained that he answers the first two questions together and then the next three questions. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, I would like to take advantage of your emphatic and rhetorical statement which I find most advantageous. And I even want to forget, even for the consideration I have for you, some — many! — unfortunate expressions which have been uttered, such as « excessive sacrifice», « humiliation », « humiliation up to urgency », « dignity », among others... And because I do not want to talk about this, I do not want to take advantage of this part of your statement, I say only one thing: in fact, many and many Portuguese have gone through many sacrifices in recent years because of many difficulties, for many deprivations. But they went through all this because there was a government that led the country to the brink of bankruptcy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Sacrifices, trials, difficulties and the Socialist Party are one and the same thing. I don't want to go around, I don't want to do rhetoric, but, yes, I ask you concrete questions, which is what it serves or should serve this time. In fact, as Dr Nuno Magalhães said, he needs to know where he is, because sometimes he seems a bit confused. At some point, I even thought that Mr. Deputies, with no tie and the diaper outside, would give a reasonable Syriza...! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] Mr President, do you or do you not sign the statement yesterday — I saw you on television with Dr. António Costa, going to a meeting anywhere, I don't know where, I assume you met with socialist parties— the PASOK? It is that the PASOK communiqué is very clear and unequivocal — I can quote parts. He speaks in disappointment, he says that the Memorandum continues, he says that in Greece the change of the name 'troica' to 'institutions' represents nothing. And PASOK concludes by saying: "Unfortunately, this is the humiliating end of a set of lies and illusions." That's what PASOK says! But, after all, which side are you on? on the Syriza side or on the PASOK side? Are you a socialist or a blogger? [[You've got days!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u103	You have to decide! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Do you or do you not agree with today's statement by the German SPD leader who, as far as I know, will be your partner in Germany? He says peremptoryly: « The Greek Government cannot export the invoice to other countries ». He's your partner, he's the leader of the SPD! It's just that you can't do everything at the same time, Mr! Therefore, you need to clarify your position. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u104	Thank you for finishing, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u105	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question, which I think is important, to the honourable Member. Do you agree with this statement or not? You speak invertebrate, in indignity, etc. Do you agree or not that, as we say in Portugal, “friends are for occasions”? And, on a difficult occasion for the country, when many did not believe that the country was able to cope and overcome the crisis, the fact is that investors, the Chinese came, said 'present' and made a great contribution so that Portugal could be in today's situation, quite different from that in which it was four years ago. In other words, the country is better, the interest rates are 2 %, exports grow to 3 % — who says it is Antonio Costa! Do you agree with this statement or not? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is only that, Mr. Deputy, humiliation and shame is to go, by hand, asking for money to pay wages. Pride is to say, as we say today, that we are prepared to pay in advance. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u106	Mr António Filipe has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u107	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u108	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u109	Mr President, I would like to answer a number of two questions, and then three questions, but as follows: the two questions. Members of the parties on the right together and then to the questions of the three Mrs. Members of the left parties also together. I am not going to reply together to Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP and Mr Antonio Filipe of the CFP. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u110	Mr President, we shall proceed in accordance with what has been established. First, there are a number of questions from the honourable Members. Mr Telmo Correia and Mr António Filipe, and then there are a number of questions from the honourable Members. Deputies Pedro Filipe Soares, Heloísa Apollonia and Carlos Costa Neves. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u111	Mr President, if I may, before making the request for clarification, I would ask the Bureau about the progress of the work, to say that, on our part, we will not object to the PSD being able to ask your question now and Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto can answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u112	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u113	Mr António Filipe, please make your point.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u114	Mr President, I will then have to raise my question, but I would like to say that if Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto wanted to separate us from the questions on the right until he could answer them separately. But that is a question that the honourable Members are asking. Ladies and gentlemen will resolve. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, in fact, tried to find a lead wire in his speech or some relevant content elements, extracting some glogorism from the way I intervene here. I would like to point out two points where we converged on your position. One of them, when he expresses respect for the sovereign option that the Greek people had, regardless of whether to agree or disagree with the position that the present Greek Government brings to the European institutions, to show respect for this option and for its right to defend the interests that the Greek people consider to be the interests of the Greek people, regardless of what the position of the other European States is. We agree with respect that is due to the will of this people and their new government. We also converged on the criticisms expressed here by the Portuguese Government in this process and the follow-up to its position of rejection of any proposal that goes beyond Acephal follow-up to those which have been the guidelines imposed by the European Union in recent years. But, Mr President, we have a problem with your intervention, which is to know what the Socialist Party's position on central issues is. The truth is that in that European Council they were socialist rulers. Was there any difference in the position of these socialist rulers, notably the Italian Prime Minister or the French President, in relation to the position which the Member here criticises, and well, of other European leaders, notably the Portuguese Government? Did you find a differentiation? Mr. Deputies, if it exists, it has not been visible. in the communiqué out of the Eurogroup meeting it was not visible that there had been a dissociation. The honourable Member speaks here about the issue of the European idea, which he came here to defend, having ended his speech with a firm statement of support for the European idea. Mr President, is this European idea what you have chaired for the European Union's destinations in recent years? Mr President, do you think that the way in which the single currency was built is in line with your European idea? Probably, yes, because the Treaty on European Union was signed and defended, intransigently, by a majority of socialist and social-democratic rulers. So is that your European idea? It was good that there had been a clarification on this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u115	Mr. Antonio Filipe, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u116	I will finish, Mr. President. It is not at least consistent to regret the way in which the European institutions have led this process of European integration and at the same time to say that they are intransigently defending the European Union with all it involves, Mr President. There is a huge contradiction here that you have to resolve. I would like your intervention to contribute to this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u117	To reply, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u118	Mr President, I would really like the questions to have been asked in accordance with their affinity in material and non-formal terms, but I will therefore reply to Mr Antonio Filipe and Mr CSD. Mr António Filipe, your question is always the same: it is to know the position of the PS, which from his point of view is not understood. It will probably continue to be impossible to understand. The position of the PCP is perfectly understood. The position of the CFP is a delicate position because, indeed, for the CFP the issues in Greece have been complicated: there is now a Syriza, who are cousins away from the Left Block, on the other hand is Germany and its Portuguese and Spanish vessels and Mr. Member is in the middle, not knowing exactly what to do and is throwing a few needles against the European Union, against the euro, against injustice in the world and against everything you remember in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u119	Ah, great PASOK! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u120	Mr President, I can only tell you that the Socialist Party remains a Europeanist and is not yet convinced that the construction of Albania, isolated, in an economic authority, is an advantageous or viable solution. Mr Telmo Correia, I must start by telling you that I saw Greek to find some honesty, intelligence or even elegance in your question. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] But I am going to say the following: Mr President, do you not know where I am? I am in the Socialist Party, where I have always been. But I also know where the honourable Member is and where the party of the honourable Member is: they are wherever the power is, whatever it is, because they have no use in Portuguese life but to fight in such a way as to achieve and remain in power. And today, when I hear you make these pantomimes here in support of the PSD government, which, above all, despises you and mistreats you on every opportunity, I say to you: Mr, do not exaggerate in this farce! Perhaps, I will still hear Mr Telmo Correia here giving life to investment, growth and employment! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u121	It's happened! It's today!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u122	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u123	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, we accompany a considerable part of his speech, particularly as regards the meeting of the Eurogroup and the position of the Portuguese Government taken by the Minister for Finance. In fact, it's embarrassing what happened. We already realize that the Portuguese Government has a tactic, which is beginning to become clearer and clearer: it is afraid of any advance that may exist in Greece, because it knows that any advance is proof of its incompetence and subservience. Therefore, the tactic is summarized as follows: for the Portuguese Government, particularly for Maria Luís Albuquerque, the tactic is that of « the worse, the better ». This is, the worse in Greece, the better to say that there is no alternative. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get rid of it! There was and there was the same alternative. The Portuguese Government is very afraid to raise its voice in Europe and has therefore always been submissive and subservient.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u124	The Portuguese Government and the other 17 governments!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u125	And the Eurogroup meeting tells us exactly that. But there is one question I have to ask you, Mr President. at the meeting of the Eurogroup was described several times as the debate of 1 to 18. But even having been Mr Deputy, together with the leader of his party, at the meeting of the Socialist International, where several governments supported by the Socialist Party have sat down, even the governments sitting at the meeting of the Eurogroup, I ask you, then, how is it that, discussing a matter with this importance about whether Europe should be merely austerity or whether it should have dignity and a way to defend the peoples, we see that in this Eurogroup it was 1 to 18? Where were these Socialist International parties then? Where were these countries governed by the parties of the Socialist International? There is another point on which I would like to know your opinion. While we are having this debate, while the arguments are being exchanged, while the majority say that Portugal is not Greece and Portugal is much better, forgetting all the concerns that Portuguese people go through, all the difficulties, either in access to employment, or in access to fundamental elements such as health and education, we know that on the part of the European Commission, Portugal is currently considered to be a worrying country due to its economic imbalances, particularly with regard to high numbers of unemployment and, above all, with regard to public debt. This debt, which was the argument for the entry of the troika and which did not cease to increase, year after year of the mandate of this Government, always assuming values greater than those that the government had as forecast.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u126	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u127	I will finish, Mr. President. After all, in this debate we will continue to have a government that said the 'good student' and which is now under the attention of the European Commission due to economic imbalances, or is there still any hope that this government will be able to raise a voice that says 'dignity'? Can there still be any dignity in our country or is that beyond what we can expect from this government, which should defend its country and its people and policies that defend its country and its people? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u128	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u129	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, please do not take the first question that I will ask you. I would like to know whether you spoke on behalf of yourself or on behalf of the Socialist Party — and both hypotheses are legitimate. I think it is important to begin to understand some messages from the Socialist Party itself. On the other hand, you know, of course, for all that you have already heard from the Greens here in the Assembly of the Republic, that we converged on the reading that you have made of the shameful subservience of the Portuguese Government to Germany and the interests of austerity, the way in which they distort all reality and the way in which they do the greatest force so that there is no alternative or a differentiated path to pursue. We converged on that, Mr. The second question I would like to ask you, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, is this: when did you find out that we are in Europe of injustices? When did you find out that we are in Europe in the directory, in Europe of large economies, like Germany, which define small economies? When did the honourable Member give you that? This is a matter which, I think, has been known for a very long time and which has brought serious implications for Portugal, not only, but especially for the Portuguese economy. It is certainly not only that this was discovered when Syriza was elected, Member of the House! I believe that we will have no doubt about this. There is also something that has already begun to make me feel and that the government constantly repeats to exhaustion, which is: there are rules and the rules are to comply. But when the rules are ridiculous, Mr President, and when they have absolutely adverse effects, should a budgetary treaty be maintained, such as a stability pact? Finally, Mr President, I just want to ask one more question. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has certainly realized that the Portuguese — and they themselves have already realized — have never been called to speak on the European construction model. Under what circumstances and when, for the future, does he understand that the Portuguese may be called to speak for that purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u130	Mr Carlos Costa Neves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u131	Mr President, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, let me start by signaling ground. With all serenity, say what is the position of the PSD Parliamentary Group. And that this creative narrative is not created that sometimes does what it is understood to be or is the position of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u133	Having said this, firstly, I would like to stress that any comparison and parallelism between the situation in Portugal and that in Greece is forced, beheaded and often opportunistic. Portugal is Portugal, Greece is Greece. Portugal has had an Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto knows who signed it: he knows it was the Socrates Government. The Government in office has fulfilled this Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, has had a clean exit from this Programme and will even be made in advance with the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, submissives, such subservients, no longer have troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u134	But they have austerity!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u135	Greece goes into the second programme, did not go out, and extended it for four months. There are different amounts, conditions and circumstances are different. Today, Portugal, on the market, obtained a rate of 2 % lower than that of the United States, which is even recognized by the most suspicious, such as for example by the Secretary-General of the PS, Antonio Costa, who thanked the contribution at the entry of the new Chinese year so that Portugal could be in the situation in which it is, that is to say, quite different from that in which it was four years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u137	The second aspect I would like to mention is that no government, and this much less, likes austerity. This Government has implemented the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme negotiated by the Socrates Government. The third aspect I would like to mention is to reaffirm our respect for Greece and the Greek people, and that could only be the case. They are our allies in NATO, they are our partners in the European Union, they are mainly our partners in economic and monetary union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u139	We share principles, we share values, we share the same currency, which is not a small thing, because sharing the same currency means that we are in a political union and therefore there can only be solidarity on our side.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u140	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u141	Mr President, as Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has spoken for 10 minutes, allow me another 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u142	30 seconds. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u143	The fourth aspect I would like to mention is that I am sure that good solutions will be achieved, that good solutions will continue to be achieved. These are institutional, strategic approaches. It is not the PPE, or the PSE, or the parties a or b, or the Syriza, or even the Member States, is the government of Greece, are the institutions of the European Union in its political-party diversity, it is Dijsselbloem, it is Moscow, it is Juncker, it is the prime ministers of the Member States. So something will come to you. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto, perhaps too unaware of the fact that, at the last informal European Council, Juncker had presented a document—and there it is written that it was with the close cooperation of Tusk, Dijsselloem and Draghi—that he is preparing the next steps towards better economic governance in the euro area. So I ask: do you agree or do you not agree that anyone sharing the same currency has to have another governance architecture? Do you agree or do you not agree that we have to be obliged to comply with certain rules and that we have to change the commitments? Do you agree or do you not agree that you cannot continue in the middle of the bridge? Do you think or don't you think time is urgent? It's just that we've been waiting since 2007 when the crisis started. Do you agree or do you not agree that in June we have to have new rules and another solidarity in economic and monetary union? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u144	To reply, Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u145	Mr President, Mr Carlos Costa Neves, I agree so much with everything you have said that I have to contain myself so as not to hit you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u146	Beat it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u147	I ask you to hear the answer that I will give to Mr Luís Filipe Soares and, in the end, I will return to the matter, not to answer you, but to answer your party. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to say the following: with regard to international conditions in the European Union, it is very difficult to discuss realistic solutions that are likely to solve the European problems that are related to such differentiated impacts that monetary union has brought and that were not predictable. It is a very difficult debate. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares referred to other European Socialist parties and I can frankly tell you that the views are very different. I would also like to say to you — and I would say this because, with sympathy for the courage of Greece, I am not sympathetic to the solutions raised by the Syriza party, which you support — with all honesty, with a great patriotic sense and realism, that there is no slightest openness to discussions on debt, there is no minimum openness to accept that the difficulties of the south are still a consequence and start from the euro crisis. They think that the Greek problem is Greek — the euro problem is admirably solved! — and there is very little space to recognise the existence of asymmetrical impacts and to recognise that there are systemic problems in the monetary area that have to be solved, as Mr Costa Neves said in the last few seconds of his intervention, through financial compensation measures that will have to be studied to make the existence of such different economies in the same monetary area viable. I hope I have answered the questions you asked me. Mrs. Heloísa Apolónia, I don't mind asking myself whether I spoke on behalf of my party or on behalf of my party, so it won't hurt me if I ask you if you think it is right that, after answering the CFP, you still have to answer it to you. I don't think it's fair, but I'm going to answer it. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u148	I think you have to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u149	I spoke in my name and on behalf of my party, because we in the PS have not yet reached a state of osmosis as perfect as that of The Greens and the PCP. Mrs. Members of the PSD, distinguished colleagues, would like to make two or three points in response. Everyone knows that PSD and CDS are blocked in 2011 and there is no way to unlock them. Don't expect me to get what the other seats in this House in four years have failed. They're out there and they're not out there! They're in 2011! To help give the time jump that is imposed and to hold a debate itself in 2015, I would remind you briefly: in 2011 there was a Government of the Socialist Party that was overthrown by you and, in particular, by Mr. President of the Republic, with the argument that the country did not bear more sacrific and more austerity. So the President and PSD offered the homeland Dr. Portas and Dr. Passos and, since then, we have lived as we can. This was a brief summary of the last four years so that we could land in the contemporary era.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u150	It's just that Antonio Costa is getting much better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u151	Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the admirable fantasies on the right, my favorite thing is to be convinced that it is your admirable government that has lowered interest rates in Portugal. It's a hallucination, or it's a deception, or it's pure stupidity, or it's related to evil, or natural decline! It's just that that's a lie, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is because of the European Central Bank and the excess of international liquidity! So stop bullying people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u152	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u153	I shall conclude, Mr President. My speech will not exceed the time of Mr Costa Neves. When I am in a debate I don't like any external aid, but I have just heard a last-minute news from the SIC News, which realizes that the European Commission puts Portugal under surveillance for excessive economic imbalances. It's not the deficit, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are excessive economic imbalances! It is not Syriza, it is the European Commission! [[PSD protests.]] As I like to finish quoting authors, I will quote an eminent figure from the Portuguese right, Dr. Lobo Xavier. He said the following : « PSD and CDS-PP forced the entry of the troika in Portugal. Chancellor Angela Merkel did not want a concerted, regulated intervention with a memorandum». Lobo Xavier added: « The entrance to Portugal of the troika was led by a wizard apprentice », referring to the Prime Minister, Passos Coelho. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u154	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies. You've already made the quote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u155	Mr President, but as there may still be doubts, in some more refractory heads, about who really brought the troika to Portugal, who wanted the troika, who wanted the troika program and who doubled the social brutality of the troika program, let us then hear what the illustrious Dr. Catroga said. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u156	Sir, I'm sorry, but you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u157	Dr. Catroga said: « Negotiation with the troika was essentially influenced by the PSD. The review of the deficit trajectory was a great victory for the Social Democrats». Who brought the troika to Portugal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u158	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After successive and high budget deficits that caused excessive indebtedness, along with weak economic growth and economic and structural blockade, creditors lost confidence in the country and the electorate lost confidence in the Socialist Party. That is why the former Socialist Government, led by Eng. José Socrates — and for which several Mrs belonged. Members who are sitting here today and who, in assessing by speech and applause, did not take any consequence of the mistakes made — in April 2011 he was able to bring the troika to Portugal. This is how our country has inherited a ransom and will return to this ransom if it repeats the actors and mistakes of the past. After the 2011 legislative elections, a majority composed of the PSD and the CDS emerged which, in Parliament and the government, gave the body to the bullets, entrusted the Portuguese and the social partners and decided to have only one rescue, one program and a clean exit. More than 1390 days later, we are again in this Chamber, in a new year which, unlike the previous year, has begun to be free of the troika - let me repeat that: it has begun free of the troika - which is synonymous with political and financial autonomy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u161	We helped bring the country back to the Portuguese people, and this cannot be considered a small thing. In order for this to become a reality, great sacrifices have been made—it has already been said and it is not too much to repeat—both on the part of the families and on the part of the companies, so this achievement is these people, whom I would like to say very much thank you. However, we are sure that it will be precisely those Portuguese who, at the right time, will be able to distinguish between those who in the past have taken irresponsible measures, a state of management who has exhausted resources and a model that has already proved not to be sustainable and those who have the courage to adopt measures perhaps unpopular but fundamental so that Portugal today will conquer its freedom. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today Portugal is a substantially different country, there is still a long way to go, there are still numerous risks, some that we can control and many others who run away from our sphere of action, but we hear, we see, we read and cannot ignore that the image of Portugal is today better than in the recent past!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u163	Let me give you some examples concerning the last 10 months—and I will not mention António Costa, rest assured: in May 2014 the socialist Martin Schulz praises the clear exit from Portugal ; in July 2014, Ángel Gurría, Secretary-General of the OECD, says that the Government has taken measures to put the economy back on track ; in September 2014, Portugal leaves the cover of the magazine National Geographic Travel with the title Portugal, the old world that is being made again ; in October 2014 the Secretary-General of the OECD says that Portugal is one of the reforming countries par excellence; this year, precisely in February, for the advance reimbursement to the IMF, the President of the Eurogroup stated that this demonstrates "how a country can quickly recover" and that this is "a clear sign of confidence which the markets have in Portugal". Many more examples could be given, but instead we prefer to highlight some fundamental aspects that show that the efforts of companies and families are already producing results: The Portuguese economy has already grown, in terms of counterparts, five consecutive quarters; exports of goods have increased again in 2014, with the textile and clothing sector registered the best year of the last 11 years, exporting EUR 4.6 billion, representing an increase of 8 %, adding a net job creation in this sector of 4000 new jobs. As far as the exports of services are concerned, tourism has been one of the main drivers of our economy. If 2013 had been an excellent year, 2014 was the best year ever! Allow me to highlight some data, even because today, a few moments ago, the Lisbon Tourism Exchange was inaugurated. The hotel house recorded total revenues of 2, 2 billion euros, representing a growth of 12, 8 % compared to 2013. The tourist revenues exceeded EUR 28 million per day, plus one million per hour, which proved decisive for the impact of this sector on the economy to be 6 % in GDP and 6 % in employment. Hotel sleeps grew by about 11% compared to 2013 and more than 46 billion sleeps were recorded. at the guest level, we were even able to grow 12 %. And I'd like to show how growth has been since 2006, 2007 and 2014, always rising. These, yes, are important data.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u165	Practically in all regions of the country, for those who thought that tourism was only growing in two locations of the country, there is a record number of sleeping. The most prominent are 11 % in the North, 10, 6 % in the Centre, 15 % in Lisbon, 15 % in the Alentejo, 11 % in the Algarve. Finally, compared with Spanish tourism, one of our main competitors, it is to be noted that our country has grown more than triple of Spain in terms of sleeping, but I can also show a map that demonstrates how we grow more than France and that Italy, which have negative results, being France the largest receiving country of tourism ever. at the level of business creation, 5 companies were created in 2014, 2, 5 companies each which closed, and the number of companies that closed has been the lowest since 2007. According to the latest data, economic climate indicators have again increased, according to INE — or INEM, as I said by mistake, but if it were INEM it would also give this data because there is no sure way of adulterating what is reality. at the level of public finances, Portugal has been successively reducing its deficit. In 2010, it was 11, 2 % of GDP ; in 2014, the same CL will be below 4 %, i.e. Portugal today has almost three times the deficit it had in 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u166	Mr. Deputies, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u167	I will finish, Mr. President. at the level of funding, as Portugal is more credible today, interest has struck successive historical minimums, as still proved today, and in 10 years have fallen even below the rate at which the United States can place itself. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes, and I repeat: although there are still challenges, this majority and this government, contrary to the left, have contributed to the effort that resulted in the return of the country to the Portuguese after a nearly bankruptcy. The country is now the owner of its destiny and the latest projections indicate that it will continue to grow and will continue to be created wealth in the country. The Portuguese have today every reason to remain confident in the future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u168	Mr. Hélder Amaral, four are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The honourable Member said he would answer two to two. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Encarnation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u169	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mr Hélder Amaral on the subject he brings us. I also wanted to focus on tourism issues. Today begins the BTL — International Tourism Fair, whose inauguration began recently. The statistical data of the tourism that were presented this week deserve all of us the greatest consideration. We also remember that this government has managed to reduce the number of tourism regions, since it was impossible to promote a country with 12 brands, it was impossible to promote a country as short as before. We promoted the reorientation of tourism promotion, which was so expensive and we talked about so much in the past, in particular the mistakes made by previous governments; we reduced the tourist animation rates by 80 %; we liberalized the activity itself; and we reduced the start-up costs of travel agencies to one third. And what did the Socialist Party do about all this? The Socialist Party, with the example of Dr. António Costa, President of the Chamber of Lisbon, has increased rates, seeing in each tourist the value of 1 €. Is this what the Socialist Party intends to do to help increase tourism at national level? It is as simple as this the difference between this majority government and the Socialist Party Government. It is also worth mentioning, Mr President, that this sector has grown in 2013, 12, 4 % ; it represents a revenue of EUR 10, 4 billion compared with the revenue of EUR 7, 6 billion, which was 2010. It is in fact a sector in which it is worth betting, it is a sector that is worth not taxing, as Dr. António Costa defends, is a sector that represents 15% of our exports. Mr. Hélder Amaral, this is the big difference between this majority and the Socialist Party. There is no evidence from the Socialist Party that it is worthy of this statistical data that we know, we have not seen any statement even to heighten the power of the entrepreneurs and the capacity they had to reinvent this sector and to help the Portuguese economy. Mr President, these are the considerations I have to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u170	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you because you have been able to fulfill your time. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u171	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, tourism month yes, agriculture month no. It is more or less the history of the CDS' political declarations that, whenever possible, it empowers the PSD and comes here to assert its flags, at least those flags that did not drop, as in the case of family visa. It's undeniable, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, tourism has grown. And even I say more: it is likely that it will grow even more because of the devaluation of the euro. The questions are as follows: what country have the CDS and PSD promised? What country are we today? What country do we want to be? It is because they have not promised us, nor do we want to be, a country that depends on tourism, a country in which tourism activity, however good it is to some extent... France is the country of Europe that has the most tourism, but it is from the countries that least depends on tourism as a percentage of GDP. We do not want a country in which tourism grows and eliminates the lack of investment, eliminates the lack of production, eliminates the recovery of the productive tissue and deletes the investment in activities of value added and qualification, which is what is needed. That, yes, is the structural problem of the Portuguese economy, is the problem of the new economy that the PSD and the CDS promised but did not deliver. Today we have negative prospects for investment, in such a way that the Prime Minister felt the need to once again come to make a wrong claim that the investment was growing more than lasting consumption. He was already denied, because it was wrong, the numbers were false. What we have is an investment survey that points to negative investment prospects. What we have is a balance of goods which, although in some areas has grown, has a deficit of EUR 10 billion and which is offset by services, and in the service sector everything decreases less tourism. Tourism is the only area that grows and, therefore, honourable Member, the question is not because it grows tourism, the question is why it is nothing more growing than tourism. And if we want to think about the structure of the economy and the future of the country, this is the question we have to answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u172	To reply, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u173	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Nuno Encarnation for the kind way in which she addressed the coalition partner.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u175	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would like to tell you that it is not exactly as you say. I quoted two examples of textile and footwear. I remember that the footwear sector is even considered one of the top 5 of the world's luxury products...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u176	Many years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u177	...and has reached completely record export levels, the best of the last eleven years, as I said. Therefore, I am not talking only about tourism; there are a number of products that have gradually come to conquer markets. And if you notice with a little more attention it is exactly in the extra-Community markets that you get better results. I have heard that the results, with regard to tourism, were Arab Springs, but now you tell me that they are no longer Arab Springs, which is the euro. They'll always make excuses! Madam Member, I would rather say that it is the merit of companies and workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u179	...is the merit of those who work in the sector, which is a vast sector and who have taken care of protecting the tourists who visit us. I was even making an alert, saying that these data need to be protected. And these data are protected with a correct government action — and here I reply to Mr Nuno Encarnation — who knew he was a true partner, he was able to withdraw from the field and remove constraints from the sector when he was most necessary: in what was tourist promotion, a focused promotion; in what was a tourist animation, releasing him from the existing bureaucracy, the affirmation of the regions and what must be the formation in those regions. And I must tell you that this majority is the one that has increased the financial transfers to the regions most; it has changed the organic law of the regions, giving them autonomy, responsibility and greater conditions to create not only product but also to transfer the product to tourist destination. This is obviously a work to be seen, because internal tourism is still a problem, I must say. If we look at the search data, I could tell you about sectors that run less well, but my option is to push for the effort that Portuguese do and say that other sectors should follow the example of tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u181	And I wanted to say to the opposition, at least to the one who is not so distressed when things go well and even satisfied, although it is increasingly rare, is that, in fact, what we have to do, either in Parliament or out of it, is protect these sectors and realize that we have turned around. Mrs Deputies, whatever the indicator — setting up businesses, consumer confidence, investor confidence, economic climate — has generally improved, but it is not all solved or could be. We've come out of very serious problems. We have had to make a huge effort, a huge sacrifice, but these signs mean that we are improving, that we are leaving the recession, that we are leaving the crisis and that we are surely going to get, in a very short time, to give the Portuguese what they expect and what the government has worked so hard to achieve. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u182	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u183	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, he was already in the middle of the political statement and was seeing that he was not talking about tourism and that he was leaving his flag to his partner of coalition, the PSD, who was still bringing this matter to plenary 15 days ago. But no, you went back to your best year tape and spoke in tourism. I still thought it would be possible to speak to us, for example, in the VAT statistics that you use as an argument to maintain, in the restoration, the highest rate in Europe — which has not been published since 2011 but has not spoken, spoke in other matters and mentioned in particular the profits or profits of tourism. It is true, and the Banco de Portugal recently published data referring to it, which last year, in 2014 there were EUR 2000 million of total profits in the tourism sector, having recorded an increase of 5 % compared to the previous year. But what you didn't say was the other side, the back of the medal. For example, according to data from the Ministry of Economy's Strategy and Studies Office, between 2010 and 2013, the average monthly earnings of workers in the housing sector, restoration and similar fell, in real terms, 7, 5 %. The same Office also says that in this sector, the tourism sector, 21 % of workers receive the national minimum wage, while the national average is only 12 %, which means that in the tourism sector is twice. In terms of employment contracts, while the national average of term contracts is 28 %, in the tourism sector it is 39, 5 % and has been increasing. After that, the honourable Member did not speak on another issue which was important to mention, which is the problem the sector is facing. For example, in recent years, in these years that have been the best of all, every time Mr. Member speaks, the Carlos Saraiva hotel group in the Algarve has 350 workers with late wages; there is a reduction of wages in the Marriott hotels in Óbidos ; there is a limitation of trade union activity in the Sheraton hotels in the Algarve ; already this year, there are wage delays in Madeira hotel that affect 520 workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u184	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u185	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying earlier this year, there are salary delays in Madeira hotels that affect 520 workers; at the Hotel Station, in Braga, six months of late wages; there are trainees replacing workers, and even the hotel where the PSD makes its summer university, in Castelo de Vide, entered into insolvency during the year 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u186	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u187	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u188	So, and ending up, Mr President, I wonder whether you continue to reaffirm success in the tourism sector, when does this success reach the workers in the sector? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u189	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u190	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, began by making an analysis to the economy but was fortunate, because today's news is that the European Commission has put Portugal under surveillance because of excessive economic imbalances.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u191	Read it well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u192	And this is due, above all, to high debt and high unemployment! You have to note, Mr. Deputies! This is not indifferent because it is the result of the policies of this PSD/CDS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, with regard to the Government's contribution to encouraging the economy, we have to say that it is completely negative, because even Portugal 2020, as you know, is completely behind schedule. However, as regards measures to support companies, worth EUR 2600 million, which were planned and could be approved by the end of this year, what is happening? Only 600 million will be awarded, i.e. 2000 million euros will be missing which could encourage the economy. This is another negative point that undoes this pink landscape.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u193	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u194	Then I must remind you of the fall in investment which has been terrible in recent years, over 30 %, and we have not recovered. And this is both public investment, and business investment, which continues to be worrying. The same applies to unemployment and emigration, which also continue. But, sir, let's go to tourism. With regard to tourism, in fact, the data are good, but they are not always the best, and we are not building a pink panorama. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u195	Otherwise, beware of this : Portugal has given a tramp in the rankings of competitiveness at the level of tourism, has fallen two places in the global rate of competitiveness in travel and tourism and is now in 20. the place. How did he fall? It has fallen into the regulatory framework; it has fallen into the business environment, in which it has descended three places; it has fallen into human, cultural and natural resources; it has fallen into policy and regulation measures—see only! — giving a 14-seat tramp and now occupying 49. the place; and in the pillar dedicated to priority given to the sector of travel and tourism has fallen nine places, now occupying 29. the position. What happens to other countries? Portugal is in 20. the place and Spain, for example, is in 4. the place, Mr. Deputies. Morocco rose seven places; Turkey rose four places; Malta rose two places; Italy rose one place. So what did we do? What has the government been doing? Tourism strategy, zero! The PENT ( National Strategic Tourism Plan ), as you know, has already finished and has not been reborn—maybe, it is reborn today at the BTL ( Lisbon Tourism Exchange ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u196	You've finished your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u197	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, perhaps, you are reborn today at BTL, but what is true is that the government has let the PENT finish and therefore there is no strategy for tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u198	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u199	We have no longer had the Satellite Account with statistics that could have comparable numbers, the employment rates remain in the order of 38 % for the central region, which is its region. So there's a huge amount of things to do. We would like the picture to be good for all regions and for competitiveness to be strengthened, but that is not what is happening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u200	To reply, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u201	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Ramos and Mr Hortense Martins asked me the questions. Mr. João Ramos, I am not talking only about tourism, although I have to admit that it gives me greater pleasure, since tourism is not my convenience, it is even my life, it is 27 years in the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u202	Is that a statement of interest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u203	So, realize that sometimes I have some pleasure in talking in a sector that runs so well.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u204	And as a worker!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u205	And, above all, as a worker on behalf of others!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u206	He was an explorer of the Pestana Group, would you like to see? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u207	No, it wasn't. Mr. João Ramos, I've heard of everything. I was hoping that, in the face of such overwhelming evidence, in the face of such clear data, provided by so many institutions, at least there was a real ping and said "Well, okay, it went well! », but not so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u208	They could say: “We’re sad, but it went well! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u209	Mr. João Ramos, do you know how much did you increase the average income per room available? It increased 33, 1 €, after growing 9, 5 %. This means we're not selling cheap, but more expensive.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u210	And where are the workers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u211	I'll answer that. Do you know what the World Tourism Organization says? It says the impact of the sector on employment is 6 %. But he says more, he says that every job in the sector, in the core of tourism, creates an additional position and means, leaving a contribution of about 15% in total employment. I even spoke at 6 %, but the World Tourism Organization exponentially increases this value. This means that much more workers benefit from the sector. It is clear that I did not say that we are in the best of the worlds but, now responding to Mrs Hortense Martins, which is strange, even because she also knows the sector and should say that, in fact, these results are exceptional and congratulate companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u212	But that's what I've done!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u213	... and even to the government, if you see the agenda of the decade, what the PS dreams for the agenda of the decade, is already done by this government. The honourable Member could at least say « look, it is all done», but it comes to me with the ranking of competitiveness. I will not, at least, quote Antonio Costa again to get here another strange moment, because this is already strange, since it seems that they are against the sector, which are against several sectors of the Portuguese economy and are already against the António Costa. From time to time, it is also appropriate to stop with this attempt to say bad things and everyone's. But, Mrs Deputy, do you think the rates and taxes imposed by Antonio Costa in the tourism sector increase or decrease our competitiveness in such ranking as you have mentioned? Oh, my God! What do you think happens? Maybe they're lowering competitiveness. Mrs. Deputy, record your efforts to try to paste Dr. António Costa when you come to talk about the funds. In the next framework 2020, EUR 4 billion will be directly or indirectly for the Portuguese economy. But the implementation of the previous Community framework, in relation to that which was the average implementation of the Socialist Party, has nothing to do with it, we shall anticipate the opening of the whole Community framework. And I'll even say more: do you know what really changes? This 2020 framework is for companies, but it is not for companies like the Socialist Party to do, leading the economy and trying to be the owner of growth and economy, as it still does today, in Lisbon, António Costa, which, whenever the sector grows, makes use of tax. If you have been attentive to the presentation of the 2020 table, you know what it says, i.e. that will be results contracts. This means that a certain investment that commits to a certain growth only receives the money if it achieves that growth. It is not like it happened in the past, where money was thrown over the problems and, therefore, until we had reasonable executions, but we did not solve any problem in the country. Perhaps that is why unemployment has always increased during the Government of the Socialist Party. It is true that at first, the fruit of your heritage, we had almost 18 % unemployment, but today we are in virtually the same number as when we inherited the governance of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u214	Only in the tourism sector are 34 000 jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u215	This is very worthwhile, it is the merit of this majority, it is the merit of the government, but it is also the merit of Portuguese and Portuguese companies. I'm sorry that in a sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u216	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u217	With this, I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, I deeply regret that not in a sector that offers no doubt to anyone, with data that offers no doubt to anyone, the opposition is able to say: "Thank you, Portuguese, for having made this effort. We will all protect these results because these results are not definitive, they need protection». I'm sorry you don't want to give this protection to the sector. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u218	Mr António Filipe has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Most PSD/CDS today rejected the PCP proposal for urgent hearing on 1. the Committee of the Secretary-General and the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Republic. This rejection is a very serious fact and cannot be made clear. Otherwise, let's see. in the context of a criminal process in which it is accused by the practice of illegal acts practiced as director of the SIED, specifically the access to data of telephone traffic of a journalist, known in the operational geriatrics by "purchasing list", Jorge Silva Carvalho defends himself, claiming that such illegal acts were common practice of the Information Service. According to the Newspaper of 22 February, in the contest by Silva Carvalho it is stated that access to the detailed billing of the phone of journalist Nuno Simas was made, and I quote, "according to superior guidelines and according to the modus operandi of the Portuguese secret services", that there is a legislative building "which points to a meaning and a practice that points to the contrary" and even though Silva Carvalho "is accused of fulfilling scrupulously what was struck, taught and demanded for years". However, these facts can only bring to our memory the disclosure in June last year of a "procedure manual" in which the Information Services agents were advised to use the databases of telecommunications operators. The Board of Supervisors of the SIRP, when it was heard in this House, affirmed its conviction that the Services do not practice illegal acts and only when Silva Carvalho was constituted was forced to run after the damage caused by his credibility and to recognize the existence of illegalities that had escaped his control capacity. Already the Secretary-General of the SIRP, whenever he was heard in this House, put his hands on the fire for the suitability of the Services he directs, denied the practice of illegal acts and, it is important to remember that even those who were accused of illegal acts committed in the framework of the SIRP, were never the target of any disciplinary procedure. When, in the face of the seriousness of the charges made in court, the majority of parliament refuses to listen not only to the Secretary-General of the SIRP but even to the Supervisory Board, the country must seriously question itself about what is really trying to hide. When the PSD, the CDS and, even, the PS are stuck in the face of such serious accusations, we cannot help but wonder about the obedience that will be behind this attitude. Mr. President and Mr. Members: It is not up to this House to intervene in the judicial proceedings against Silva Carvalho, but it is up to this House to monitor compliance with the law and respect for the Constitution by the Information Services and their guardians. And that competence cannot be removed. If there are public accusations from an former SIED director, in the sense that access to telephone billing data was common practice of the Services and that it was made by higher guidelines, we have a duty to find out who provided such guidelines. And if the Supervisory Board does not know, or wants to know, and if the majority does not allow the Secretary-General of the SIRP to be called to clarify, we are obliged to demand that this issue be fully clarified by those who have the ultimate responsibility for the leadership of the Information Services in this country, i.e. the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u221	It should be recalled that the only member of the Government responsible for the Information System of the Republic is the Prime Minister. This responsibility is not delegated to any other member of the Government. It is the Prime Minister who has to answer before the Assembly of the Republic and before the country for illegal acts committed by the services which are superiorly protected. We must therefore not fail to demand that the Prime Minister decide on the allegations made in a court proceedings that illegal practice, which is under trial and that no one disputes that this has happened, was, or is not, the usual practice of the Information Services and whether or not it was carried out in accordance with superior guidelines and whose. More: the Prime Minister now has an obligation to explain why he has been rejecting requests for the breach of State secrecy in the current court proceedings. Compliance with the law and the Constitution by the Information Services is a fundamental democratic value. If the Prime Minister does not authorize the breach of State secrecy in a judicial process in which the investigation of illegal practices by the Information Services is concerned, we are faced with an unacceptable attitude of obstruction of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u223	The State secret cannot be used by the Prime Minister to cover unconstitutional and illegal actions of the services under his direct protection. In a case where safeguarding fundamental democratic values requires clarity and guarantees of suitability, the silence imposed by the majority of this House is truly absurd. for our part, we will not be silent and we will not abdicate from using all the constitutional mechanisms we have in order to demand accountability for illegal practices of the Information Services and to demand that there are no information services in Portugal to act outside the law and in violation of fundamental rights of citizens. in this sense, I announce that the PCP Parliamentary Group will present a question, in writing, to the Prime Minister to speak about the accusations made to the Information Services for the defense of Jorge Silva Carvalho and to clarify whether it intends to continue to invoke the secret of state to prevent the entire truth and justice in this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u225	We hope that the Prime Minister will fulfill his duty and not invoke subterfuges so as not to answer these questions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u226	The Bureau has three requests for clarification, and I ask Mr António Filipe how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u227	I will answer one by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u228	All right, Mr. Deputies. First of all, Mr Luís Pita Amisexa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u229	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr António Filipe of the CFP on bringing this issue to debate, which has already been discussed in 1. the Commission this morning. The Socialist Party, in this regard, has a well-known and very calm position, which is to always be favourable to the transparency of state services, including these services, but in accordance with its own nature. Therefore, the Information Services have a nature that must be respected and, I would say, compatible with the issue of transparency, in view of that very nature. The Portuguese system is very specific, the Assembly of the Republic exercises its supervisory responsibility through a Supervisory Board. There are other parliaments where it is the parliament itself, directly, or parliamentary committees that make this supervision, but it is not so in Portugal. So our system must be respected, and the first question that I would like to ask Mr António Filipe is whether or not the Communist Party is willing to respect Portuguese law in this respect, following its form of supervision, because it seems to me that it is not normally bound by Portuguese law. We have a number of concerns about the functioning of the SIRP, particularly with regard to its budget. The President of the Supervisory Board stated that after paying the current expenditure, only 10 % of the SIRP revenue is used for its operation. And this has happened with the strong downsizing of the financial capacity of the SIRP over the past few years, led by this PSD and CDS government. This is serious for the country and is reflected in the production of SIRP. However, Mr President, we do not have any new developments here. These same issues which have now been raised had been raised relatively recently. The Secretary-General has been questioned about this, the Supervisory Board has been questioned about this and without bringing about new facts it does not seem very curious to us to be insisting on the same thing just because someone who is in the procedural situation we know sends something of this out. however, as you know, the Socialist Party did not oppose this hearing. The Socialist Party did not interfere with this hearing. But we think if there were any new facts...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u230	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u231	I shall conclude by saying that if there were any relevant new developments on this matter, the Board of Supervisors of the SIRP, which acts on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, would bring them to the Assembly of the Republic. So what I ask you is whether or not Mr António Filipe thinks that the Supervisory Board is aware of new facts — if it does not, did not bring them — and whether the CFP itself has some new facts to present. In any case, within our spirit, we will never hinder these investigations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u232	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u233	Mr President, Mr Luís Pita Amisexa, you say that the PS has a calm position on this matter. I would say that it is too quiet, taking into account the situation that is being revealed before public opinion, through social communication. In fact, the honourable Member has such a calm position that at some point he has changed his mind and started talking about the SIRP budget; then he went back to the subject, but to say that there are no new facts. Sir, isn't there any new facts? Oh, my God! So, there is a former Director of the Strategic Defense Intelligence Services who is accused in a court case for the practice of illegality, in the case of access to telephone billing data from a journalist, and he, in the case, defends himself by saying he received superior guidance? Oh, my God! And saying that this was common practice of the Services? Oh, my God! It is that, so far, the question was treated as having been an anomaly that was solely of the responsibility of Dr. Silva Carvalho, no one knew, that he has deceived everyone, but now he comes to say, in the process, « No, I have received superior guidelines», that can only come from the Secretary-General of the SIRP or the Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u235	...and the honourable Member is here to say that there is no new facts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u236	Who was the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u237	Mr President, if this is not new, I do not know what it is. So I would like to say to you, Mr President, that we do not really understand. Obviously, we completely reject the position that the majority took, in order to obstruct these hearings. We have heard for a number of times whether the Secretary-General of the Sirp wants the Supervisory Board, but I also do not understand the Socialist Party's position to abstain on such a matter. In fact, we do not understand this position, because there are really new developments, which are very serious, and it is an indispensable duty of the Assembly of the Republic to ascertain the facts and responsibilities in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u238	Also to make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u239	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I would like to congratulate you on the political statement that you have made here and to accompany you, of course, in the relevance of the request that the CFP brought to 1. the Commission and which was plunged by the majority, with the abstention of the PS. I take this opportunity to say that the Left Block has already asked Mr Prime Minister a question because he considers that the information that came to the fire is extremely serious. It is indeed a new situation which implies a new assessment. This complaint that the access to telephone data of a journalist, knowing us, as well here he recalled, the said manual of procedures for agents and all that was written there, this trivialization of access to telephone data of a journalist made by superior guidelines, being modus operandi of the Information Services of the Portuguese Republic, with the note that the law is one thing and the practices are other, is it not new matter that justifies evaluation and weighting? Oh, my God! It's obviously! from our point of view, it is serious enough to once again put a picture of suspicion, calling into question the health of the democratic state itself. We cannot continue to live with suspicions of this nature and, Mr President, it is at least strange this kind of blocking force created between the majority and the PS. I would like to recall that in the past, in multiple circumstances where doubts existed, in particular suspicions such as those that the law is one thing and practices are another, most have made numerous demands, in particular the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to hear the Secretary-General of the SIRP, to hear the Supervisory Board. There was a time when you wanted to find out about this whole suspect picture... in this sense, Mr António Filipe, it is at least strange that, in the current framework, there is a blocking force which prevents the House from fulfilling its supervisory function and is also unacceptable — and I ask whether we are also accompanied by this concern — that Mr Prime Minister remains silent. Mr. Prime Minister is still silent on fundamental issues. The majority does not allow the Supervisory Board to come to the Assembly of the Republic, does not let us hear the Secretary-General of the SIRP, and the Prime Minister is still silent about a suspicious climate impeding the Information Service of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u240	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u241	In our view, this silence is complicating with this suspicion that the law is one thing and the practices are another and, in this sense, Mr Deputy, I would like to accompany you in this need and urgency to clarify this new matter in every way, clarify these suspicions that call into question the rule of law. That is what we are talking about, it is not a small matter, and it is necessary to understand why today the majority is blocking the capacity of the Assembly of the Republic to monitor this issue and, at the same time, because Mr Prime Minister maintains a complicity on suspicion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u242	Mr António Filipe has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u243	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, thank you very much for the question that has been raised. on the issue you have raised, I believe that it is very relevant to the aspect of Mr. Prime Minister's own responsibilities, and this is not a minor aspect, on the contrary. in fact, the Prime Minister is the only member of the Government who is responsible for the Information Services. There were moments when this function was delegated to the Minister of Internal Administration. The law allows this to happen, but in the current government this does not happen. It is a legitimate option of the Government that is the Prime Minister who is directly responsible for the Information Services, but this also implies an added responsibility from the political point of view of the Prime Minister himself, to which he cannot be exempted, and it is very worrying that in this process the Prime Minister, so far, has dismissed all the demands so that the defendant may break the secret of state in his defense. It is that if we are discussing serious violations of the law and the Constitution by the Information Service, if we are discussing a very serious issue that is whether or not this service does telephone interceptions or has access to telephone billing data outside the law and the Constitution, which is a matter of greater relevance from the democratic, institutional and legal point of view, whether it is discussing a matter of these and the Prime Minister invokes the secret of state to prevent the court itself from gaining access to the truth of the facts, then we are faced with a very serious attitude from the Prime Minister's side. That is an issue that needs to be clarified. We need to know whether Mr. Prime Minister will invoke the secret of state to prevent the court from knowing the truth in a clear obstruction of justice. As our people say, who should not be afraid and, in view of this invocation of the secret of state, it is fair to fear that the Information Service is acting outside the law and that it has political coverage at the highest level by the Prime Minister. This is an extremely worrying issue and cannot fail to be clarified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u244	Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u245	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, with all due regard and respect for me, I cannot fail to mention today that the honourable Member has fallen into the trap of the former director of SIED. There is no doubt, for those who have followed this novel three years ago, that this strategy for the defense of the former director of the SIED precisely aims to provoke reactions within the framework of political power, in particular 1. the Commission and the Assembly of the Republic, which we do not want to correspond to. We were very clear today at the 1st meeting. the Commission, when we explained and grounded the reason why we did not favourably vote on this requirement of the Communist Party. We have not voted in favour of it because—and now using a lexicon that is used to be of the Communist Party and that I am going to appropriate—we refuse to be a ghost of the former director of the SIED who, through his right of defence, is provoking the political power to make this case a political case rather than a judicial case.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u246	What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u247	I must remind you, Mr António Filipe, that, contrary to what I said in the political statement that brought us here, the PSD Parliamentary Group did not agree only when Dr Silva Carvalho was constituted, because before Dr Silva Carvalho was constituted, in a report which he knows and which was carried out in the context of 1. the Commission was precisely the PSD Parliamentary Group which pointed out the facts indicating possible irregularities within the Information Service. Therefore, the work of the PSD Parliamentary Group, an effective work with regard to the monitoring of possible irregularities committed within the scope of the said service, preceded the constitution of the defendant. I must remind you, too, Mr, that Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho was exempted from the Services on November 8, 2010. on this date, the Prime Minister of Portugal had a name: José Socrates. It was not Pedro Passos Coelho nor this majority who were in the government at the time of the termination of office of Jorge Silva Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u248	Did these practices end at this time?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u249	A 1. the Commission heard Jorge Silva Carvalho on 7 September 2011, precisely on these facts. It is the understanding of this parliamentary group that, at the moment, this strategy of defense by Jorge Silva Carvalho, which, as you know, will have a version — which will be able to assess why he has knowledge of the facts, although it cannot be revealed because we are subject to secrecy — that will or will not be consistent with the version he presented to us in hearing in 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u250	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u251	Mr António Filipe is in a position to assess this issue, although he cannot disclose it publicly. But the truth is we have done this monitoring work. Mr President, I would like to conclude by asking the honourable Member the following question: on the possible irregularities which the former director of the SIED implies, in the context of his defence strategy, Mr António Filipe is going to address the letter to which Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u252	Are you suggesting that the current protects the previous one? They must have few straw tails!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u253	This is because Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho ceased his duties, I repeat, on November 8, 2010. So I ask you what Prime Minister is going to address this letter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u254	Mr António Filipe has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u255	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I think that the honourable Member has no doubt as to who the Prime Minister is in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u256	I don't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u257	Mrs. Deputy came to say that we fell into the defense trap of Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho. If there is a party in this House that cannot be accused of having any political or other relationship with Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho is the PCP. We have never appointed him for anything, but the PSD cannot say the same, because the fact — said by itself, in interviews — has never been denied that he has been invited by the current government to assume the post of Secretary-General of the SIRP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u258	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u259	It has never been denied — that I have seen — that he has been invited, including, to be he to draw up the PSD electoral programme for the information services area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u260	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u261	So if anyone has any political relationship with Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho, it's not us. In fact, it is enough to see the role of defence witnesses he presented to see that there is no one in the PCP, but the PSD cannot say the same. Madam Member, we believe that the Assembly of the Republic must not interfere in the judicial proceedings, nor in the defence or prosecution strategies. In fact, in this regard, justice is what justice is. however, what the Assembly of the Republic cannot ignore is that there are very serious accusations that are made, are in the public domain, are headlines of newspapers and cause social alarm. That is something that the Assembly of the Republic cannot be indifferent to. The honourable Member asks: "What do the Prime Minister want to ask the questions? Is it the Prime Minister who appointed Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho as Director of the SIED or is he the current one? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I tell you very clearly, Mrs Deputies, it is the Prime Minister who invokes the secret of state in a court proceedings so that the truth is not ascertained. It is the Prime Minister who is in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u262	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u263	And I also say to you that it was fundamental, from a democratic point of view, that he did not obstruct justice, that he would let the process continue, as it has to go on, and that the truth that needs to be ascertained should be ascertained. If the secret of State continues to be invoked, if the majority continues to prevent the Assembly of the Republic from clarifying what it needs to clarify and if the Prime Minister continues to refuse to provide clarification to the Assembly of the Republic on this matter, the Portuguese have every reason to be concerned about the suitability of the information services in this country and its political protection. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u264	Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u265	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u266	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u267	Mr. President, I asked Mr. President to inform Mr. Mr António Filipe that this House not only received the rejection of the Prime Minister's office regarding the invitation of Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho to Director of the Information Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u268	When? When?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u269	... — shall be forgotten, or shall make such denials irrelevant, as at the meetings of 1. the Commission, several times, I myself informed the Members. Members of 1. the Commission that Dr. Jorge da Silva Carvalho has never been invited to run the Information Service by the current Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u270	Was there too when that didn't happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u271	He was invited, yes, by the former Prime Minister, José Socrates, and therefore performed this function, but by the current Prime Minister he was never invited. For the preservation of the democratic rule of law, Mr President, let me also ask you to ask Mr António Filipe not to overthrow the issues relating to the preservation of the secret of State, which the Constitutional Court considers to be related, in certain circumstances, to the right to defence. So what Mr.António Filipe did here when he referred several times to the question of State secrecy as a way of handling the truth by the Prime Minister, was to throw sand into the eyes of those who listen to us, precisely because the State secret prevails...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u272	This is a political declaration!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u273	It's an intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u274	... and may prevail over the right of defence, and that is what the Constitutional Court sets by judgment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u275	Mr António Filipe also wants me to give Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho some information? [[PS and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u276	No, Mr. President, on the contrary. Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho asked you to send us the lie that Mr. Prime Minister had brought to this House, saying that Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho had never been invited to anything. I ask you, if you can find him, please let him come in. And I wish you good luck in this research, Mr President, because we have never seen it. [[PCP's laughs and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u277	I will try to unburden myself of these two missions, although I feel that both of you are. Ladies and gentlemen heard what was requested.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u278	Don't waste time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u279	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor to make a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u280	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today there is an enormous international consensus against the consumption of genetically modified organisms. This consensus also extends to the overwhelming majority of European governments. That is why the European Union has recently changed the rules of the game on the authorisation of genetically modified organisms. In 2013 Monsanto agrochemistry announced that it would give up trying to approve the cultivation of new GMO varieties in Europe. Everything because it was extremely difficult to get it. First, the European Food Safety Authority would have to give green light and then the decision was taken by the vote of the representatives of the Member States. It happens that, as I said, the overwhelming majority of European governments oppose the GMOs, soon the approval of the introduction of new species did not actually exist. Since 2005, the Authority had given green light to eight varieties, but none had obtained authorisation in the European Commission. There are only two authorised bodies for cultivation in the EU : Monsanto corn MON810 and BASF amflora potatoes. It happens that in 2012 BASF decided to stop cultivating potatoes in Europe precisely because of the hostility that this type of crop generates on our continent. In short, there is a single variety of corn. The opposition of peoples and the rejection of governments prevented the spread of GMOs in Europe. Several countries have even banned the cultivation of GMOs in their territories and in the European Union only a minority of five countries allow it. Spain, with 132 000 hectares, and Portugal, with 8500 hectares, are the main producers, joined by the Czech Republic, Romania and Slovakia. This is the reality of GMOs in Europe. The will of the peoples is unequivocal. For this reason, the European Union has changed the rules on cultivation, refraining from legislating itself, returning the power of decision-making to the States. They gave the Member States the possibility of restricting or banning cultivation in their territories, which in practice had already occurred. The Portuguese Government does not now have the conditioning of most governments but knows that it is isolated in the European Union. He also knows he's isolated in his own country. We refuse that Portugal is an island in Europe and that it is the paradise of the GMOs in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u282	It was a bad decision, however, of the European Union. The European Union itself should have corrected the European model of authorisations and should have applied the precautionary principle itself in relation to the consequences on public health and genetic biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u283	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u284	But no, the European institutions preferred to turn their faces. We have huge concerns about this decision, which we share with several non-governmental organisations in the area of the environment. In other words, this amendment of the rules may attempt to bring the multinationals to the court those States that democratically decide to veto their territory to these bodies. It is such a major and unacceptable concern when it may be attached to the approval of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement, commonly known as TTIP. People's pressure is increasing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Even in the United States, which are the largest GMO producers and where public opinion was traditionally more favourable, this is changing. at the beginning of last year, a multinational agri-food company was forced to remove GMO from its breakfast cereals, from the most consumed in the country. It does not solve the problem, but it mirrors the consensus that extends in society. There is no doubt a problem on the planet with lack of food, but the GMOs at nothing solve this problem. The problem of poverty is not solved by concentrating more on wealth. The cultivation of GMOs gives unmeasured power to the agrochemical industry, makes countries dependent on their seeds and pesticides so much a risk to public health, the consequence of which is not denied, and to the ecosystem. at a time when the world population of bees is threatened, it is necessary to change paradigm. As a rule, GMOs or secrete pesticides—such as MON810 corn—or have exceptional resistance to these chemicals. This leads to a high concentration of these chemicals in the ecosystem, either by self-production or by excessive use. Especially in the United States, we have seen the return of the use of highly toxic pesticides, as is the case with herbicide 2.4 - D, nothing more than a derivative of the orange agent, a chemical weapon that we all know and that was used in the Vietnam war. The time has come for us to say no to the GMOs in Portugal. This is the case in almost all of Europe. This is also the case in the agricultural powers of Europe. That is the will of the people's caution. For this reason, we have presented to the Assembly of the Republic, and others will also do so, a proposal to prohibit the cultivation, import and marketing of genetically modified organisms. The Portuguese Government has been on the wrong side with regard to food security. Two years ago he voted in the European Union against the prohibition of three pesticides responsible for the decline of the bee population. The prohibition was a majority and was approved. He now insists on protecting the interests of agrochemical multinationals, although practically isolated in the European Union, by authorising the cultivation of GMOs. He was wrong and isolated, and so he goes on. Our way in this area has been quite clear: to approve the precautionary principle. We already did it in the year 2000, specifically in relation to some varieties of GMOs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not acceptable for the Minister of the Environment, Jorge Moreira da Silva, to tell us that he will maintain the authorization for transgenic maize in Portugal when he clearly puts himself within the scientifically proven idea, he says that this GMO has no effect on public health or the ecosystem. According to the Minister of the Environment, the precautionary principle is guaranteed because GMOs have no injury, no conflict with the precautionary principle. It is regrettable that the Government maintains this minority opinion, now completely decadent in Europe. We have left the alert here because unfortunately not only the PSD/CDS government is preparing to maintain the authorisation for that genetically modified organism as eventually released from the European Union's conditionings can even authorize other types of genetic varieties. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u285	The Bureau has three requests for clarification, to which you will answer together. Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome Mr Luís Fazenda. Mr President, on this subject, the CFP considers that the history of Portuguese legislation is not quite famous, we consider it to be inadequate in our view of the national interest. First of all, as it determines that a municipality can be considered free of GMOs, in our opinion, is reversed, because as long as a farmer refuses to be considered by his municipality, it cannot and should not be the opposite, i.e. as long as there was at least one farmer who did not want to plant genetically modified organisms in his municipality, this impediment should be considered, until there are various problems related to this subject, namely cross-pollinization, which today are very concrete. In addition, multinationals have been processing farmers who have genetically modified varieties when they did not plant them, that is, when they came to their possession by cross pollination with the varieties they use. with regard to the population of bees, we have another problem, which the honourable Member has also addressed, derived from the use of GMOs. It is known the case of Argentina, which was the second world producer of honey and which in five years moved to fifth producer, when the GMO plantation was extended. In Portugal the hives are collapsed, with implications for pollination and even economic implications in the agricultural sector. Unfortunately, on the possibility now of Member States being able to determine on this matter, the Minister for Agriculture has also told us that the Government will do nothing about this issue, allowing the use of these bodies in Portugal to be maintained. from the PCP, we have been doing intervention, we have already delivered bills, draft resolutions. Unfortunately, the bill has been plummeted, so we are prepared to deliver another bill, in view of this new reality, which admits the planting of genetically modified organisms only in a controlled environment and for very specific purposes, including research and medicinal purposes, prohibiting all others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u287	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u288	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, the very concrete question is the following: what is the use of this hand-washing by the Portuguese Government when it does not wish to intervene in this matter? It serves the national interest or serves a set of multinational interests that are very installed in this area. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u289	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u290	Mr President, Mr Luís Fazenda, I would also like to congratulate you on bringing the issue of transgenic cultures to this session of political declarations today. He has told us about the European Union's issue of having now sent the decision on the cultivation of transgenics to the Member States. It is not a question that, in itself, leaves us absolutely at rest, because the weight of multinational pressure on an isolated State can dictate a greater fragility of that State in relation to that pressure, and that is something that we must be very careful about. But we are particularly concerned about the position of the Portuguese Government, which he also referred to, because, with regard to transgenic cultures, the Portuguese Government has an idea as if they were done in laboratory, in closed boxes, and were not done in open fields, and there have indeed been real contamination hypotheses. The issue is that the Government refuses to disseminate the location of transgenic crops in Portugal. In other words, society, people, in particular, are themselves prevented, I would say, from monitoring, from observing the very direct effects of transgenic cultures. This location is not disclosed by the Government. What is the government afraid of? Perhaps, Mr President, what does the Government have to hide about this? We, the Greens, in view of this position of the European Union to refer the decision on the cultivation of transgenics to the Member States, believe that the parties who have been refugees in argumentation to say that "we should not do anything here, because if the European Union decides, we should trust and, therefore, we will do according to the rules that the European Union establishes", now have no such argument and have another reality, which is that of numerous countries in the European Union, such as Germany, Poland, Hungary, Greece, Austria, France and others, take decisions to ban the cultivation of transgenics due to the enormous doubts and fears that arise there for health and the environment. Therefore, these parties which have so far said not to be cautious about the transgenics must be set to reflect on one order and another. Therefore, Mr Deputies, and as you know, at the last conference of leaders, the Greens decided to schedule for the next 12 March a bill forbidding — is our proposal — the cultivation of transgenics in Portugal, i.e. a moratorium, the application of the precautionary principle also in Portugal, as in other countries of the European Union. The majority parties have already been asked to reflect on this issue, because the Greens, in fact, have taken this initiative to put this Parliament to discuss on 12 March the subject of the cultivation of transgenics. Once again, Mr Luís Fazenda, thank you very much for your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u291	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block presented a bill which entered the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea yesterday and, of course, makes a political statement on this matter today, which I must say is strange, although we do not question why this happened. on 12 March we are going to have a debate on this subject and, of course, it will be in this debate that the Socialist Party will state its positions on the concrete issue of the ban on transgenics in Portugal. It did not make sense to anticipate this discussion for today. In any case, there are three or four notes that we would like to leave in this debate. First of all, we also believe that this is something that should be European and that should therefore be treated by the European Commission, which has washed its hands and returned this responsibility to the Member States. But we know the difficulties that have always had with most of the blocking to make decisions on these issues. On the other hand, we also share the idea—in fact, which has always been included in the debate and in the positions of the Socialist Party—of the principle of caution, which has always been in the discourse of the Socialist Party. It is true that the Left Block considers that the precautionary principle must be synonymous with prohibition, which means that, at the very end of our reasoning, there is no need for precautionary principle, i.e. if there is no prohibition there is no precautionary principle. Of course, we will also say what our position is on this subject. Then there are subjects on which we think there is much to be done, particularly with regard to the right of information for producers and consumers. This is an essential issue and there is no transparency at present, either from the point of view of information from producers or from the point of view of consumer information. We believe that in the Ministry of Agriculture there should be a good information system that would allow all farmers to know exactly where transgenic farming is being done in Portugal and that does not happen. in the same way that there is no labelling system that allows consumers to clearly identify what they are consuming and whether or not they are consuming transgenic products.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u293	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u294	These are concerns that we naturally share and in the debate at the right time, we will say what our position is in relation to the bill presented by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u295	To reply, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u296	Mr President, Mr Miguel Freitas, I must conclude that on the right hand side, PSD and CDS, or there is no interest in pollination, or there is some feeling of shame in the position of the Minister of the Environment and, as such, they have let him down in this debate. But let's leave it for another moment and another circumstance. I assume that the Minister for the Environment is not in Berlin, so I think we can have this debate openly. The Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party announced here bills and I was expecting the PS to do so too. I hope that's still happening. What Mr. Deputy of the Socialist Party, Miguel Freitas, intuited, well-intuited. We have sparked this debate, we have delivered the bill last week and we want to provoke other debates in order to draw the attention of the scientific community, of the university, of certain means of agro-industry, of environmental organizations, so that, when there is the scheduling, which in time was even required by the Greens Ecological Party, there is another perception of the public opinion and of the sectors most interested in what changes we are discussing here. So it was in this sense that we took the initiative to move forward with this debate and with others, which we will be doing extra-Hemiciclo. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we understand is that the perennial statement by the Minister of the Environment, Jorge Moreira da Silva, that the transgenics and, in particular, transgenic maize, which is cultivated and marketed in Portugal, does not pose any danger to public health and the ecosystem and that therefore the precautionary principle is fulfilled in Portugal, is a declaration that we cannot accept in any way. in this matter as, of course, in many, there are agnostics and atheists. There are those who believe that the precautionary principle is resolved with the absolute prohibition and there are those who doubt that it is appropriate not to authorize or establish moratoriums until there is some kind of scientific confirmation. Now, what happens is that the right and your Environment Minister have not taken any of these positions. on the contrary, they sanctioned the practice in relation to cultivation, much of it undeclared, unknown — the mechanism of municipalities free of transgenics is pious, but it is not effective, it is not real, there is no transparency, there are no rules, there is no control even about it. We know that there are a total of hectares that are being used and little more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u297	We have a marked debate on this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u298	We know, people's voice, where, more or less, this is happening, but we don't know much more. There has not been a policy of public responsibility dealing with genetically manipulated organisms. The problem of the European Union having ‘washed its hands’ implies not only that the multinationals can push even more an isolated state, but also that the Food Safety Agency has left eight authorisations for eight different species which, eventually, the Portuguese Government now understands that it can liberalise and accept other GMOs, in addition to the maize already grown in the country and which is eventually marketed in Portugal. This is the risk and on it I think there should be a great convergence of forces to, in this matter, succeed the step by what has been being the challenge everywhere and even the retreat in public opinion and in some administrative and legal procedures in the United States itself, which were the great champions of GMO dissemination, until there are home to some of the main multinationals of agrochemistry. Therefore, they used the State apparatus itself in the United States of America for this purpose and for the export of the scientific ideas and theses which, we all know, have been exhilarated by the multinationals themselves, and this, shamefully, has also invaded the Portuguese academy. But the debate is open and I would, in fact, like to call on all sides to come to this debate, because it is a very important debate on how a country treats its ecosystem and whether or not it has a vision of strategy on the seeds, the organization of its territory, what is the living nature of its territory and its environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u299	Mrs. Members, having completed the political declarations, we will begin point 2 of our agenda, which includes the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 607 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by promoting the extension of the system of exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of absence, disability, impediment or death of parent ( PS ) and 786 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code on Parental Responsibilities ( CDS-PP and PSD ). To present the PS bill, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we are discussing here today aims to attribute the legal link to the situations of fact generated in many families, but whose children have in their spouse or in their parent's partner a reference figure in which the profound ties of affectivity. The spouse or partner of the parent generally assumes parental responsibility, but does not see it recognized by law, and this right is above all a right of the minor, insofar as the spouse or partner of the parent, in assuming parental responsibility, assumes before the State the power to guarantee the child's development. We talk about affectivity relationships that have developed over a long time enough for the State to recognize this care relationship. The judge of the family court shall have the task of testing the existence of this relationship, with the weight that his experience gives him. We well know that today there is already the possibility of the spouse or the parent's partner to assume, in some way, the protection of acts of the child's normal life, but the truth is, in exceptional situations of the child's life, only through the protection of parental responsibility is that this power-duty can be assumed. Therefore, we aim to regulate these relationships so much that, in essence, they can contribute, at decisive moments, to the free development of the child. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u301	To present the draft law of the CDS and PSD, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that we present is going globally in the same direction as that which was now presented by Mrs Isabel Oneto, who, moreover, had the initiative and merit of having, from the outset, put this issue on the political and parliamentary agenda, which obviously wanted to recognize here why I know it is fair. What is at stake with this project? Basically, it amends the Civil Code on parental responsibilities. Doing essentially what? Allowing that, when one of the parents is prevented from exercising those same responsibilities, the other parent may share them with a third person, who will be either his or her spouse or the person he or she is actually united with. This is the essential core of this project. It also has a second fundamental change: in the case of impediment not one but of the two parents — death or other type of impediment — in this case the spouse or de facto union of any parent extends and integrates the list of persons who may exercise the same parental responsibilities. Basically, this is what's at stake. What's relevant to saying, besides this? First of all, Mr. President and Mr. Members, this project effectively aims to solve concrete and serious situations, serious and relevant problems addressed to real people. That is the subject of this diploma. Secondly, as has been said here, and well, in other previous debates, in this project we always lay as essential foundation the interest of the child. There is no other interest that, at some point in this project, can surpass the fundamental interest that the law has to protect, which is the child's interest. This project, modestly, does not intend to amend fundamental legal institutes. It does not alter affiliation, because it does not change, there is no change in affiliation, it does not change adoption, it does not change marriage, nor does it change, especially — and this is important for us — the concept of family; it remains. The project, modestly, putting the interests of children first, responds to situations where these children may need support, may need help. I also stress, Mr President, that, even in those cases, this request will always be voluntary and not automatic, requires an intervention so that it may be possible. As in the Socialist Party's project that Mrs Isabel Oneto presented, requires judicial intervention, i.e., we will always have an assessment of a judge in relation to this same situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is basically the issue. I would also like to stress the following, which is also very clear in our proposal: if there is a barrier between the two parents, either the spouse or the person actually united by one of them to assume parliamentary responsibility... I'm sorry, I meant parental responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u303	If it's going well, it's even parliamentary responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u304	Parliamentary responsibility is ours in approving the project! Now, being parental responsibility, it allows us to value something that seems very important to me, which is the emotional connection. That is, from the child’s point of view, from the child’s interest point of view, what will happen is that this minor will not be removed from his reality, from his environment and will have to take care of himself, to care for himself and to take care of himself someone he knows, with whom he has a bond of affection. That is the idea and we obviously hope that this project on parental responsibility can now, yes, obtain parliamentary consensus. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u305	by PSD, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Parliament has been discussing matters relating to the family for these days. Yesterday and this morning, in a number of parliamentary committees, reports were discussed and voted on, which comply with the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic under the title "To deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth". Now, we discuss two projects, one from the PS and the other from the CDS, about this theme of the family, specifically of parental responsibilities. This focus of attention on the family and families by this sovereignty agency is synonymous with valuing and centralizing the debate around this basic cell of society. Let this focus of attention be effective and fruitful. Legislation on parental responsibilities requires special care. We are dealing with particularly sensitive issues because intrinsically linked to the reality of people, parents, children, children, families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u307	But the delicateness of the matter cannot paralyze us to a reality in constant change and to the new challenges emerging from the current family and social context. We therefore propose that, when one of the parents is prevented from exercising his parental responsibilities, the other parent may share them with a third person, who already accompanies the growth and development of the minor. This person may be the spouse or de facto union of the parent who has exercised parental responsibilities or any family member of the two parents. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u308	In this way, affective ties, closer relationships, the emotional stability of the child, strong and lasting relationships, finally, seek to achieve the best for the child, which we call their best interest. A new purely relative impediment is also introduced that prevents marriage between the person who has exercised parental responsibilities and their child. One last amendment is that, in the event of the impediment of both parents, parental responsibilities may be attributed no longer only to someone with blood ties from either of them but also to the spouse or de facto union of any of the parents. In all these decisions, the child should, whenever it becomes appropriate, be heard. The PS bill deserves our generic reception. We understand that, eventually, in the field of expertise, you may deserve some improvement, considering some of the opinions already received. But these new challenges that arise from the current family and social context to which I mentioned at the outset, should not separate us from the guiding and uncompromising principles of our Constitution of the Republic, although Law No 61 / 2008 of 31 October has been a turning point in the traditional concept in force. We must also not forget the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the principles enshrined therein. In short, respecting the existing legal institutes—of affiliation, adoption, marriage, family—we seek to strengthen the protection of children in the event of absence, disability, impediment or death from one of the parents, valuing the relationships of closeness and affection that protect the child. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u309	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today legislative initiatives to amend the Civil Code by promoting the extension of the system of exercise of parental responsibilities, in the event of absence, disability, impediment or death of parent. The CFP shares the view that the best interests of the child should be the criterion and the basis for the allocation of parental responsibilities. This means that, in the first place, the allocation should be for the parents, but also for those who in the day-to-day build relationships of love, affection, affection and protection and thus contribute to their physical, intellectual, moral and social growth and development. The best interests of the child should require the analysis of each specific situation and of each specific family. The reality of families and family relations is not immutable and, over time, knows new expressions and dimensions. There is no single model of families, but very diverse experiences. Mr. President, Members: Since 2008 the law has recognized the possibility of assigning parental responsibilities to someone in the family of any of the parents, although only in the case of both parents are prevented from exercising those responsibilities. The proposals discussed today are intended to allow, if one of the parents is absent, disabled, prevented by law or died, the other parent may share parental responsibilities with a third person, with whom he or she is married or living in a de facto union. The CFP considers it important to clarify in the proposals submitted that, in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons or dissolution of the de facto union — when it occurs before the minor reaches majority or emancipation — these should not be the decisive criterion for determining the end of shared parental responsibilities, as is invoked in one of the legislative initiatives. It is also important for the CFP to clarify that, given the particularities of each case, the allocation of these responsibilities may affect the acts of the child's current life, the issues of particular importance or both, according to the child's interest and according to the will of the applicants. The Portuguese Communist Party understands that in all these decisions the child should be heard. from the Portuguese Communist Party, we will be available to contribute, ensuring a legal solution to many situations that exist today in the concrete life of many families. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u311	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u312	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills of Mrs. Isabel Oneto, PS, and CDS-PP try to respond to what problems and needs of which families? This discussion was made here exactly by the CDS and it seems to us that there is a point of a situation that matters to do. Simplifyingly, both bills extend parental responsibilities to stepmothers and stepchildren, in situations of absence, disability or impediment, duly recognized by the court, of the parents of a child. in the case of the CDS bill, there is the possibility of greater openness, because this same possibility is created for situations where there is only one father or mother—and I am trying to simplify. None of these initiatives are therefore at the heart of the fundamental issues we are discussing here regarding adoption or even, in the recent past, co-ordination. And, as I don't like to forget, I will remember that the bill we discussed here today, presented by the PS, was exactly an answer in the context of the debate that the PS then made about co-adoption. This is a given context, which should not be forgotten. This should also be made clear: none of these legislative initiatives respond even to the demands of co-ordination. These real families and real children today have two mothers or two parents. Therefore, they obviously do not need stepmothers or stepchildren. We need to speak clearly on the basis, on what is behind both legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u313	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u314	There is, however, a question that should not be put outside: what you see. Ex.as closed with the door open with a window crack, if the wind hit very hard, especially in the CDS bill. in this sense, for us, there is a preservation of unacceptable discrimination in relation to homoparent families and, at the same time, the food of a misunderstanding. It is that couples of the same sex cannot adopt, but can either one or one of them, especially under your initiative, in very limited and very exceptional cases, have parental responsibilities over a child. Thus, they closed with the door, but if the wind hits hard, they open a small crack.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u315	It's law! There's nothing to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u316	The spouse (husband or, in the case of a woman, his wife) of a man or woman who is prevented, absent or incapacitated by the court—because it is only in this case that you accept this prediction—you may, in these situations, have parental responsibilities over the child of that person or of that person who is prevented, absent or incapacitated. It is clear that they continue to say — and this is the biggest misunderstanding — that they cannot adopt. But in certain circumstances — very, very, very limited — they may have parental responsibilities. Now, this possibility that they accept here is, for us, absolutely hypocritical. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Your bill, Mr Telmo Correia, is, however, more positive on two relevant issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u317	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u318	I shall conclude, Mr President. First of all, by opening up with regard to the existence of a single parent — from this point of view, your bill opens a door which Mrs Isabel Oneto's bill does not open. And at the same time, because he tries to solve a very important fundamental issue, which is that of the irrevocability of parental responsibilities. in this sense, your bill goes further and is more coherent on such a sensitive issue as this one, that of parental responsibilities be irrevocable, and tries to resolve what is one of the fundamental criticisms of various opinions, particularly of the Advocates' Order. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u319	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u320	Mr President, I would just like to clarify the plenary on an issue now raised by Mrs Cecilia Honorio and which has to do with the relationship of this bill with the co-ordination regime. I wanted to make it very clear that the two regimes are not incompatible and that, above all, the honourable Member is trying to see only what the door clearly opens in the window.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u322	Mrs Cecilia Honorio, if, in a homosexual relationship, one of the spouses does not want to co-adopt, you think he cannot assume parental responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u323	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u324	They want more and they don't want less.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u325	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u326	Madam Member, at least let us look at the real situations that exist today and start solving the problem there. Now, we have to look at the whole situation. on the day when the co-adoption is approved, this regime maintains its reason for being.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u327	What's the reason?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u328	They're different things. There is no incompatibility, neither in relation to adoption nor in relation to co-adoption. We're going to leave the criterion of each one, one day, decide what he wants to do; we're not going to restrict the field to one solution. If, one day, co-ordination is approved, there is no reason not to maintain the sharing of parental responsibility. I think that's obvious. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u329	Mrs. Members, we conclude here the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 607 / XII ( 3. ( a ) ( PS ) and 786 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( CDS-PP / PSD ), to be voted on Friday, during the voting period. Let us turn to petition No 391 / XII ( 3. a ) — Presented by João António Rondão Almeida and others, expressing support for the defense of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas, and the right of patients to health services, together with the draft resolutions 1273 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defense of the medical-surgical emergency at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas ( PS ), 1276 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the services provided at Santa Luzia Hospital, Elvas ( BE ) and 1278 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by improving the Hospital de Santa Luzia in Elvas, and in defense of users' access to health services ( PCP ). To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Sandra Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I congratulate the honourable Members. Presidents of the Municipal Chambers of Elvas, Dr. Nuno Mocinha, Alandroal and Borba, the Commander Rondão Almeida, the 11,486 petitioners and all the Elvenians who are here today present in the galleries in defense of their hospital and in defense of the rights and dignity of the people in access to health. With the petition and draft resolution submitted by the PS, which today are discussed, all, together, autarchs, Commander Rui Nabeiro, petitioners, Elvenses and subscribers of the draft resolution, intend, on behalf of the sustainability of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, of Elvas, the reclassification of the Basic Emergency Service for Medical Emergency. They also seek permission for the patients of the nearby municipalities, including the municipalities of the district of Évora, to have freedom of choice to do their consultations, supplementary diagnostic examinations and to receive treatment and hospitalization at the Hospital de Santa Luzia. currently, one of the main factors that prevents this hospital unit from fulfilling its natural mission and from making its resources profitable is the fact that it is tied to the pond classification, such as Basic Emergency Service. Considering only the basic urgency, without specialities, the resources already installed will be underutilized and, as such, more expensive. From then on, it will increase the cost of transporting patients, the cost of using other hospital units, some already without real capacity to respond, as well as the cost of resorting to medical acts in Spain. The Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas, only becomes viable, from an economic and financial point of view, if used for programmed activity. And, for this to be possible, it is important to maintain the availability for the municipalities of the district of Évora, borders or with natural proximity to the municipality of Elvas. Elvas, the District of Portalegre and its populations have been successively penalized by health decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u331	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u332	I will now finish, Mr President. I leave an appeal to the majority to contribute clearly, unequivocally and decisively to make the basic emergency so necessary medical-surgical urgency and so that populations in this interior region can have freedom of choice within their own country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u333	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block bench welcomes the more than 11 000 petitioners and petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic with a very important petition on the health situation in its councils. We also welcome the many mayors of the municipality of Elvas and the neighbouring municipalities who have associated themselves with this petition. It is a detailed petition about the functioning of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, of Elvas, in which the discontent of the population is expressed due to the lack of use of the potential of this health unit. The lack of use of the resources already installed in this hospital and the fact that it is used as the backbone of Portalegre hospital is detrimental to the population of Elvas and the neighbouring municipalities, which are thus subject to increased travel and spending, when they could have the response to their health problems at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas. So the petitioners and the petitioners are right, which, in fact, have expressed themselves explicitly through such a large number of signatures. As they are right, the Left Block is associated with this cause and presents a draft resolution for the Government to strengthen the emergency service and allow users of the neighbouring municipalities to be treated in this hospital. It is in this sense — and with this end, Mr President — that we also call on the majority to deal with this situation, which is real and which is currently hurting the people, giving their vote in favour of the draft resolutions tabled today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u335	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 11 000 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition addressed to the Assembly of the Republic. I do so through the petitioners who are present today in the galleries and who originate from the municipalities of Elvas and Campo Maior, but also from Borba and the Alandroal. Therefore, this greeting to all the other petitioners of neighbouring councils, who supported and subscribed this petition demanding the resolution of problems. The problems identified in this petition are essentially two. On the one hand, there is the problem of care provided to patients, confirming the inadequacy of the response given in emergencies, which today is classified as SUB (basic emergency service) at the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas. On the other hand, there is a problem of access to health care, conditions that are guaranteed to users not only from the municipalities of the district of Portalegre, but also from the neighbouring municipalities of the district of Évora. These problems, ladies and gentlemen. Members have a common motive: a problem of organizing health services on the basis of economic and financial criteria and not on the basis of the needs of patients and users. Moreover, Mrs Sandra Cardoso's speech from the PS has already brought this issue to the attention. The dispute to which health services are obliged to resort in relation to users is irrational. It doesn't make sense that health services have to dispute users from their district or district next door to ensure the funding they need to operate. It makes sense that conditions of articulation between health services, both primary health care with hospitals and hospitals are created. in this specific case, the link between three hospitals is involved: the Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas, the Hospital de Portalegre and the hospital de Évora. It makes sense that this link between health services is guaranteed in a perspective to ensure users better conditions of access to the health service, depending on what is closer to them and is more comfortable for the movement of users, according to what puts fewer requirements from the point of view of the charges that are requested to the users, but also depending on the access to the health care they are entitled to, not being limited due to these administrative or economic and financial restrictions that are placed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u337	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u338	I conclude, Mr. President. The draft resolution that we are presenting is therefore essentially based on three solutions. First, it ensures that there is a reassessment of the urgency classification of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, Elvas, in order to ensure the adequacy between this classification and the needs identified by patients' access to the health service. Secondly, it guarantees the articulation among the various types of health services that are concerned, not only those that relate to the District of Portalegre, therefore the Local Health Unit of North Alentejano, but also those that relate to health centers, the Hospital do Espírito Santo, Évora, and the Hospital Dr. José Maria Grande, of Portalegre. Finally, it ensures that all this articulates and is organized according to the needs of the users and the response that health services have to ensure, not on the basis of economic and financial criteria that determine the impossibility of people having access to health services that prefer them or those whose access is easier or which limit the type of health care. in the fundamentals, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, this draft resolution points to the lines for solving this problem. If there is political will of the various parliamentary benches, it will certainly be possible, on Friday, to be able to provide a solution to the problems that these users, both those present today in the galleries and the others, are demanding. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u339	Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address a first word of greeting to petitioners as civic representatives of the concern of a population, and in particular to Mr. President of the City Council of Elvas. I also extend this greeting to all Elvens and Campamaiorans for understanding the genuine questions contained in this petition, which we will address. These issues are legitimate, but have been guarded by the parties of the majority and by the government. However, we cannot fail to say that the draft resolutions submitted by the opposition parties are opportunistic. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Let's go to the facts: the Hospital de Santa Luzia integrates the Local Health Unit of the North Alentejo, created in 2007 by the socialist government, through a decree-law signed by Correia de Campos and José Socrates — apart from that, I say that we agree with the model, but go on... In fact, this is not the first petition on the subject, Mrs Sandra Cardoso; petition No. 503 / X ( 3 ). ( a ), June 2008, was the first. And at the time, it made much more sense than the current one, because the doubts were far more relevant than those of today. First of all, because he was at the beginning of the process and alone was a source of mistrust. Later, the Ministry of Health was in full fury of closures and Elvas had the example of maternity. The pregnant women of the area of influence of the motherhood of Elvas were abandoned to their fate and encouraged to give birth in Badajoz, unlike creating conditions of follow-up to perform births in the hospital of Portalegre, as resulted from the policies followed by the current board of administration of the local unit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u341	What's worth is the PSD corrected all that, right? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u342	at that time, it would have made much more sense to present this petition and these draft resolutions. You didn't do it at the time, and you're doing it now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u343	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u344	It is symptomatic, because at the time the Socialist Party had two Members for that electoral circle. Mrs Sandra Cardoso, do you know who represented the Socialist Party at that time? It was not one of your deputies elected by the electoral circle of Portalegre ; it was Mr. Ricardo Gonçalves, elected by the electoral circle of Braga, who was to defend the position of the Socialist Party, as a government, in relation to this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u345	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u346	It is interesting to recall the intervention that Mr. Ricardo Gonçalves made in his own style at the time: « Even the closure of maternity and births in Portalegre, Évora and Badajoz benefited immense women in the region ». Mrs Sandra Cardoso, do you agree with what has been said by Mr Ricardo Gonçalves? Does it not seem to you that this situation has any similarity to what happened at that time? There is full confidence in the board of administration of the local health unit and the Ministry of Health, which has been solving the numerous problems encountered, including the problems that were inherited from socialist governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u347	What problems have been solved? The petitioners say nothing has been resolved!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u348	Mrs. Sandra Cardoso, they ordered delivery in Badajoz and, besides having no payment, they did not control the number of deliveries that were made, which is more serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u349	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u350	The coordination that exists at this time does not make the hospital in Elvas in a back-up hospital, because management is common and coordinated. Therefore, there is no such danger. The main questions that are put by the petition are overcome by reality and are of general knowledge. The hospital in Elvas is not negatively described in the context of the local unit and there is no change in the reference areas. Health care was extended to areas of ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology and psychiatry. The existence of the unit of intermediate care presupposes the existence of the unit of intensive care, under the penalty of questioning security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u351	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u352	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members of the PS and the PCP intend to do what they intend to do in relation to the patients of the neighbouring municipalities belonging to the district of Évora, since so far they have not been denied access to the services of the Hospital de Santa Luzia. They intend to integrate the patients of these municipalities into the area of influence of the Northern Alentejo Health Unit and remove them from the Central Alentejo Health Centers Group. Is that what you're trying to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u353	You will hear the petitioners, because they give you the answer to that question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u354	In conclusion, I would like to address the honourable Members in particular. Members of the Socialist Party. I would like to say — and I will say — that this fervent passion for the Hospital de Santa Luzia in Elvas is welcome, especially after Correia de Campos and Ana Jorge have taken him almost to the edge of death. Mr. President, I'm sorry I've exceeded my time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u355	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS joins in congratulating the subscribers of this petition, which have been more than a dozen thousand, including the Members. Autarchs that are present here, to whom the CDS also greets. It is very important for us, of course, that such a large group of citizens come together for a civic and democratic attitude, which is the presentation of this petition in Parliament. The CDS also joins—and it seems that this became clear and transparent—to all parliamentary groups and petitioners in the defense of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas. I believe, and I think I can say - that it is not just the Elvese and we here in Parliament - that we are united in the defense of this hospital. I believe that the government is also with us in this case. We know that—and the warning has already been made—this basic emergency classification of the Hospital of Santa Luzia, of Elvas, was made by the Socialist Party. Nevertheless, we have scrupulously respected the regulatory framework of this hospital. In addition, the urgency was endowed with more resources and the linkage of care was improved with the Hospital Dr. José Maria Grande, of Portalegre. contrary to what is often stated, this government never considered the Hospital de Santa Luzia as a back-up hospital. So much so that there has never been any change in its reference area, continuing the hospital not only to provide the same specialties as it already had, as the provision of services with the extension of care, as has already been mentioned here, in the areas of ophthalmology, otorhinolaryngology and psychiatry. But the defense of this hospital, we believe, did not remain here, since the implementation of outpatient care is planned. in this sense, improvements are already recommended—and in the future it is expected to be better, of course— with the support of local authorities and the Ministry of Health itself, to extend the provision of services without losing the current hospital hospitalization capacity. The Local Health Unit of the North Alentejo, in collaboration with the ARS of Alentejo, are currently developing a technical study that allows the distinction between the Hospital de Santa Luzia, giving it the opportunity to compete with other units within the framework of the Community directive on cross-border health care, thus ensuring the freedom that the Socialist Party has so emphasized. Well, like the ladies. Members also know, this will probably make the Spanish population even look for the services of Santa Luzia Hospital, because we are sure that it will ensure quality, proximity and safety in the provision of health care, especially in outpatient surgery, as I have already mentioned. For a few years now, the specialties of surgery, internal medicine and the day hospital have attracted the neighbouring populations of the municipalities of Borba, Vila Viçosa, Alandroal and Estremoz. And, as you will certainly recognize, no action has ever been taken to prevent these users from resorting to the services provided in this hospital, which is easily probable. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I was pleased and pleased with the union around the defense of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, de Elvas. The CDS has always defended this cause—including, it does so vehemently at the local level—because this hospital is essential not only for the Swiss but also for the neighbouring populations. And the CDS is calm to see that the options that have been taken by the government are all in the direction of this defense. We are, as we have always been and will be in the future, attentive to health care provided at the Hospital de Santa Luzia and we will do everything to ensure that, in Elvas, access to timely and quality health care is ensured to the population, always with quality and safety. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u357	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are discussing. I also greet the Defense Commission of the Hospital of Santa Luzia de Elvas, which has promoted and stimulated this same petition, and I still leave a special greeting to the author and subscribers of the petition that today are with us accompanying our work. in fact, in this petition, subscribers only claim the elemental, only require good sense in decisions and only want access to the right to health to be properly ensured. In fact, the populations of this region of Alentejo, in terms of access to health care, won nothing with the creation of the Local Health Unit of North Alentejo, on the contrary. And I say « well on the contrary», because the creation of this health unit was accompanied by the closure of several services and by the reduction of hours of many other health services. Now, the PSD says that it was the Socialist Party's government that created the problem, but Mr Crispo did not say everything, because if he said everything, he said: "The Socialist Party's government created the problem and the current government did not solve any of the problems, on the contrary it made them worse." And it made them worse because the users, after that, were still confronted with decisions of the board of directors of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, who came to further weaken access to health care. First, the board of directors of this hospital came to see the access of the Hospital de Elvas to the populations of the municipalities of Alandroal, Borba, Campo Maior, Estremoz, Monforte and Vila Viçosa. Later, it also compromised the conduct of telemedicine consultations for the municipalities of Alandroal, Borba, and Vila Viçosa, which was generating more than 20 % of the surgical activity of the Hospital de Santa Luzia. Therefore, Mr President, well you can say that the Socialist Party Government has created the problem, because the fact is that the current government has not only solved any of these problems as it has further aggravated them. Moreover, the use that the Government is making of the Hospital de Santa Luzia, as the backbone of the Hospital de Portalegre, in addition to causing an increase in the care costs of patients, who are thus being removed from their area of residence, is also forcing patients to bear more charges, from the point of view of the costs with the travels that the patients now have to bear and, perhaps, without any need. To conclude, I leave only two more notes. First of all, I would like to stress the justice of the plaintiffs' claims and objectives, which the Greens follow in their entirety. Secondly, I would like to say that the Greens will vote in favour of the legislative initiatives which are also under discussion today and, in our view, will respond to the petitioners' claims. in our perspective, they are legislative initiatives with every opportunity, because the problem exists and needs to be solved and that is why it can be solved. We will hope that the parties of the majority, who seem so concerned about this problem, will say their justice on Friday and vote in favour of the initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u359	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u360	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u361	Mr President, my appeal is to correct a moment ago because I have not welcomed the autarchs present here and I think that this special greeting to the autarchs who accompany their people in their righteous demands is more than deserved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u362	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, this concludes the discussion of this petition and of the draft resolutions, which will be voted on in the next parliamentary voting period. The Bureau also congratulates the petitioners who have followed this debate. Mrs. Members will then read the report of the vote that took place on Friday to the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u363	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the election of members of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences is as follows: « At 20 days of February two thousand and fifteen, the members of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences were elected. The result was as follows: Voters — 124 Votes 'yes' — 94 White votes — 24 No votes — 6 according to the applicable legal terms, and in view of the result obtained, they declare themselves elected to the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences, the following members: Actual: Antonio Manuel de Sousa Pereira Lucília Rosa Mateus Nunes Luís António Proença Duarte Madeira Daniel Torres Gonçalves José Tolentino Calaça de Mendonça André Gonçalo Dias Pereira Alternates: Carlos Manuel da Costa Gomes Ávaro José Barbosa Moreira da Silva Maria Augusta Neves da Cunha Areias Sobreinho Simões Ana Paula Mecheiro de Almeida Martins Silvestre Correia Heloísa Gonçalves dos Santos Tiago José Pires Duarte To record, the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Mr. Escutinador, Duarte Pacheco. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-02-25.u364	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: First point: joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.os 756 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of bankruptcy and executive sales of property by tax debt ( PS ) and 787 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates an exceptional process of suspension of penhoras and coercive sales of dwellings by tax debt ( BE ). Second point: joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 1258 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to protect the fishing sector for sardines and shark fishermen and shipowners ( CFP ), 1277 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to support, assess and protect the fishing sector for sardine ( BE) and 1274 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the sardine fisheries sector ( PS ). Third point: joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1243 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Stability and financing of the specialized artistic education network ( BE ), 1259 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the regularization of funding to be allocated to specialized artistic educational establishments and the promotion of measures to ensure the compensation of increased charges resulting from the delay in the transfer of funds and to prevent further delays in contracts to be carried out in subsequent school years ( PS ), 1256 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — National programme for the enhancement and expansion of the public network of specialized artistic education ( CFP ) and 1268 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Regularization of payments to specialized artistic schools ( The Greens ). Fourth point: assessment of petition No 420 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Presented by ATM — Association of Investors and Technical Analysts of the Capital Market, requesting that the Assembly of the Republic recommend to the Government, and other public entities with responsibilities on the capital market, which defends the small investors and shareholders of BES, and amend Decree-Law No 222/99 of 22 June establishing the Investor Compensation System. Fifth point: assessment of petition No 423 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by Nuno Miguel Gonçalves Ribeiro and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to annul the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills (PACC), in general with draft law No 788 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and capacity — PACC(BE) and with draft resolution No 1275 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the current application and the assumptions of the knowledge and capacity assessment test ( PACC ) ( PS ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 31 minutes.]]
