ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries. Before we begin our work, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the favor of reading the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 277 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — In defence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ), for which a power schedule is requested ; projects of lein.o 758 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills and ensures the cancellation of its effects ( PCP ) and 759 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Repeals the evidence of assessment of knowledge and capacities ( PACC) ( The Greens ) ; and draft resolution No 1231 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the extinction of the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and its reintegration into the Marine Organic (BE). For Decrees-Laws Nos 79 / 2014 of 14 May 2014 approving the legal system of professional qualification for teaching in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education ( PCP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 87 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 83 -A / 2014, of 23 May, which amends to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June, as amended by Decree-Law No 146 / 2013 of 22 October, and Act No 80 / 2013 of 28 November, establishing the new recruitment and mobility scheme for teaching staff in basic and secondary schools and specialized trainers and technicians ( PCP ) [ Parliamentary assessment No 88 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( CFP ), the Committee on Education, Science and Culture informs that the process should be considered to be obsolete, since all proposed amendments submitted by the CFP were rejected at the Commission meeting. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the first item on our agenda today is political declarations, whose inscriptions are already in order. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please take the seats to create conditions for the debate. The order of political statements is as follows : from the PCP, Mr António Filipe, the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins, the PSD, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, the PS, Mr Vieira da Silva, and the CDS-PP, Mrs Vera Rodrigues. To make the first political statement, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are now aware that the Prime Minister of Portugal does not like stories for children. This calls for the renegotiation of the debt, which he or she does not want to hear, and thus undermines the sovereign choice of the people of a country cradle of European civilization which has democratically expressed its will. to stories for children, the Prime Minister, Passos Coelho, prefers horror films, which are more similar to the situation experienced by the peoples subjected to austerity policies that so fanatically defend and impose and that against the most elemental good sense have condemned our country to unemployment, impoverishment and social backwardness.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u6	Whether the Prime Minister wants, or not to want the failure of austerity policies today is a given and the renegotiation of sovereign debts is a requirement that is inconsequentially on the agenda, not only in Greece, due to the requirement of its new government, but also in Portugal, due to popular and national demands. Revolved with the social tragedy imposed upon him by the troika and by the governments at his service, the Greek people translated his social revolt into political demands and last Sunday expressed in the vote a profound demand for change. He was not afraid, he did not yield to blackmail and dragged the defenders and executioners of the notorious austerity policies that so many sacrifices and humiliations have imposed on him in recent years. As it has been pointed out in due course by the CFP, the results of the Greek elections represent a defeat of the parties which, at the service of the great capital, have governed Greece and which, together with the European Union, are responsible for the economic and social disaster policy which has been imposed on the Greek people, resulting in a significant victory of Syriza and in the reduction of the joint percentage now obtained by the New Democracy and the Greek Socialist Party. The Communist Party of Greece has achieved electoral progress which will contribute to the continuation of the struggle to defend the interests of the workers and the Greek people. The Greek elections represent a defeat for those who, through unacceptable pressure, blackmail and interference within the European Union, have sought to condition the electoral expression of the deep discontent and will of political change of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u8	The election results express the rejection of the policy imposed by successive adjustment programmes agreed with the troika, intensification of workers' exploitation, destruction of labour and social rights, denial of the most basic and essential living conditions, economic decline and abdication of sovereignty, under the dictates of the European Union and the euro. The result of the Greek elections does not translate into a victory of radicals, that is to say, the defeat of radicals which imposed an unprecedented social catastrophe on their people in times of peace. We do not embark on waves of triumphalism and we well know that the fate of the political situation in Greece depends on the correspondence to the expectations of change that the Greeks expressed in the polls. Nor do we fall into the easy temptation to attempt to extrapolate the results of the elections in Greece to the reality of Portugal or any other country. Each country and every people has a history and lives a reality that is not confused with the others. But there are, from the Greek elections, a set of illusions that benefit everyone and that cannot but be withdrawn. From now on, the demand for the renegotiation of sovereign debts now gains a qualitatively new political weight, which cannot be ignored. The crisis of sovereign debts does not result from the attitude of peoples who are reluctant to fulfil their obligations or from spending practices of peoples who have lived above their possibilities. The crisis affecting countries such as Greece and Portugal results from the dominance these countries are subjected to as a result of integration into economic and monetary union whose rules, dictated by the dominant powers of the European Union, condemn the economically weaker countries to stagnation, underdevelopment and poverty and almost colonial submission to the most powerful economic countries in the euro area. The crisis of sovereign debt does not result from luxury or superfluous expenditure for the benefit of the peoples of the countries in debt. It is the political option of governments to convert private debt by bankers and speculators into public debt to support those who live in their work. It follows from the political option of governments to conclude ruinous contracts at the expense of the State and taxpayers to benefit economic groups, in public-private partnerships, in swaps, in the sale of public goods or in the privatization of social functions of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u10	Renegotiating debt is an undeniable requirement; persisting in its denial is insisting on the policy that has led Portugal to the dramatic situation in which it is located. by reacting to the results of the elections in Greece, the Prime Minister, Passos Coelho, demonstrated his contempt for popular will. Steps Coelho reacted to the elections in Greece in the same way as a sober response in Portugal to any criticism that undermines its obstinacy to lead the country to the abyss. What concerns the Prime Minister is that the Greek elections are the anticipation of his own defeat. The discourse of the end of the crisis with which the PSD and the CDS try to charm themselves into thinking about the forthcoming elections and the idea that Portugal, having followed the disastrous measures that it agreed to with the troika, has won the confidence of the markets do not resist the confrontation with reality. The reality is that the country is more unjust and the Portuguese who have been severely whipped by government policy are aware of this. The Greeks have defeated austerity in the polls and the Portuguese will have the opportunity to do so soon. They have not yet done so because there is a majority and a government who desperately cling to power and a President who stubbornly refuses to give the Portuguese word back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u12	They will be able to postpone defeat for more than a few months, but they will not be able to prevent the Portuguese from continuing the fight against right-wing policies and to build a political alternative based on defending the real interests of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u13	Mr António Filipe, you have written to ask questions. Deputies Miguel Santos, from PSD, Nuno Magalhães, from CDS-PP, Vitalino Canas, from PS, José Luís Ferreira, from Os Verdes, and Cecilia Honorio, from the Block of Left. As Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD wishes to answer one by one, he has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u14	Mrs. President. Mr António Filipe, I would like to begin by saying, before this House, that the wish we have is that things run well in Greece and run well for the Greeks; otherwise, we will have an even more suffering people, certainly, and we will have transformed the electoral result in Greece last Sunday into what may well be a true Greek tragedy. Having said that, Mr President, what I would like to note is this, perhaps incomprehensible, effort by opposition parties to try to overcome the Syriza victory in Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u15	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u16	I say incomprehensible, Mr, and I will explain my point of view to you. The Portuguese Communist Party has its counterpart in Greece, the Greek Communist Party — in fact, with an ideology still very orthodox, like yours, and yet without really solving the ideological problem resulting from the fall of the Soviet bloc, such as the Portuguese Communist Party — which resulted in several refractory, « deserters», of your orthodoxy of the post-Soviet fall, and which constituted other parties and other movements, in particular the gentlemen who sit on your left and the Syriza to whom you now want to hang. Then we have the Left Block trying to catch up with the victory of Syriza in Greece, of course because they want to derive some sort of electoral profit. In fact, the Left Block presented the great electoral triumph of Syrisa, who was Mrs. Deputy, one of the six leaders of the Left Block, who caught a plane to go to Athens... I had the opportunity to see her, in a photograph, holding a letter of support for Syriza. Perhaps it would have been Mr Tsipras' last electoral triumph,... [[Protests from BE's deputy Helena Pinto, beating hands at the top of the bench.]] ...but that, eventually, was not enough to reach the greedy majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u17	Talk about politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u18	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u19	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u20	But worse than that, we have the Socialist Party who saw its Greek socialist counterpart, Pasok, to have a loud defeat, but who by the voice of his Secretary-General also tried to succeed in the victory of Syriza. Badly better people in the Socialist Party, particularly Dr. António Vitorino, have already said that he sees with great difficulty the fulfilment of the Syriza electoral promises. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u21	Mr. Miguel Santos...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u22	I shall conclude, Madam President, with some difficulty, as you understand, because there are several Members here who feel rather uncomfortable. I don't know why, I'm just expressing my opinion...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u23	I'll take your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. What is now in Greece is very simple: the Greeks have been placed before a proposal that translates into the easier way. It was presented to them that is the easiest way for a people who are whipped by a reduction in wages, by an increase in taxes and, before the easier way, the Greeks found it quite attractive. The question is as follows: how, in what way, will the Greek Government solve the EUR 4 billion funding, which it needs in February and March, how will it not fail the expectations it has created in the Greek people and how will it do this without structurally compromising the future of the country, whose structural situation is very different from the situation in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u26	Sir, I've already told you the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u27	I will finish, Madam President. They have had a 7% recession and we are growing 1%; they have a 25% unemployment and we are just over 13%, we have unemployment falling and we are creating jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u28	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u29	Madam President, I'm sorry, but at some point I've lost a bit of the thread to the ass...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u30	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u31	That had been understood a while ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u32	...because of all this disturbance, but then I could recover and, if I had a few more minutes, I would recover even more. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the big question: the million dollar question to Greece, how will they now fulfill the election promises and what is the five-minute solution that the Greek Government will find and that the rest of the world has not found. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u33	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u34	Mr President, Mr. Miguel Santos, the honourable Member was visibly disoriented, so he lost his thread to the meat.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u35	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u36	And, in fact, I must say that, from his point of view, it is no less, because indeed, the austerity policies that have been put into practice in Greece on behalf of the same principles and according to very similar recipes as those that the PSD has imposed in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u38	But it worked!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u39	... were clearly defeated by the Greek people. Therefore, Mr President, your disorientation has been visible. The honourable Member made a vote that I share, which was to expect things to go well. I also hope that, because you have done very badly so far, i.e. with the revenue you are defending, you have run badly and have led Greece to the social catastrophe that you mentioned here. So let's hope that things, from now on in Greece, can go well. With regard to everything else that you have said, in fact, you have no point where you are caught and there is no answer I can give you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u40	The next question is CDS-PP. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u41	Madam President, Mr António Filipe, I wanted to begin by congratulating you, not so much for the intervention, not for the victory of Syrisa, until you put it on bad sheets with your KKE comrades,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ... but because you do years today and therefore I wish you the greatest happiness. Mr António Filipe, I would like to tell you very clearly that the CDS respects the democratic choice made by the Greek people and, in our view, it is now up to the Greek Government, because the Greek elections were the same, Greek and Greek, to say how it wants to remain in the euro, without complying with the rules of the euro. We will be here when the Greek Government makes its proposals in this area, as in others, for example, that of emigration policy, to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the goodness and viability, or lack of it, of the Greek Government's proposals. But, Mr President, more than one question, I would like to ask you to comment on a non-national issue, and we respect Greek national policy, but it is in a way global. Today, the Greek Government took possession of 10 ministers, I say, 10 ministers and no woman. Mr President, if this happens within the Portuguese Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u42	Whoa, whoa!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u43	... probably, the Portuguese Communist Party and other parties in this House said it was a masquerading, sectarian, discriminatory attitude. And, Mr President, I confess that if I had done so and if I were the Portuguese Government, it would be difficult not to stop giving him reason. But, Mr President, to see also the measure of the conviction of the Portuguese Communist Party, I sincerely would like to make a comment on this: 10 ministers, 10 men and 0 women. Is this the change, the winds of change that you have announced in the rostrum? I do not honestly believe that in a global perspective it will have been in the best sense in this case. But, Mr, and I want to be very quick to respect the time available, there is one thing that I want to say to you: it is not worth it, however much that interest in favour, to confuse the situation of Portugal with that of Greece. The Greeks are the Greeks, which we respect and esteem now nothing strictly has anything to do with Portugal. Four examples, Mr. It should be noted that, at the moment — and I think that this is, in fact, the first duty of each of us, who are in the Portuguese Parliament, in Lisbon — the interest of public debt, at 10 years, in Portugal, is 2, 5 %, that of Greece is 10, 5 %. This has nothing to do with it, Mr President, and it is necessary to distinguish. Greece currently has the troika in Athens. We, because there was a government that was not in the'seria corners' of a certain left, about more time and more money, we do not have the troika in Lisbon, we have completely restored sovereignty and the Portuguese people again own their destiny. It's not the same, sir! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Portugal has come out of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme and without a cautious programme in a clean way; Greece, at best, is now discussing what a precautionary programme means. Portugal is not Greece, which we esteem and respect, Portugal has fulfilled its commitment. for the effort and merit of the Portuguese, we were able to fulfill a difficult program, go out in the right time and only with one program. There have been four very simple examples that I would like you to mention and highlight. It is, Mr President, that I can even see the internationalist vision of the CFP, but, between the party interest and the national interest, we can have no doubt in defending the national interest. And the national interest, because this is the truth and it is fair to say that the situation in Portugal is not the same as the situation in Greece. There is no one in Europe who does not say that unless, of course, some Portuguese parties are unfortunately. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u44	Mr Nuno Magalhães benefited from a distraction from the Bureau. Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u45	Madam President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I thank you for your congratulations and then turn to political hostilities. The honourable Member began by saying that he respected the choice of the Greek people. I note this, but I also note that throughout the whole electoral process the blackmails and interferences have been added to the Greek people, coming from many European leaders. We all remember Mr. Mariano Rajoy's visit to Athens, to participate in the Congress of New Democracy ; we all remember several statements made from Germany, with all kinds of blackmails and threats concerning the Greek people, if he did not suffer in the polls the austerity policy that has been imposed upon him. It is therefore good that you now say that you respect, because that was not the tone of the main leaders of countries of the European Union throughout the electoral process, where they sought to commit all the interferences. Well, you asked me a question about the absence of women ministers in Greece, but, as you understand, Mr. Member, I do not respond by the Syriza government,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u46	... Mr. Alexis Tsipras is not from our bench. But, Mr President, I always tell you that I hope that the men who are part of the Greek Government will be better for Europe than Mrs Merkel in Germany. [[PCP applause.]] I hope they are! It is that there may be good men and women rulers, but there are men and women who are bad rulers. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u47	That's bluff! Good and bad...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u48	Sir, let's go to the national situation. The honourable Member has sought to clarify clearly the Portuguese situation of the Greek situation. We do not make excessive parallels between any country, as I said recently in my political statement, but we look at the Portuguese reality and the pre-election speech that the majority is making in relation to the Portuguese situation is denied every day by reality. Mr President, they are denied by the reality in hospital emergencies, the lack of health care, the hundreds of thousands of unemployed people who have no support, unemployment disguised with employment-inclusion contracts. The national reality does not resist this pre-electional triumphal speech, which hides the real problems the Portuguese are facing. But what afflicts them, sirs. Members, is that the Portuguese are aware of this and we are fully convinced that the Portuguese people will also be able to give a reply, at the right time, to those who have carried out a policy of austerity in everything similar to the recipes that have been imposed in Greece,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u49	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u50	... with the results which are known and which also deserve the enormous repudiation of the Greek people. The Portuguese people will also have the opportunity to speak at the right time about how the country has been ruled. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u51	The next question is PS. Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u52	Madam President, Mr António Filipe, I begin with a cordial note, I hope that my question is also cordial, to wish you congratulations on your birthday. Mr President, the Democrats, in general, like winners, respect the winners, because the winners are an expression of the will of the people. And in Greece this is how we congratulate Syriza, the winner of these elections in Greece. But don't confuse things! The fact that we appreciate and respect the winners does not mean that we confuse what we stand for and that we do not know what our partners are. in Greece, our partners are not Syriza, are others, is another party, Mr. Miguel Santos,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u53	...and it's not because this other party has had a bad result, it has not been able to lead a change project that we cease to be comrades of this party and address our greetings from here. in Greece, the project of change that won was that of Syriza. It is another demonstration that in Europe it is intended to change. It is not the first demonstration, contrary to what some have wanted to make, there have already been others in France, there have already been others in Italy, there is already one, very concrete, with the amendments which the European Commission has made in its direction. There are other indications of willingness to change in Europe, and this is one more we respect. Changes can be good or bad. It would be a bad change, for example, if Mrs. Marine Le Pen had won in France. And, by the way, there is some complicity between Mr. Marine Le Pen and the winners in Greece. Let's hope that complicity is only apparent.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u54	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u55	It would be a bad change if you had won the project of those who associated with Syriza in Greece. But let us hope that it will be a good change, whether the Greek people want it to be printed, which goes in the right direction, and hope that this change will be joined by all that is already being done in Europe. The first signs that come from Greece are those that create us expectation, are signs of pragmatism, of moderation. Let us hope that Europe will be able to respond to these signs, also with pragmatism and restraint, in order to match the will of the Greek people, and that a balance can be achieved between those which are the claims of the Greek people and those which are the claims that come from Europe. But Mr António Filipe, with regard to the Communist Party and its positions, Syriza in Greece has evolved. Syriza makes it clear today that Greece must remain in the euro area and, he says, will fight for it. What I would like to ask you, Mr President, has to do with the position of the CFP, which has been ambiguous. The CFP has not clearly defended Portugal's stay in the euro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u56	Oh, no? Oh, my God! Our position is very clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u57	What I would like to ask you, Mr President, is whether now, with this development of Syriza, the CFP will also print an evolution in its policies and will no longer be ambiguous about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u58	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u59	Madam President, Mr Vitalino Canas, I would also like to thank you warmly for your congratulations. Mr President, when a member of the Socialist Party refers to the CFP and considers that we have an ambiguous position, that even gives me the will to laugh, coming from where it comes from. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Mr. Deputies said, and I welcome him, because it is factual, that the Socialist Party's homologous party, if I am allowed the expression, the Pan-Helenic Socialist Party, the Pasok, was part of the government coalition that was defeated and, in Greece, was on the side of austerity. from then that you have even noticed some difference between the speech that Mr. Deputy made here and the speech that the Socialist Party leader made about the Greek elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u60	It's true! Well stressed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u61	... in which it seemed very positive to welcome the prospect of open change or, at least, promised by Syriza. I checked that in Dr. António Costa's speech, it even seemed that the PS did not know Pasok anywhere, but, finally, we have already checked and assumed here that, in fact, the Greek Socialist Party was one of the parties that, having ruled Greece in recent years, has led him to the situation to which he arrived and that he had the electoral results that are known. Now, when you point out that you expect Greece to be led on the right path, I do not know what the right path is for the Socialist Party. Is this the way this far along Pasok or is it the path promised by Syrisa? Oh, my God! We do not understand, and that is why I also do not understand that you can refer to the CFP as a party with ambiguous positions on this matter. It was also important to know from the Socialist Party's point of view what attitude Europe should have towards the demand made by Syriza to negotiate debt. On this point, the Socialist Party does not, in fact, take a very ambiguous position on this issue in Portugal and, on the Greek issue, it has not spoken either. Mr, on the issue of the euro, I must say that I did not run away from it. We believe it is extremely difficult that in any country in the European Union, but particularly in countries in southern Europe — such as Portugal and Greece — there can be a policy of economic growth, which is turning the page on austerity policies decisively, if the criteria which have presided over the architecture of the euro have remained unchanged, in particular the budgetary treaty. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u62	It is an extremely complex issue. If you ask me how it is possible to reconcile what Syriza has promised the Greeks and respect for all the rules of the budget treaty, we recognise, Mr President, that it is extremely complex and therefore we follow with interest the evolution of the political and economic situation in Greece in the coming years and also the attitude that the institutions of the European Union have towards those which are the just aspirations of the Greek people and which Syriza has, in fact, promised in the polls, to fight for them in the European Union. We continue with great interest and hope that, in fact, on the part of the Socialist Party, there will be a very serious reflection on the economic and social disaster to which the policies of the Greek Socialist Party led that country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u63	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has extended the system of questions and answers too much to maintain some fairness. We will not repeat this generosity in the debates. The next question is from The Greens. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u64	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I would like to congratulate you on your birthday, but also, above all, on bringing to discussion a day that shows us that, in fact, there is more world beyond austerity and that there is more world beyond the custom. Indeed, last Sunday the Greek people expressed very clearly their rejection of austerity policies that have pushed thousands of Greeks into unemployment and poverty. These policies are practised, as it is known, by the parties that have ruled Greece in recent years, whether New Democracy, or Pasok, and that they have also been promoted, conditioned or even imposed by the European Union and the IMF, always so friendly to the people. But the Greek election result also translated the refusal of a people to surrender to the fear and blackmail of the European Union expressed by its hard core, particularly Germany and Angela Merkel. Finally, this result is still the affirmation of the sovereign will of a people regarding the choice of their own ways, without interference and without external pressures. The Greeks did not intimidate themselves, the Greeks did not reach out for the external threats and chose their way. What we believe is that this election result can be the first stone, in raising the hope of the peoples of the European Union, subject to right-wing policies — such as Portugal — that promote austerity, destroy social systems, destroy the economies of countries and national productive systems and, above all, undermine the will of the policies of the peoples. With this result and this turn in Greece, it seems to us that more than ever the time has come for our country to demand the renegotiation of debt, as a way to put the country to produce, create jobs, return rights to citizens who "fly" in the name of austerity — and create the conditions for, in fact, payment of debt, because it becomes more and more evident that this way is purely and simply unfeasible. Say what they say, you don't have to be Nobel in Economics to realize that no one pays debts without production. No one can pay debts without producing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u66	Mr António Filipe, it does not seem to you that, in view of this result in Greece which has severely punished those responsible for the road and, above all, because of the result that Greece has arrived, a true social tragedy, a socio-economic disaster—and I must say to the PSD that he is afraid that the outcome of Sunday will turn into a tragedy, but tragedy has the Greeks today and they are trying to solve it — within the European Union — that the renegotiation of Portuguese debt can gain new breath, can gain a new mood?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u68	Mr António Filipe has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u69	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I thank you for your question and I am going to reply. Firstly, I would like to point out that the illusion that it is possible to withdraw from the Greek elections is that there are no inevitability. In fact, in a party system with an alternance in power and a maintenance in the power of the Pan-Helenic Socialist Party and the New Democracy Party, which seemed eternal, the Greeks expressed their desire to withdraw from power. This is an illusion that must be taken: it is in the will of the people to decide about their destiny—and that is valid for Greece and valid for any other country. The honourable Member referred to the issue of debt and the need for its renegotiation. It seems to us that in Portugal this issue is unquestionable. It is clearly not possible for the country to be able to grow economically, so that there can be a reasonable level of meeting social needs and that it must bear interest on debt of more than EUR 7 billion per year. It's not, at all, possible! When renegotiating the debt is claimed, it is not a matter of not wanting to pay the debt or of not wanting to make commitments. It is of interest that all those who have been responsible for the situation reached in the euro area and who have arrived in countries such as Portugal and who have been responsible for policies imposed on our country — and accepted by the parties which have ruled in Portugal — assume their share of responsibility. There has been a situation, which is also discussed not only in Europe, but also in other countries where issues of sovereign indebtedness also arise, in which it is necessary to find an assumption of responsibilities for those who have also led to the indebtedness of these countries, in order to assume their share of responsibility. The renegotiation of debt is a manifestation of intention of those who want to pay and of those who claim, fair and reasonable, the creation of conditions to be able to pay and not have to subject their peoples to humiliating and indignant situations of underdevelopment and lack of the most basic goods necessary for a dignified life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u71	The question with which we must confront the institutions and all the European countries is that of knowing what Europe they want. Do you want a Europe divided between rich Europe, which lives at the expense of the exploitation of peripheral countries, and a poor Europe or want a Europe of economic and social cohesion and cooperation between the various peoples? Here debt renegotiation is an essential issue that needs a European response at the level of international institutions, but for this there must be a very firm, serious and responsible requirement on the part of countries which are victims of over-indebted situations, as is the case with Portugal. We therefore believe that the question in Portugal must not fail to be put, and we also believe that the position of the new Greek Government is a very positive step forward so that this idea of renegotiating the debt of the countries of the European Union can also be placed on the agenda of the European institutions. [[PCP applause.]] The next question is the Left Block. Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u72	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, first of all I welcome you for all the good reasons today, and particularly for your political statement. We know that Portugal is not Greece, but we cannot ignore that Europe changed last Sunday, that the Greek people had the courage to face the German directory, that it had the courage to say « enough austerity, we can no longer endure », and that it had the courage, with the political choice it made, to enter the restructuring of debt on the political agenda of Europe. Europe changed last Sunday. Mr António Filipe, in view of the recognition of this change, does the reaction of the Portuguese Government, in particular the words of the Prime Minister? The reaction that we could perhaps classify as a child if it itself was not from the most radical statements given to the well-known statements by the various Heads of State of Europe regarding the victory of Syriza. Mr Prime Minister said that renegotiating debt is a « child tale thing ». We would say that Mr. Prime Minister was more German than Mrs. Merkel in these statements and we would be tempted to ask whether this government's obsession with austerity policies, whether this government's obsession with paying a debt that is not payable and that is today close to 130 %, if the account for children applicable on the basis of this statement would be Ali Baba and the forty thieves. Is this the account for children applicable to this government obsession in paying a debt, which is not payable and in denying the importance of this historical victory and this change, which the Greek people demand? I agree with your appreciation that, with this great change, hope is given to Europe and I also recognize that the Portuguese people have the necessary conditions to understand that the alternative is possible and that it will make the evaluation, which well deserves, against fatality, against fear, against this logic that there is no alternative, which is the one that this majority has imposed on the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Madam President: Mr António Filipe has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u73	Madam President, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, I would like to thank you for your greetings and to say that the reading we make of the results of the Greek elections is that the Greek people were able to translate the social revolt that you felt in a political demand for change, into a political requirement of progressive sense. It will be with great expectation and with great interest that we will all follow the developments in Greece and the repercussions that the new Greek Government's position may have on the European Union and on European institutions. In fact, the fight against these austerity policies imposed in the European Union gains strength from the results of the elections in Greece. The honourable Member referred to the position of the Portuguese Prime Minister and said, well, that it was more radical from the point of view of the defence of austerity than that of Mrs Merkel herself. That is an indisputable fact. The Prime Minister has even taken a arrogant attitude towards the sovereign will democratically expressed by the Greek people, which we believe is indeed unacceptable. Mr. Prime Minister used to say that Portugal, following the risk of indications and taxes of the troika, gained market confidence. We would like to know if the rulers are more concerned about having market confidence or the confidence of their people, because what is happening in Portugal, and what has happened in Greece until very recently, is that to have market confidence governments have not hesitated to sacrifice their people and condemn them to poverty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u74	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u75	...as if the markets were not a human creation, as if they were the markets that created man and not man who created the markets. The economy exists for people, so that people can have living conditions. There is no place to satisfy markets as if they were gods, hiding that behind these markets are the interests of the most powerful, those who want to enrich at the expense of exploitation of peoples and workers. So having market confidence or having people's confidence is a matter on the agenda regarding the situation with which Portugal and the European countries are confronted. for our part, we have no doubt that what is important is to govern and take appropriate measures so that people can live decently, so that people are respected in their dignity, and that the rights of citizens, workers are not sacrificed at the altar of market indebtedness, which only serves to hide the unconfessable interests of the most powerful. [[PCP applause.]] The President-in-Office of the Council: - The first political declaration is concluded here. We move on to the next political statement, which will be to the Left Block. To this end, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The result of the Greek elections was not only the triumph of hope, as announced by the Syriza slogan, but a signal for the whole of Europe. Austerity as the official dogma of the European Union has failed — it has failed in the resolution of the crisis; it has failed in the protection of the most precise; it has failed in the promotion of employment and in the defense of the economy; it has failed people all over the world. It did not solve any of the problems it proposed as it worsened them, generating the humanitarian crisis that is now living in Greece. Between fear of blackmail of European institutions and hope, the Greeks decided. for the first time a government was elected that, far from the rotativism that condemned the country, did campaign promising to break with the garrison of austerity and with the inevitability imposed by Berlin and Brussels, as if they were State religion. The sign given by millions of Greeks on Sunday summons us all from Berlin to Madrid, from Helsinki to Rome or Portugal, to the limits of austerity as the official dogma of the European Union. The result of Syriza — the Portuguese Prime Minister does not know, but the party that won the elections in Greece has the name: Syriza — also puts the issue of debt at the heart of the European political agenda. But before the debate itself, the unusual and diplomaticly insulting form as the Prime Minister has commented on the election results of a country of the European Union cannot be made clear. We understand that the last thing that Passos Coelho promised in campaign not to raise taxes and guaranteed to be a lie that he wanted to go down wages and cut holiday subsidies - I repeat, the last thing that Passos Coelho can say is that voters in any country believed in a children's story.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u78	We understand, however, that the Portuguese Government's discomfort in front of those who, one day after taking possession, have already fulfilled more electoral promises than the PSD and CDS in almost four years. [[Congratulations from BE.]] « Children's account » has been the doctrine followed by the European institutions and the IMF to resolve the crisis in order to use the term "Coelho Steps". As the new Greek Minister of Finance says, injecting the biggest loan of history into a country tied as a counterpart to a plan that has caused it to lose 25% of its wealth is real budgetary torture. Before the troika intervention, Greece owed 107 % of GDP, six years and one debt pardon after 180 %; one in four Greeks is unemployed; one in five Greeks lives in extreme poverty; the infant mortality rate rose 43 %; 300 000 Greeks do not have — or better — light at home. To insist, against everything and against all, on the advance of the austerity that Greece is throwing, as it is to throw Portugal, into the abyss and the periphery of the euro for impoverishment calls into question democracy and Europe. They tell us that Greece has applied for international aid and that now it will have to continue to honor what it has signed. But, and because of the terrible failure of the troika program, no one assumes responsibility? The commitments must be respected, of course, but when it is clear that they are destroying the economy and making it impossible to comply, the moral obligation of any government is to do everything to renegotiate them. It is this courage for the necessary confrontation, with the conviction that Germany does not give up until it gives up, which came out of the Sunday elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u80	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the initial blackmail of Brussels, the IMF and Berlin, the voices in Europe begin to change. The Irish Government is receptive to an international debt conference, as the Syriza proposes, and it is not the only one who begins to give timid signals that what is urgent is really needed. The Greek elections therefore marked a turning point in Europe. A government not in line with the 'austerity' doctrine won the elections. This is the moment of change that European governments will have to understand. Today there are two fields in Europe: those who want to continue austerity or discuss the forms and dosage of austerity and those who want to restructure debts to free up resources, to promote employment and economic growth. Following the outcome of Sunday and the ECB's latest programme, the debate on the end of austerity and the renegotiation of debt was at the heart of European policy. The ECB's late response is true to protect the stability of current interest rates, but does not respond to the burden of accumulated debt and which is unpaid in countries such as Portugal or Greece. The ECB can respond to interest stability, but only budgetary incentives and the recovery of wages can revive the economy, launch investment and thus create jobs. We are therefore approaching the height of the decisions. The Portuguese Government has to choose whether it continues to defend the interests of finance or whether it joins those who in Europe place the future of the economy and the interests of citizens above financial orthodoxy. The question, therefore, is simple: will the Portuguese Government continue to act as a commercial delegate in Berlin or will it take advantage of the signs of change to defend the Portuguese citizens who have been mustigated for years of austerity, unemployment and emigration? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Europe must take advantage of the opportunity opened up by the Syriza victory and put an end to austerity, which is responsible for making even worse the inequality between European countries and for increasing wage disparity, which already places half of the wealth in the hands of 1% of the population. Taking advantage of the page turn started in Athens must be the minimum commitment of all progressive forces that are not seen, that cannot be seen in the blindness of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u82	Not taking advantage of this moment is not only a betrayal of the spirit of solidarity which should guide any union, it is not to realize that, after this moment, what will be at stake will not only be the economy but also the future of democracy in Europe. Greece is making its way out of the crisis. It is now necessary for Portugal to have the courage to do its own. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u83	To ask questions, the honourable Members signed up. Deputies António Rodrigues, of the PSD, João Oliveira, of the PCP, and Vitalino Canas, of the PS, having Mrs Catarina Martins informed the Bureau that she intends to answer individually. Mr António Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u84	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her speech. We had no doubt that today, as has happened in recent days, the Left Block would make a statement of victory. But the only statement of victory that the Left Block can make in Portugal is that of victories abroad and others, it can never hide its inability to be right and have a positive word in this country. Hearing her speak as a representative of the interests of Syriza in Portugal —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u85	Before Syriza than Merkel!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u86	... or perhaps not, because from Sunday we heard many other voices trying to complain about the legitimacy of being able to speak on behalf of a party that the Block on the Left itself says it is your brother's party — they raised me not one, but very varied questions to which I would like to have answered. It is because it is easy to talk romantically and ideally about what is happening in other states. Obviously, we are pleased that democracy has worked in Greece and, regardless of everything else, let us be clear, the Greek people have chosen what they want to choose and no one outside the Greek territory has to be pronounced on this; they have chosen freely and therefore are delighted with the outcome of the elections. He is so delighted, and we are so gullible, that I would like to ask him the following: what will the Left Block say if Syriza does not effectively fulfill the promises he has made? Because they don't have enough words, you have to rule! No one governs by decree, no one determines in a council of ministers "we have changed! » and, after all, the change happened. It's important to realize. We have taken time and demonstrated that it is possible to grow, create jobs, be different and improve the condition of a people. Syriza only, and only, has one day... Madam Member, as a woman, I would like to hear your opinion on something already mentioned today: what is the position of the Left Block, being so champion of the role of women, in view of the fact that women do not have a definite, definitive and decisive position within the Greek Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u87	We've explained it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u88	I also ask you, because it is also important for us to know, how is it that an ideology of extreme left will be reconciled as the one that Syriza defends with the ideology of its coalition partner, which is of extreme right. And how to reconcile the position of Syriza in relation to Russia? Already today the Greek Government has pronounced itself with regard to Russia contrary to a general position of the European Union. What does that mean? Are you with Russia? Are you with Ukraine? Are you with solidarity? Are you with the government? Or is it with reality?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u89	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u90	There is also another question to which I would like to hear your answer: if the spirit of debt restructuring which the Greek Government defends goes through debt forgiveness, how will it explain to the Portuguese that the EUR 1000 million we have there — €550 per Portuguese — will be delivered? If we lose that money, explain to me what you're going to say to the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u91	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u92	Madam President, Mr António Rodrigues, I thank you for your question. Syriza's victory really changes a lot! ... To see a member of a party who four years ago is spokesperson of Angela Merkel upset because there is a party that is associated with a party from another country does not cease to have his joke! Open... Let me remind you that in 2009 when Syriza had 4 % of the votes, the Left Block was also in Athens, Greece, campaigning with him. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u93	What counts here, which is decisive, is the conviction and determination about politics to get out of the crisis. It is this conviction, this determination, in fact, that explains the coalition that Syriza had to do in Greece, because, as you know, he did not win with an absolute majority and the Greek Communist Party refused to enter the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u94	Now! You see? Syrisa is not trustworthy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u95	This coalition is based on essential principles: how do people respond? How are you gonna get out of the crisis? It is therefore grounded in this conviction that it is necessary to have the courage to confront the finance to break with austerity, and that is the capacity to compromise. Perhaps that is why it bothers the PSD — who in four years cut wages that he said he would not cut, who increased taxes that he said he would not increase, who did everything contrary to what he promised to do — that in two days of the government, Syriza raised the national minimum wage, stopped privatising ports or energy or ensured access to electricity to the poorest families. It may confuse them, but it is even possible in politics to overcome the alternance, go to the alternative and the word — the word! — have some meaning. Mr President, I do not want to fail to reply, because I have not escaped from this matter, to the question of the presence of women as ministers in the Greek government. If I wonder if I think a government should have men and women because society is made up of men and women, I say yes, of course, until it has absolute parity. But that is what divides us, and that is why the Block voted in favour of quotas here when its party voted against. However, if I wondered if I was going to support a government with policies that have the PSD and the CDS if it had absolute parity, I would also say no, Mr, because breaking with austerity needs a clear option and it does not just pass through parity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u96	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u97	In conclusion, I note that the honourable Member has fled to the essentials. Today, the question to ask is this: is austerity the solution or is there another? You promised and failed to fulfill, promised to solve the crisis and sank the country further. Ask a person with 16, 24, 35 years old today when he looks at Portugal, as he sees the future in his country, if he thinks he can live here dignifiedly or if he sees that the country is getting more and more buried.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u98	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u99	If you know how to answer this question, you will also know that in Portugal, as in Greece, we need change.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u100	Would you like to conclude, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u101	I'm done now, Madam President. It is about knowing which side your party will be on: with the Greek Government, fighting against financial interests so that it is possible to create jobs and have a future in Europe, or whether it will continue, as it has so far, to do everything that Angela Merkel sends. That is the question to which the PSD does not answer and which I would like to see answered. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to respect regiment times. Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u103	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I would like to begin by welcoming her for the political statement she has just made. I would like to ask you very specific questions about the matter which you have brought here, which has also been addressed by the CFP in the previous political declaration, with very clear ideas about the awareness that we have of the real situation in which we are. I am not going to do, as has already been done in this debate today, a discussion around the shirts that each one of them wears. We want to discuss political options and ideas, because that is how the political struggle is done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u105	I would like to begin by saying that we are aware of the real situation in Greece and throughout Europe; we are aware of the difficulties that have been imposed on the Greek people and all the peoples of Europe in general; we are aware of the struggle these peoples have fought against these policies, which have led to the impoverishment and situations of true social and economic disaster in European countries; we are aware of the blackmails, interferences, pressures that have been made by the spokesmen of the great economic and financial interests of the European Union so that nothing will change, so that everything will remain in it; we are also aware of the prospect of change that is behind not only the struggles that have been waged by the Greek, Portuguese and Spanish peoples and by so many peoples of the European space, but also, obviously, of the change that are behind the electoral outcome in Greece. We are also aware of the importance of correspondence to these expectations that have been created and that have been translated by the Greek people into the election result last Sunday. Mrs Catarina Martins, we have the view that the solution to the very serious problems facing the generality of the peoples and the countries of the European Union today requires ruptures with the policies and guidelines of the European Union, which seek to deepen this process of European capitalist integration with the full role of inequalities, of increasing exploitation, impoverishment, of social retrogression that imposes on the lives of the peoples of Europe, but also calls for rupture with the mechanisms created to impose these same policies and to impose these same guidelines in the European Union. In summary, which will obviously be very synthetic about everything that we could list, it is necessary to break with the budgetary Treaty's impositions, with the European Semester's impositions, with the impositions of the so-called structural reforms which are behind the recently announced measures by the ECB on the purchase of debt, which mean no more than the deepening of all these structural reforms which have been made, which have led to the dismantling of labour rights and the dismantling of the social rights of peoples in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u106	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u107	I'm done now, Madam President. Therefore, we are aware that the road to failure with these guidelines and policies that seek to deepen the process of European capitalist integration can correspond to the expectations and aspirations not only of the Greek people but of all the peoples of Europe. at the same time, there are those who sell illusions that, in the management framework of the capitalist system and, in particular, in the European management of this capitalist bloc, it is possible to find mere palliatives or remedies that solve these problems. We have the opposite opinion. We would like to know what the perspective of the Left Block on these issues, particularly with regard to a critical matter which has already been raised here today, which is that of renegotiating debt and breaking with the taxes imposed by the budgetary treaty and whether or not Portugal understands that it is possible to take a path that corresponds also to the expectations that the Portuguese people have and have translated into their struggle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u108	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u109	Madam President, Mr João Oliveira, I thank you for your question. in Greece, there was a particular electoral act, especially because it creates new political conditions not only in the country itself, but also in the European Union. We are not facing a revolutionary process, but we are facing a clear choice process that can change a lot. in Greece there were immense blackmails, as the honourable Member said, and very well in these elections : we had Angela Merkel, we had the European Commission, we had the ECB, we had everyone to put their hands on and say « the Greeks cannot choose someone who does not want austerity ». And we had this extraordinary result, which reveals four fundamental aspects. The first aspect is that it is possible for a people to choose against blackmail. It is possible in the European Union an election which is not for politics to be the same, but for politics to be another. The second is that it can come to power and become a government that has not been committed to anything that has destroyed our countries these years. It is not committed to either PPP or swaps, it has not bought submarines and has not signed troika memos. It is a party that has always been on the side of people's defense and that has never had promiscuity with financial interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u111	The third aspect, very important, is that it is possible to be in the European Council a government that will not say yes to Angela Merkel, a government that has a programme for its country, that has a commitment for its people and that is defending it. The fourth aspect is that the questions that the Portuguese Government... In addition, in Europe, the right and also the socialists always wanted to sweep beneath the carpet, but will now be present at all meetings of the Eurogroup or the European Council. Whether or not it is official, whether or not written in the minutes, the following will always be discussed: do we want to continue with austerity or do we do something else? Are we going to restructure the debts or are we going to continue serving the financial interests? There are two fields which clearly open up: to continue serving the interests of finance or to defend people. And that is why it is so important — because no country does the work of the other, no people does the work of the other, that is not waiting for what happens in Greece — that in more countries, as in Portugal, where we are and for which we have responsibility, we must be able to have strong, consistent and capable political force.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u112	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u113	I shall conclude, Madam President. And that in Portugal, as in Greece, it can be said that the time has come to defend the interests of people and to say no to the financial markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u114	Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u115	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I begin with what is necessary, which is to welcome the Left Block because Syriza has won this victory. We all know, it is factual, that in Portugal it is the Left Block that has claimed complicity, partnership with Syriza. Therefore, I also congratulate you on this victory in Greece. Madam Member, I would like to begin by saying that we must reduce these events to what they are. We have recently heard Mrs Cecilia Honorio here saying that Europe has changed on Sunday. And Mrs Catarina Martins also said: « The page in Europe was turned on Sunday». Madam Member, there has been an important change in Europe, but we have not yet changed the page and Europe has not yet changed. In fact, we have to be modest and humble: it is not a single country or a single leader who will be able to change Europe; it is all we have to do. It is not just an election in Greece, or Portugal, or Germany, or England that will change Europe. What will change it is all of us, when we return to the essential and fundamental values of Europe, when we return to solidarity and cohesion, what Europe has done in the past and what it must continue to do. Therefore, it is this pragmatism that we must all have and do not start to think that men or providential parties come there. Europe will change, yes, and will change with the help of Portugal and with the help of the Socialist Party, which, for a long time, has had a change project for Portugal and Europe. We defend anti-austerity policies and defend evolution in Europe and we have a change project that will deserve the confidence of the Portuguese. This will also contribute to the change of Europe. Therefore, Mrs Catarina Martins, of course, welcomes developments in Greece, but this development will still have to produce results. For this to happen there must be moderation and there must be pragmatism on the side. The Greeks and Europe must show this moderation and pragmatism. Greece has already begun to show it: in the formation of the coalition there is no lack of pragmatism. Europe will certainly also show it and will want to match the will of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u116	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u117	I shall conclude, Madam President. There is a fundamental aspect I would like to point out, which is the fact that the Prime Minister of the Greek Government has stressed that he wishes to remain in the euro. This is a fundamental sign that is essential at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u118	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question. There's some previous information I wanted to give you. I don't know if you think Siryza defended the exit of the euro. He's just never defended. What Siryza has always defended—I must say that the Bloc also defends, so we are at ease; we have built up an economic programme for the European Union as a whole, in the Party of the European Left—is that there must be restructuring of sovereign debts just so that the European Union will continue to be viable. Therefore, the project was never out. There is no change there, but it is good to realize that at least there are those who have heard what has been said. When the Socialist Party talks about this issue, it makes me a bit uncomfortable, that I will give it all the frontal attention. Are we expecting to see what happens in Greece? Or are we going to do something for Europe to change? What's the position, after all? Are we watching a single government trying to change our lives in the European Union so that we can have a decent life? Or are we going to take the courage of Portugal also to demand this new life in the European Union? As far as I know, the Socialist Party continues to believe that'renegotiation' of debt is a very difficult and dangerous word to be said and therefore does not say so. And the Socialist Party continues to say that the budgetary treaty is to comply, that reading is to be smart. I never realized whether Jean-Claude Juncker is smarter than Durão Barroso or how he thinks it will influence the European Commission's intelligent reading of the budget treaty. Having said this, what the Socialist Party has as its European commitment is to cut every year EUR 6800 million in the State budget in Portugal. In other words, the Socialist Party, with the positions it has taken in Europe, what it proposes to our country is that every year the equivalent of an entire public school is cut, sinking us more and more into austerity. Therefore, Mr Vitalino Canas, I believe neither men nor providential parties, I believe in the courage to take political options and believe in the conviction that our country must be defended. So today there are two fields in Europe: the field of anyone who wants to stay in the same, the field of whom will discuss whether austerity should have a pinker tone or a more orange tone and there is the field of those who say that it is time to say it is enough austerity, which is at the time of austerity to do the bags, because we do not want to continue making the bags to emigrate from our country. It is time to change life and demand the restructuring of debt, which Germany had access to after the Second World War and which allowed it to grow. It is time to demand that same justice, that same solidarity, that only way of putting an end to austerity, the only way that can save our country and the European Union. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u120	The next political statement will be made by Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, January 2015, we can state what we can say in the distance from 2011. In 2014, budgetary consolidation was two-thirds on the side of expenditure and one-third on the side of revenue. We meet the deficit below the forecast in the 2015 State Budget. In three and a half years, we went along a path to correct the strong imbalance we inherited — more than 11 % in 2010 — which we decreased by about 7%. And in 2015 we will be below 3 %, placing ourselves at the target set: outside of the excessive deficit procedure. In 2015, we will reach the lowest deficit in the history of Portuguese democracy. The imbalances we inherited in 2011 are being corrected with obvious, effective and, for some, surprising results. at the external level, we now have surpluses in our external balance. This means that we are financing our economic growth — almost constant in the last 12 months — without indebtedness. We have reached a favourable position with the outside, which had not happened 40 years ago. We entered in 2015 with a completely different country, with the controlled public deficit, with a growth of 1, 5 %, planned for this year, and the Catholic University has already revised the growth expectations to 1, 9 %. But let us remember what is essential: the year 2015 is also marked by the return of income to Portuguese. [[False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u122	A sustained, gradual and responsible return. Mr President, we would all like a full refund of income to civil servants. And it would be fair if it could happen. But the circumstance does not allow it. So the government has committed itself, with responsibility and security, to return at least 20 % a year, and will do so - it has already begun to do so this January. In 2015 pensioners with pensions below €4600 will not have cuts. No cuts! It is pointed out that during this period of financial emergency, the Government has chosen — and has done so — to increase pensions by over one million and one hundred thousand Portuguese, who are pensioners of minimum pensions. They are €200 pensions that, with socialist governments, have been frozen. It should be noted that socialist governments have treated pensioners with minimum pensions in the same way that pensioners have treated pensioners with pensions of € 7000 or € 10 000. Strange form of equity! We increased the national minimum wage, the increase of which was sealed due to the commitment between the Socialist Government and the troika. during the course of the contacts with international institutions in the period under Program, the Portuguese Government expressed the intention to, after the end of the Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance ( PAEF ), cooperate with the social partners the link between the updating of the national minimum wage and the increase in productivity to promote the construction of extended consensus, together with the promotion of the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. We received a country that was in economic recession and with a dramatic situation from the point of view of the failure of the main structures of the State, in particular the failure to fulfil its fundamental responsibilities within the social state, and by the end of 2015 we will have a country that, in addition to economic growth, presents organized accounts. Today, we are in a position of greater competitiveness of the economy, we have a greater degree of openness to the outside, we have a sector protected from the economy that is less significant and we have an area of innovation, entrepreneurship, initiative on the part of companies and workers who assure us that we are not going through conjuncural episodes, but that we are structurally changing the paradigm of the Portuguese economy, as the Portuguese need and want. It is an economy that grows without debt, which has external demand, which registers more investment without subsidies. We have more favourable funding conditions. Small and medium-sized enterprises are now accessing much lower interest rates than they did a year ago. We will help many other companies improve their risk profile. It should be noted, however, that Portuguese companies with less risk are financing themselves today as some States are unable to do so. The Portuguese economy creates jobs and reduces unemployment. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all this was not due to chance; it resulted from the firm determination of a government and a majority and resulted from the work and commitment of Portuguese, businesses, entrepreneurs and workers. We follow a strategy, betting on solid and lasting foundations for growth. And today we have a degree of trust and credibility arising from the policies that we continue without zigzags and tickets. These results are objective, proven and recognized by many. They are good for Portuguese and so they are good for Portugal. on the side of the Socialist Party, according to the forecasts that were made over these three and a half years, the intentions and forecasts of the government were unrealistic, unattainable and unbearable. The purpose of the PS was to be consistent: early elections and new rescue. They have heard voices in the PS proclaiming "we don't pay! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And, in the face of positive results, they go into denial. We supported and used to a non-cooperative and unsatisfactory PS with positive results. What we do not bear is the offense directed at the Portuguese, business and entrepreneurs who made an effort to reverse the dramatic situation we inherited in 2011. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With full respect for the election decision of our Greek fellow citizens, I would like to say that what separates us from the circumstances of Greece is that we have not done what the Socialist Party wanted for Portugal — or perhaps for the PS — during the period of financial assistance. That is why « we will come to the page». And 'we will turn the page' into the European framework, integrated into a Europe in which we believe and that we want to deepen. The new opportunities for this old continent are the challenges we face and the way we demonstrate our ability to overcome them together. Challenges that, by their nature, call for greater integration and, by relevance, call for speed in their implementation. Effective and concerted integration is at the same time the origin and future of the European project in which we believe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u123	In order to make requests for clarification, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy signed. Deputies Eduardo Cabrita, of the PS, Pedro Filipe Soares, of the BE, Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP, and Paulo Sá, of the PCP. Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, however, informed the Bureau that she would answer two questions. Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u124	Madam President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I should like to tell you with all my friendship that I have listened carefully to the political statement you made on behalf of the PSD bench. What I was hoping to hear today was the brand of those who believe in Portugal and Europe and, on the other hand, hoped for a moment of redemption, in which a great national convergence was necessary that would allow these years of tragedy to be inflicted on Portugal and almost the destruction of the European project. But unfortunately, what brought us here was not a story of children, but something in a fable style that disguises the horror film that either the European project or the country have lived. I don't know what country you've been living in. This country today, after three years of recession, has a feeling of despair of a whole generation, the most qualified generation, which, by the Government, by its Prime Minister, is pushed into emigration. It is a country that today has a public debt, disclosed last week, which is 131, 4 % according to Eurostat data, that is almost 40 % more than what existed in 2010. This country is today marked by the anguish and lack of expectations of families, entrepreneurs, of all those who need hope and confidence to create wealth and who today have allowed the existence of a great national consensus, in the Economic and Social Council, in public opinion, and which means that a priority must be given to the size of investment and growth. This unites all in social consultation. Isolated is an extremist government. in this sense, I ask what is the role of the PSD in relation to the challenge of Dr. Silva Peneda, which says it is fundamental a convergence, an alliance of countries that believe in the role of investment, in the role of innovation, against a European orthodoxy by continuing in this extremism. Any action taken by the European Central Bank will always have Coelho Steps to counter-marine. Any new initiative, putting on the agenda the investment, including public investment, of the new Juncker Commission, always has Portugal on the wrong side of history. It's this horror story that unites the Portuguese today. It is necessary to 'turn the page' by Portugal and by the affirmation of a Europe of solidarity, cohesion and development, in which the danger is in the extremes, in the hidden markets and not in those who, like us, believe in Europe as a project of democracy, freedom and solidarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u125	You have the floor to ask the next question, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u126	Mrs President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, I confess that when at the end of her speech she addressed the issue of elections in Greece she hoped that the Prime Minister would 'amend his hand'. It was actually an expectation I had. I was hoping that the honourable Member would say, even according to her thinking, that, in the face of a decision by the Greek people through a remarkable expression of her will for the future, democracy should prevail and that the Portuguese Government should not rule against democracy in another Member State of the European Union. But that's what the honourable Member said. I also hoped that, following the reasoning of those who respect democracy and those who realize that when a people tires of being sacrificed on behalf of financial markets and therefore says 'we just want another policy', they could transfer to Portugal what has been applied in Greece. It is that austerity also knocked at the doors of the Greeks and was exactly with that door that they said they did not want to be confronted again. When we transfer these truths to Portugal, on the one hand, we see that the Portuguese Government is always on the side of those who want no change in European politics, even if it goes against the interests of our country, even if it goes against the interests of our people. We look at our country and we find that the government says 'no, we do not want to have an alternative to austerity, because we, in fact, want it to be austerity'. I was hoping that the honourable Member would blame me in this matter. We'll see what Greece is bringing us. I believe that we will have every opportunity to discuss what will be the 'page turn' in relation to each of the policies implemented in reality. But there is a truth that we can put on the table today. It is that hope has won austerity, hope has won the blackmail of those who are subjected to markets and therefore one of the defeated is also Pedro Passos Coelho. I ask, then, which side is the honourable Member on? on the side of those who respect democracy? on the side of those who realize that a sacrificed people must rise against the austerity imposed on them or on those who are subjected, such as the Portuguese Government and as Pedro Passos Coelho, who say "no, we do not want to change anything, what we want is to continue to sacrifice our country"? If your answer is for the second diapasion, in practice what we see is that all your intervention was mere propaganda, that there was no learning, there was no recognition of the mistakes, there was not even recognition of the sacrifices that the Portuguese people went through and how they should not continue on this path. [[CDS-PP protests.]] If your answer is in the sense of being next to Pedro Passos Coelho, next to the CDS and next to the PSD in this matter, then your intervention, in practice, has served to say "we have a heavy conscience, but even with it, we will continue to harm the country". [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u127	In reply, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u128	Madam President, Mr. Eduardo Cabrita, also with all the friendship, I tell you that you are totally wrong about the data you have brought us. First of all, it uses the expression « who believes in Portugal after these years of tragedy ». Mr. Depute, tragedy was three years ago, when in 2011 the Minister of Finance of his Government stated, before Portugal and the world, that he had no money to pay wages and pensions the following month. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u129	You've forgotten that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u130	Mr. Deputie, tragedy was when, three years ago, Prime Minister José Socrates, who led the majority of the PS parliament, refused to see evidence of the need for a financial rescue to Europe and delayed this request, despite successive warnings that were made. Tragedy was that moment when Portugal no longer had access to finance and credit. The anguish that the Portuguese, perhaps, had during this difficult period stemmed from the pre-bancarrot which the Socialist Party brought to Portugal and which eventually wanted to bring back. He would certainly forget that the public debt that the Socialist Party left us in 2011 would be in the order of 125 % if you hadn't hidden under the carpet a portion of the public debt that they had budgeted. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, as Mr Vitalino Canas recently said, the PS has a project for Europe. Well, but you can't say that you have a dream or a project for Europe, you have to say what this project is. What we know and what the Portuguese also know is that the PS, in three and a half years, wanted elections, not respecting democracy, to take power for power. That's what we know. We also know that the positive results that are currently being seen in Portugal — and in this case I am addressing Mr Pedro Filipe Soares — such as the return of income to Portuguese, the decrease in deficit, as well as the results that we have achieved and which I have just mentioned, as the almost constant economic growth, the creation of employment and the reduction of unemployment, are results that distance us from Greece, which put us on a completely opposite footing to Greece's start. But I must tell you, Mr President, that we do not welcome this because those who suffer are the Greeks, our fellow Greeks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u131	The Portuguese also suffer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u132	And they suffer because they're going to have to go through more damage precisely because they haven't achieved the results, despite the three financial bailouts to which they have submitted themselves. We and Greece started almost at the same time. The truth is, if we had done what the Left Block wanted to do today, we would very likely be in the same circumstances as Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u133	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u134	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u135	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u136	I shall now conclude, Madam President. As for the statements of a history of terror, I must say that the PSD, this coalition and this government will stand firm, on a path without zigzags, and will stand firm, too, in the recovery of Portugal and in the construction and deepening of the European project. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u137	Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, let us proceed with the other two requests for clarification. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u138	Madam President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, let me begin by congratulating her on her speech and by telling her that if we wanted to make a small assessment of the country's present moment, we would just notice in the political statements — and we have not yet heard that of the Socialist Party — of the opposition parties. It is that the opposition parties talk about what is happening outside the Portuguese borders and do not talk about what is happening in the country, because they have nothing to say about what is going on in here, unless they say well and that we are much better than we were in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u139	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u140	As for this attempt to usurp the success of third parties, I want to fully respect the sovereignty and choice of the Greek people, but we will see if it is a success of third parties. Mrs Deputy, of course, we have to make the statement of our values. We want to build more Europe, which is a club with rules, to which we adhere freely and spontaneously. So my question is this: do we contribute better by meeting the rules within a group or do we contribute better by not complying with the same rules? What gives us more power, more intervention force and perhaps even more capacity? Is it fulfilling or not fulfilling? It permeates here the idea that those who assert the rules make blackmail and those who do not want to comply with the rules do exercises of freedom and democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u142	I think there's something that needs to be explained calmly, serenely and even pedagogically. Madam Member, I would also like to say that you did very well, because I think the Portuguese deserve this word of comfort. Perhaps there are parties that have already abdicated or realized that these signs of what is happening in Europe are small signs that success for them will not be so obvious. It was enough to see, in the elections that have already taken place, what happened, except for the Left Block, to congeneral parties. We could have more data that distinguish us from Greece and believe that Greece's data are as true and as concrete as ours. Examples are various and almost at all levels. We could even go further in our progress from 2011 onwards, because the word « tragedy» only applies to the governance we had before. This refusal of the European model is the refusal of the policies that have led us to the rescue, which have led us to failure and which have called into question the European social model, is not the refusal of our solutions. Our solutions have brought us closer to this success.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u144	They talk about tragedy, but tragedy was the governance of the Socialist Party. And those who speak in the absence of solutions are not us, but former European and former governors, such as Correia de Campos, who says: « What a strange agenda for the Decade of the Socialist Party ». Instead of caressing the data that the honourable Member here has brought, rather than the powers, saying, "We will do even better, we will go further, we have solutions to improve the positive data that the Portuguese economy is launching", what does the Socialist Party do? It has a perhaps less consensual agenda with this effort. Although the honourable Member has already answered, I would like to ask you the following: what can we do? I think we should not change any of the reforms we are making, that is, we should continue to do them, and we should continue to comply with our partners, as we have always done. As it is different today, the country's perception of interest rates, the increase in exports and what we have been able to do about debt placement. Question : Should we or should we not continue to make reforms as we have done in the IRS and IRC? Should we or should we not ease the effort the Portuguese have made?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u145	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u146	By not comparing demagogically with what happened before 2011, all of this had a starting point and all of this had a plan and is about the evaluation and reaffirmation of that plan that would like to ask you a question: should we or should we not continue on this path? If they want to accompany us, they will be welcome, but if they do not, the Portuguese people will be able to draw the proper conclusions from it. [[Congratulations on the CDS and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u147	To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u148	Mrs President, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, made a political statement already in the midst of an election campaign. While the honourable Member made her political statement, I wondered which country she was talking about. It is that Portugal was certainly not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u150	In particular, it referred to an alleged recovery of Portuguese income. It's completely false, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit! Despite the formal conclusion of the troika programme last May, the reality is that troika policies, exploitation and impoverishment policies remain in force. If you have any doubts, I advise you to read Article 239. that of the State budget for 2015, which the honourable Member has approved, because she says, near to the target, that the measures of the troika remain in force. It is this policy of exploitation, impoverishment and submission that this Government intends to perpetuate, now through other instruments of submission, in particular the budgetary treaty. When the government took possession, it proclaimed two main objectives: reduction of deficit and reduction of public debt. Mrs Deputy, starting with the deficit, I ask: is the deficit reduced at what cost? This is the question that is of interest to ask and answer. What is the cost of reducing the budget deficit? I am replying: at the expense of the court in wages, the court in pensions, the court in social benefits — hundreds of millions of euros that have been cut into social benefits — of cuts in the social functions of the State, the cuts in health, education, social security and a brutal increase in taxes on workers' income. In short, it was at the expense of the impoverishment of the Portuguese and at the expense of the deepening of the national economy. As for public debt, the objective was its reduction. Member, public debt has not decreased, public debt has increased every year since the government took possession. Even last week we had access to the budget implementation data for 2014 showing that the direct debt of the State increased in 2014 and that the interest paid for that public debt also exceeded the EUR 7100 million in 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u151	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u152	I conclude, Madam President. In other words, debt continues to increase, interest continues to increase and therefore the question of the unsustainability of public debt and the need for its renegotiation arises. The question I put to you is: what is the PSD's perspective on these matters? Would the PSD continue to submit itself, in spite of creditors' demands to pay in advance the IMF loan, when the country is sinking, when the Portuguese are impoverished? Of course, our answer is 'no'! This is not the way, the way is the renegotiation of debt in terms of terms, interest and amounts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u153	In reply, Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u154	Mr President, Mr Hélder Amaral, made an excellent comment when referring to the fact that we can choose to comply with rules or not comply with rules. I want to ask this very slowly: should we or should we not comply with the rules? Mr Hélder Amaral, I think that the rules of democracy clearly answer this question. Of course we must comply with the rules, of course we must comply with the commitments we have made, of course we must honour those same commitments. Fortunately, we are on the side of those who do so, and it is precisely because we are on the side of those who do so that we can clearly be distanced from the current situation in Greece. We have done so, not only with the determination of a consistent, consistent strategy, that this coalition has led forward, but also with the work and the commitment of the Portuguese, the entrepreneurs, the workers, who, in a difficult time, knew how to raise their sleeves and move forward with the sacrifices and with the measures that were necessary for us to solve the most pressing problems. I would like to make it clear that, for us, compliance with the rules is an imperative of the rule of democratic law, and that is why we will comply with them. We can change them, if so, but in agreement and in accordance with the rules for the procedure for amending these same rules. As for us, and because we are not on election campaign, we will continue with this reformist momentum, we will continue with the reforms that have brought us these very positive results and that the Portuguese feel already this year of 2015. Mr. Paulo Sá, I know very well the speech that has brought us here; it is a classic, traditional speech that has been back for a long time — it is the same before and after 1989. It turns out that all the references you made by introducing these ideological bricks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u155	Clavons? Ideological? They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u156	...demagogics, they have to be framed in what is reality. And the reality, Mr. Paulo Sá, is that when we have expenditure we have to have revenue to pay for it. I have emphasized here that we have made this brutal deficit correction, I have been down by 7% the deficit since 2010 and we are going to enter the championship of those who are not in the context of the excessive deficit. Of course, we cut two thirds of the expenditure, having been one third of the revenue, as I began to say in my speech. However, we have done so, Mr, because we have no revenue for the expenditure, and that is what the Portuguese need to know at home. Mr. Member, when we talk about revenue, we're talking about the money coming out of the taxpayers' purse, because every torso that pays...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u157	Of some, not all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u158	Surely it is from some, Mr, because, as I have just told you, we have protected... in the Budget you asked me to read, which I have read and, as you know, we have extended exceptionally and exceptionally the number of people who will not be subject to IRS payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u159	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u160	In addition, we relieve families with the family quotient.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u161	O Mrs. Deputy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u162	however, honourable Member, we are a country that has to be realistic and the Portuguese at home know that our expenditure has to be within the framework of our revenue and that the revenue comes from the taxpayers' purse. That's the taxpayer's bag that we're gonna continue to respect. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. President. — Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live a time of change in the European Union, a time that requires reflection and action. last week, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) announced an important intervention in the debt market, with the announcement of availability for the purchase of public debt from euro countries on a significant scale. It will be possible to discuss the real impact of this change in the role of the ECB in European policy, but there are two findings that are unavoidable. The first is that this intervention is an attempt to respond to a serious problem that threatens the European economy: the problem of deflation. Deflation is a serious problem, it is a European problem and it is a problem — one more — of asymmetric consequences, which accentuates the inequalities that are increasingly strong in the countries of the euro and the European Union. And there is no doubt today that deflation in Europe is the sole responsibility of those who have conceived and implemented Europe's response to the so-called sovereign debt crisis. It was the 'austerity' and'recessive' response which accepted the explosion of unemployment, the sometimes brutal breakdown of income, the contraction of demand, which led Europe to the risk of prolonged stagnation. Risks of stagnation in a Europe that in five years has seen more than six million jobs destroyed. And in these choices, choices that dramatically marked the lives of millions of Europeans, the Portuguese Government has always been on the wrong side of history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was on the side of those who have always opposed the ECB's intervention in sovereign debt markets, on the side of those who have sought to prevent this intervention from taking place earlier and thus with more chances of success. But the ECB's decision leads us to a second finding: that these policies, which are right but late today, are no longer sufficient to remove Europe from deflationary stagnation. It is the President of the European Central Bank himself who says this: without a growth-friendly budget policy these measures will have no effect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Members, this change leads us to the second novelty of the last few days: the European Commission's decision to simplify the conditionalities of economic policy for the Member States by allowing some of the public expenditure (the contribution to the Juncker fund, the national counterpart of the structural funds, the reforms that increase the growth potential) is not included in the calculation of the deficit for the evaluation of the Stability and Growth Programme. And again here the Portuguese Government is on the wrong side of history. It is twofold on the wrong side, because the Prime Minister's interventions to devalue and criticize these measures are numerous, saying that nothing applies to Portugal. The Prime Minister who seems to be obsessed with continuing to beat himself by the title of champion of the so-called expansionist austerity. But more seriously, the Portuguese Government's voice has not yet been heard to argue that the European Commission must change the criteria which exclude Portugal from any of the dimensions of this flexibility. We all have a patriotic obligation to fight for Portugal to have full access to the flexibility now approved in budgetary management. As you have already done, Members of the European Socialist Party and Members of various countries. It is now that Portugal needs more stimulus for economic recovery and it is now that the Portuguese Government's voice should be clearly heard, if it were not once again on the wrong side of history. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Europe is also living today a unique moment of the result of the Greek elections, elections that brought us two important signs: the first, that a significant majority of the Greek people want to be part of Europe of the European Union and of the euro Europe; the second, that the Greek voters, by choosing to vote clearly in the winning party, Syriza, said they did not believe in the way that European policies have chosen for Greece. It is time to abandon the fact that Portugal is not Greece and to realize that, with all the differences — and they are many — known, many of the problems of Greece are also problems in Portugal and that the solutions to be found are solutions of our particular interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The solutions to the challenge the new political situation in Europe can never be bilateral solutions but solutions to the problems of the euro and monetary union. The European Union, a space of pluralism and diversity, solidarity and citizenship, has to be able to give a positive response to the challenge it faces with responsibility and spirit of commitment, definitely correcting the temptation of the single thought and the thesis that there is no alternative to the path that others have chosen. The Europe of the Union and the euro cannot be built on the rubble of the social model; it cannot be built on the retreat of universal health services with results such as those we live in Portugal today ; it cannot be built on the drama of new diasporas that we thought were overcome, nor on the increasingly threatening gap of the growing inequalities in the European space. Europe cannot look without seeing the risks that threaten us all, cannot listen without listening to the voices of those who can little. We know that there are no easy and unfavourable solutions, but today we know that everyone's responsibility must be combined with the construction of responses to the wishes of European citizens. The plural and citizen Europe must be re-founded, thus plural and citizen, on the right side of history. It is this ambition that Portugal has to be a partner and se-CL-will -it with the future government of Portugal, sê-CL- will -it with the vast majority of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u164	Mr Vieira da Silva, four Members have signed up for clarification. First of all, Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u165	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, we have listened carefully to the political statement he made from the rostrum and, weakly, I wanted to say to him that my bench hoped to be clarified more clearly on the Socialist Party's position on absolutely relevant issues, on what we have to define for the future in Portugal, but also on the issues of Europe. And if Mr Vieira da Silva has spoken profusely on the questions of Europe, he has said little or nothing about Portugal. Mr. Vieira da Silva, I wanted to tell you that last Sunday, during Dr. António Costa's reactions to Greek elections, I thought for myself whether we had the previous leadership of the Socialist Party, Dr. António José Seguro, with François Hollande and now the leadership of Dr. António Costa with the Greek Syriza party. This is because, over the past few years, we have heard several protagonists of the Socialist Party pronounce themselves on the question of Portuguese public debt, but what we have drawn from these statements is that they still had no consolidated position, which needed to be studied. Now, after listening to Dr António Costa, I was hoping that, once and for all, that was what he induced — what the Socialist Party was defending in relation to Portuguese public debt was precisely what was reflected in the Syriza electoral programme. And Dr. Vieira da Silva said we were on the wrong side of history.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u166	They've been and are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u167	Mr President, what the Portuguese who hear us should be asking is whether on the right side of history would be those who ruled the country and took him to the pre-bank. Were those on the right side of history the protagonists who exponentially increased the public deficit, the public debt, which increased unemployment and led Portugal to ask for external aid? Mr Vieira da Silva wants to join his voice in a narrative on the radical left, trying to say that Portugal and Greece have a lot in common, that what we are saying that Portugal is not Greece is not very true, that we have the same problems, that the situation is the same. Mr President, it is certainly not because, fortunately, if we look at the polls, the Left Bloc — the Portuguese Syriza — continues to lose the electorate, even in the face of what has already been the worst result of the last legislative elections. On the other hand, I thought the honourable Member would say that we are so much alike that the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u168	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u169	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, I thought that the honourable Member was going to say that we are so similar that the Socialist Party was very close to those who are the political positions of the Socialist Pasok, who had the result that it had and, as you know, was in the government coalition. But, Mr President, to conclude, the budget deficit in Greece is 12, 2 %, the budget deficit in Portugal is less 4, 4 % ; unemployment in Greece is 25, 80 %, unemployment in Portugal was 13, 30 % in November 2014 ; public debt in Greece is 176 %, public debt in Portugal is 131 %. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u170	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u171	And, Mr. President, even to finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u172	That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u173	... as regards interest in public debt — the macro question, the question which led the Socialist Party to ask for external aid — in Greece is 10, 70 %, but Portugal today is financed by interest of 2, 35 %. Mr President, the question I want to leave to Mr Vieira da Silva is this: say there, after all, if on the right side of history are those who have led the country to bankruptcy or those who have made the country grow, unemployment to decline and Portugal with total autonomy, saying once and for all that we do not need the troika again? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u174	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u175	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement. We follow him, of course, when he says that the government has been on the wrong side and, at the same time, about the urgency of new responses that European citizens and citizens deserve. However, I would like you to give us, in this Parliament, the opportunity to take the following scenario seriously: we imagine that there was the hypothesis of a PS government and that PS government wanted to be on the right side. Given this scenario, I leave you with two fundamental questions, the first of which has to do with restructuring sovereign debts or, if you prefer, renegotiating. It is on the European political agenda today, we have heard some voices, particularly from countries in the south, in order to find room for a conference on this subject and, on this issue of debt renegotiation, Antonio Costa has no proposal, the PS has no proposal. Tell us, Mr Vieira da Silva, anything about the PS proposal for the restructuring of Portuguese debt, which today reaches 130 % of GDP or is very close there. The second question has to do with the statements by Antonio Costa that have, in fact, turned away from some of Europe's fellow leaders, particularly those who have gone further, and tried to address the future of the euro. Finally, he called it 'common currency', and commonly he has nothing, but he raised the question of the future of the euro, which is a fundamental issue. As we well know, Mr President, the future of the euro is drawn to the budgetary treaty and to this long-term commitment of austerity, a debt that must be limited to 60 % within 20 years. The budgetary treaty is the continuity and eternity of austerity policy. And what António Costa tells us about the budget treaty, and I think I am, more or less, quoting it, is that it allows for intelligent and flexible interpretation and, in this sense, the proposal is for the flexibility of the budget treaty. I would like to ask you exactly what this means, because there is no provision for flexibility in the budgetary treaty itself. Therefore, what the PS means is precisely this possibility of intelligent reading and of potential flexibility of a budget treaty which objectively does not foresee it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u176	You've been unattended, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u177	And why is the PS still...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u178	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u179	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, why does the PS continue to give these answers on the basis of the « nim»? Oh, my God! I would even say that António Costa is a kind of « Mr. No » about the country's response to proposals and austerity policy. It is a kind of « Mr. Nim', Mr Vieira da Silva, unless today, finally, the honourable Member, on behalf of the PS, is here to say to this House, how does the PS look at the alternative proposals that need to be built and whether it wants to be the alternative that has been called here by some of its colleagues! Is that what you're talking about? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u180	To reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u181	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, Mrs Cecília Honorio, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. Mr Hugo Soares, when I went to the rostrum, said that I was going to make an intervention on European policy and that is what I did in fact. You do not want to discuss European policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u182	Yes, we do!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u183	... they criticized me for not talking about national politics and saying that you are on the wrong side of history. But I can see why I consider this, Mr President. It is that the leader of your party, and Prime Minister, has successive statements — I have a huge list here — to counter the advantage of the European Central Bank's intervention in the public debt market. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u184	There are several statements!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u185	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u186	Well, you have expressions that I'm not even going to use for fear, because I wasn't there, that they're excessive,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u187	Shocking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u188	... but they're shocking. Then, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I have not yet heard from the Government or the parties of the majority on any position on the decisions of the European Commission on the flexibility of the deficit criteria. And I should have listened, in defense of national interests. Now, if you prefer me to talk about the Portuguese situation and tell you why you are on the side of those who have failed, believing in the policy of recessive austerity, I say to you, with very simple numbers, and numbers of your government. You, in the first Stability and Growth Programme that you presented in this House made forecasts for GDP, made forecasts for exports, made forecasts for employment, made forecasts for investment and, look, if everything goes well, in 2015, as you propose, will be 6, 2 % below GDP forecast, 7% below export forecasts, 21 % below investment forecasts, 280 000 jobs below job forecasts. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] If this is not to fail across the line, tell me what it is because, if not, I have to add other matters, such as those of the indicators of poverty or immigration that exist in Portugal, as there was a long time ago. That is why, for the European reality and for the national reality, you are on the wrong side of history. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u189	Mrs Cecilia Honorio, the position of the Socialist Party is a position of respect for the vision we have of the European Union and of refusal of the dominant vision, of the unique thought that has long been established in the European Union. But, Mrs Deputy, no electoral victory in any country of the European Union, nullifies the electoral legitimacy of other victories. What is needed is to know how to build compromise spaces within the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u191	There is no electoral victory, whether from Syriza, whether from a socialist party, or from any other party, that gives legitimacy to impose another policy, but gives legitimacy for European leaders to look differently to those who are the different realities of the European Union. And this view in a different way actually goes by paying particular attention to what is now the cost of public debt in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u192	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. It is a fact that we are not equal to Greece, although it also costs me a little to realize the distinction that the majority makes from Greece, when it is known that in recent years the leadership of the Greek Government has been a party sitting on the same side of the PSD and CDS bench in the European Parliament. But finally... what I'd like to tell you about this...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u194	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u195	I will finish, Mr. President. What I would like to tell you about this is that one of the things that distinguishes us from Greece is that, today, Portugal pays more interest on public debt, as a percentage of GDP, than all other countries, including Greece. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u196	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u197	Mr José Ribeiro and Mr Castro have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u198	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva : the honourable Member started well; and then went on badly. It started well, because it justified the quantitative ease (QE ) as it is, in other words, a measure that aims to respond to a new problem, which is the risk of deflation, and is taken in a timely manner. If it had been taken longer, it would have been a complete nonsense; now it is a timely answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u199	There's no need to prove it! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u200	And the honourable Member, who is also an economist, knows that intervention measures are taken to respond to problems when they happen and at the right time to intervene. That is why the Portuguese Government and we support this measure ourselves, as we have made it clear. But it is also important to make it clear that this does not mean that the rules have ended. The set of interventions that the ECB has taken — it is not the first time Mario Draghi intervenes on the debt market and within the limits of what the Treaty allows, and well, he has already had a previous intervention with great impact — it is only possible, because it is the end of the expression, the budget collapse and the governments have gone on to comply with rules, which gives room for more daring policies. It is essential that governments fulfil their side of responsibility and therefore assume policies of rigour and budgetary balance. But there is also an important challenge here, which is that the resources now being injected by this measure are not 'food' by the States, to return to times of lack of rigour in public finances, nor by the banks, to cover holes that have accumulated for mismanagement, and actually reach the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u201	Tell me how they get there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u202	As for the wrong side of history, whoever was on the wrong side of history, and we know - it was the Socialist Party, which led us to the precipice and justified the intervention of the troika. We are now on the right side of history, because, with much effort and sacrifice, we have come to balance our accounts and to rebuild the economy and employment gradually. The honourable Member also spoke about the Greek elections and the comment he wanted to make is what Syriza now looks like a sort of 'Sixth International'. It was already Wednesday, Thursday was unsuccessful, now it is the ‘Sixth International’! It's the Block, it's the PCP, it's the PS: live the Syriza! It is the ‘Sixth International’! Well, it's weird. It's weird, why? Because, in the case of the PS, the success of Syriza is done at the expense of the destruction of Pasok and the disappearance of the party of the former Prime Minister Papandreou, socialist. And I ask: Does the PS now in Spain support the PSOE or support the Podemos? What's your ally? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u203	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u204	But this "Sixth International" is also strange, because Syriza chose not the comrades of the Greek Communist Party, but the independent Greeks on the radical right. And we saw, on the left side, an extraordinary blessing from the extreme right. No one is shocked, because Marine Le Pen wanted Syriza's victory! A few years ago, when Haider made a coalition, it was a here d’el-rei, because it was necessary to destroy the Austrian government; that Syriza connects with someone who has anti-Semitic declarations in Greece, it’s no problem, it’s a joy to the left! In fact, it's an extraordinary thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u205	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u206	I'm asking you if you think that's right. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Now, Mr President, you have spoken in ruins and let me tell you one thing: the future of Europe and Portugal is not done under the rubble of public finances or under the rubble of currency value. This is essential to ensure: balanced public finances and a currency in which we can trust. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u207	To ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u208	Mr President, Mr Vieira da Silva, in fact, the result of this government's policy is well in view, it is in view of the chaos of emergencies in Portuguese hospitals, it is in view of unemployment, it is in view of increasing the risk of poverty among Portuguese people, it is in view of precariousness, it is in view of forced immigration. And the truth is that the current European context is not the same as last Friday. The Greek people expressed themselves unequivocally against the policy of the troika, against the European Union's taxes, impoverishment and exploitation. irrespective of political, economic and social developments in Greece, there are a number of issues which today are different and which are decisive for the future of the peoples of Europe. The renegotiation of sovereign debts increasingly assumes greater preponderance and there are more and more voices that join in the urgent need for this renegotiation. The Socialist Party has come here to put an end to the European Union and to the need for intervention by the European Union, but we still do not understand which side of the Socialist Party and what commitments it has spoken about in this debate and on which we have persistently asked questions and which have not given us the answer. What are the commitments with regard to the urgent need for debt renegotiation? What are the commitments with regard to the budget treaty? Do they accept or do they not accept the European Union, the structural reforms with regard to labour aspects, the social rights that should be guaranteed to all peoples? The fact is that the Socialist Party has not yet fully clarified which side it is on its side, that is, whether it is next to the national interests of the Portuguese country and people, or is next to a policy that has led, as has indeed led our country to disaster, which has led to impoverishment, exploitation and has deprived thousands and thousands of Portuguese of access to social rights. In fact, that is not clear, but from your speech, Mr President, there was a bad wish here when you pointed out as positive this measure by the European Central Bank which is no longer useful to inject money into the financial system. Therefore, the prospects we have in relation to the Socialist Party's commitments are not good and the truth is that everything that has been your policies and the measures that have essentially supported are next to the capital, the major economic groups and not to defend the interests of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u209	To reply, Mr Vieira da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u210	Mr President, Mr Ribeiro and Mr Castro, of course I have appreciated the role of the Central Bank in this initiative which has been called quantitative facilitation. however, Mr President, this action now is indeed a measure that is justified — having other effects, as you well know — because of the tremendous risk of deflation in Europe. But what caused the risk of deflation in Europe and what did not happen in the United States or in other parts of the world also affected by the crisis?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u211	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u212	What caused, more than risk, the path to deflation was the predominance of « austerity » policies, in addition to all economic rationality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u214	If the mechanism of quantitative easing had been used in the right time, as it was in other parts of the world, we would not be using it late today to answer a problem such as the problem of deflation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what you have always opposed. It was a sort of sacred place, the ECB could not get into it because it could even lead to wars. If the ECB had taken the intervention that many have defended — or some have defended — in 2010 or 2011, Europe would have saved millions of jobs. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u215	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u216	Mr President, I am not going to enter the elections and coalition options of Syriza here. This is a Syriza problem, I do not think it is very important, not even very curial, to be at this stage, even above, to comment on it or criticize it. However, I will make it clear that when I quoted the results of the Greek elections, I did not wish to congratulate myself on the victory of Syriza, which is not of my political family—it is not, nor will it be! — it was only to highlight what was clear. It was to point out, after all these years, after such rescues and after policies led by parties of your political family, Mr Ribeiro and Castro, and of my own, that the Greek voters said no, that this path would not lead to anything. If Europe does not understand this sign, it will not meet the historical responsibilities of this difficult time for the European situation. Mrs Paula Santos, the Socialist Party will always be on the side of national, Portuguese and Portuguese interests to defend Portugal's participation in the European Union, monetary union and the single currency. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u217	We know that this is not an easy way, because there have been too many mistakes in the conduct of European policy, and few are exempt from the assessment of responsibilities in the face of these mistakes. When I talk about compromises, I make myself clear to you that I am talking about compromises in the European area because solving the problem created by the Greek election results is not a problem of the European Commission, or of the European Council, and of Greece. It is a problem of the European Union and commitments must be built within the European Union and within the single currency, in response to the problems of all countries of the single currency, because the risks to Europe today are at risk to the euro area.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u218	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u219	The risks of deflation are risks for Europe, but they are stronger and heavier for the countries of the so-called « periphery », for the countries of southern Europe. That is why the commitment must be built on the basis of what the foundations of the European Union are, foundations of cohesion and solidarity, to prevent this tremendous drift towards inequality and asymmetries. in response to these commitments there must necessarily be a look that sees and answers the public debt problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u220	For a political statement, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Known for the 2014 budget implementation, we confirm that invariably the good news for the country is always bad news for the Socialist Party. What a strange way of life this Socialist Party has!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u222	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u223	Knowing the data of the 2014 budget implementation, we confirmed that the opposition’s theimosia always wanted to deny. In 2014, the deficit was better than expected. In 2014 : the deficit dropped to EUR 1761 million compared to 2013 ; the state spent less; expenditure decreased to EUR 1192 million; unemployment decreased as it did not happen long ago; economic recovery was a reality; wealth creation was above the euro area average; for the second year we reached a positive primary balance, a fundamental condition for having a sustainable public debt in the long term;... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... the Portuguese state has honored its commitments and paid its suppliers in good time; the confidence of consumers and economic agents has recovered; we have fulfilled the goals we commit ourselves to; we have ended the rescue and we have regained our sovereignty. And all this means that the credibility of the journey has a value and that, above all, has consequences: the consequence of fiscal relief and hope. But how good is credibility after all? How much is credibility in Portuguese life and day after day? It's worth the recovery of income. It's worth the recovery of purchasing power. It is worth the refund of the salaries that the PS cut. The elimination of the ESC (extraordinary contribution of solidarity). It is worth the rise of the national minimum wage that the PS has frozen. It is worth the reform of the IRS that this government has defined and against which the PS has voted. It is worth increasing the income available to those who work and have dependent children. It was worth the second consecutive tax drop for the companies, a proposal against which the PS voted. It's worth the investment attraction. It is worth creating jobs. Better financing conditions are needed for the economy. It was worth the thawing of minimum, social and rural pensions. It was worth the decline in moderate rates. It was worth a drop in the price of drugs. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] There is therefore a whole difference between the time of the PS and the time of this government. The time in which, after all, there was no second ransom; the time in which, after all, there was no cautious program; the time in which, after all, there was no recessive spiral; the time in which, after all, there was no troika; the time in which, after all, there was no unrealism; and the time in which, after all, reality never yielded to demagogy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is clearly the time when the boldness and capacity of the Portuguese did not leave room for the discredit of the opposition. There is a whole difference between this time and PS time, the time the PS lost in its plot and in a fiction that he himself created. And, speaking your terminology, so that we understand each other, there was indeed a shock. And it wasn't a technological shock. Yes, there was a frontal collision between the fate they had prophesied to Portugal and what the Portuguese had managed to do, despite your legacy. There is therefore a huge and unmistakable difference between your time and this time, which is the time of responsibility, coherence, consolidation, growth, credibility; in short, the time of the right direction. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course we have a lot to do. It is true that we have difficulties to overcome and challenges to overcome. The PS and the opposition say that the merit of the resumption is the Constitutional Court. We say that the merit of the resumption is of all Portuguese—of those who work, of those who invest, of those who strive, of those who have endured sacrifices. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We do not deny it, we do not whiten the past, contrary to what was the practice of others. We assumed the difficult trajectory that we had to do and that began with a black, fearful and threatening starting point, but that it is good to remember, how many times it is necessary, that it was not defined by us, that it was not chosen by us...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u224	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u225	...and that was, yes, transformed by us, by all Portuguese over time. But, at the end of the race period and the loss of sovereignty, now that we have regained our sovereignty, what is today opposed to telling the true workers, the anonymous citizens who have conquered all these victories and have achieved the economic recovery of the country? What has the opposition to tell the thousands of new companies that were created in 2014? to those who have invested in them, to those who risk, to the workers who every day push them forward and who every day fight, work, engage and win with them? Little or nothing. The opposition is intertwined in the party rhetoric and in the failure of prediction, in the pre-electional discourse. It is important to make it clear, especially for the party whose ambition is to become a government, that this country does not, in fact, rule quietly. So we'd like the PS to come to the game. We would like to hear once and for all what this Socialist Party in our country wants to do, what it wants to do in this country, regardless of the more or less favourable winds that blow up Europe. But if the PS reserves itself to silence, we tell what we saw and say what we don't want: we don't want any more debt, we don't want more expenditure, we don't want more deficit, we don't want no more TGV, we don't want no more airports, we don't want no more third crossings. We want to have the feet sitting on the earth and the eyes set in the future, but no more jumps. I shall finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u226	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u227	... saying the following: the promises of "all, for everyone, for free" do not go away from utopias on the radical left, which the Socialist Party seems to want now to follow closely. Dangerously close, I'd say. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u228	The Bureau registered two requests for clarification. The honourable Member will inform the Bureau whether it intends to respond individually or as a whole. To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u229	Mr. President, Mrs. Vera Rodrigues, I like to go to the game, but I can only go to the game with someone who comes down from planet Mars and lands with his feet on planet Earth. Madam Member, this pre-election speech becomes insulting, but before that it is factually incorrect, because the honourable Member is here saying that all the indicators of confidence are increasing, that unemployment is decreasing, that GDP is growing... Mr Member, have you consulted the economic data in recent times?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u230	We have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u231	She agrees that you consult them before you come here to say things that are manifest, objectively and definitely false. All the economic indicators of recent times have been reversed and are today negative, Mrs Deputies. All of them! The unemployment indicators, which have increased the turnover, industry, trade, which have deteriorated, the confidence of consumers, which has deteriorated. Madam Member, the only data we do not yet know are the GDP data in the last quarter, but, taking into account the already known indicators, we will probably see when they leave — will confirm the very strong slowdown in economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u232	If you've slowed down, it's because you're speeding up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u233	Madam Member, one of the conclusions of today's hearing with Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget, which has the merit of being less propagandistic than the honourable Member and having a serious debate on these matters, is that for the first time a recognition has been made in relation to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I am referring to the statements made by the Secretary of State today in this Parliament, so I am not saying so. In fact, I said and Mr. Secretary of State confirmed. So from that moment on, if you want to lie to me, I am sorry to say that you must also deny the Secretary of State of the Budget. And what he said was simple: « Mr. Member, I will not say that this fully explains it but explains it quite a lot». This is what Mr. Secretary of State said. So, Mrs. Member, do you want to come here and lie to Mr. Secretary of State? Today's hearing also proved something else: there was a perfect correlation in 2013 and 2014 between the animation of economic activity, the growth of employment and the retreat in austerity. That is, whenever the government was forced to retreat in austerity, the economy responded positively; whenever the government resumed austerity, the economy responded negatively. I will finish, Mrs Deputy, by asking you for a comment. at the end of last year, the government significantly stopped public expenditure. In addition to the opinion of UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support), budgetary consolidation efforts were strengthened at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u234	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u235	Interestingly, in the same end of the year there was a slowdown in the economy and employment growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u236	If you've slowed down, it's because you're speeding up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u237	Madam Member, would you like to ask you a very simple question: do you or do you not recognise that this final effort to reduce expenditure has been made with sacrifice of employment and economic activity? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u238	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Simões Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u239	Mr President, Mrs Vera Rodrigues, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and welcome you for your intervention. It is, in fact, that after we have heard much of what has happened out there in this plenary, the honourable Member has resumed the discussion on this is essential,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u240	He landed in Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u241	... that is, the effort of Portugal and the Portuguese to solve their problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u243	And it is important that these problems, the commitment of the Portuguese and the commitment of the Government, which with the Portuguese recovered Portugal from the legacy left by the Socialist Party, are much debated and emphasized in this plenary. Mrs Galamba spoke here in the indicators, but I do not really know where he saw those indicators or how he did not see positive indicators. However, I cannot but say that the only indicator which I see as positive from the point of view of the honourable Member — because all economic indicators reinforce what we see as positive factors in the Portuguese economy — is the vote indicator of the Socialist Party, which is not seen in the polls.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u244	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u245	That is the only indicator that should concern you. Madam Member, I would like to ask you a question which has to do with the matter which you have spoken to us about, i.e. the implementation of the budget. She recalls with certainty what the Socialist Party and the opposition parties said about what the budget would be in 2014. He remembers with certainty, even because he is a member of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, that Mr Galamba said he did not understand how this Budget would contribute to budgetary consolidation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u246	If I had been at today's hearing, I'd know that was discussed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u247	More: former leader Pedro Adam and Silva, of the Socialist Party, said that he doubted much that we were going to reach the goal of the deficit, he said until the Budget was a political farce. Mrs. Deputy, a year later, everything the Socialist Party said was your perspective on the implementation of the budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u248	There was a corrective budget on January 9, I don't know if you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u249	... it proved to be a achievement, it did not occur, and yet, because with the efforts of Portugal and the Portuguese—not the Socialist Party, who always wanted the worst for Portugal—it happened precisely the opposite. Madam Member, I leave you with a final question: could you remind us what the opposition parties, particularly the Socialist Party, had to do with the implementation of the 2014 Budget? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u250	In reply, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u251	Mr President, Mr Galamba, starting with an answer from you, I would like to say that it would be good that when you report today's hearing with Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget it would be factual, rigorous and lower the tone of arrogance. It looked good on him! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u252	Say your version!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u253	Even because we should be a little less arrogant, especially when we are caught with the "mouth in the shop" in relation to failures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u254	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u255	Mr President, do you not recognise that it was precipitated when, on Friday, you did the analysis of the budget implementation and you came to say: 'No, this budget execution is not due to the effort and work of the Portuguese people, is it due to the breakdown of investment'?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u256	Add the rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u257	Mr President, tell me what Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget told you today about the fall in investment, that you had found as a fundamental reason for the failure and misfortune of the country. Mr President, reality tends to deny it. Recently, your party colleague, Mr Vieira da Silva, said that Europe cannot look without seeing. For I tell you that whoever didn't see anything was the party that left the country on the edge of the pre-bank. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] They looked, they looked, but they didn't see anything. And against facts there is no argument! Mr President, I would also like to tell you that, indeed, today, little has been said about forecasting failures, because there is a difference between failing the default forecast and failing by excess. And far away there are times when we have a difference in the execution of the expenditure of billions of euros. Fortunately, we had a better deficit than was expected in EUR 655 million. There is a fundamental difference, and this Socialist Party cannot deny the height of its arrogance. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u258	Mrs. Members, we will move on to the second item of the agenda, which consists of the assessment of Decree-Law No 172 -A / 2014, which amends, under and in the development of Law No 30 / 2013 — Social Economic Bases Act of 8 May, the Statute of the Special Institutions of Social Solidarity, as annexed to Decree-Law No 119 / 83 of 25 February, as amended by Decrees-Law Nos 9 / 85 of 9 January, 89 / 85 of 1 April, 402 / 85 of 11 October, and 29 / 86 of 19 February [ Parliamentary assessment No 123 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) ]. In representation of the party requesting parliamentary assessment, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u259	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: By welcoming this legislative initiative to review the Statutes of the Special Institutions of Social Solidarity ( IPSS ), which dates from 1983, the PS wants to leave in this debate three fundamental points. First of all, as is known and recognized by the third sector, it is important to invoke at the moment some determining facts of the relationship between the State and the social institutions in recent decades. I recall: the Pact for Cooperation for Social Solidarity in 1996, where the principles of cooperation between the institutions of social solidarity and the State were signed, then the Minister of Solidarity Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues ; the social income of inclusion and the complement of solidarity for the elderly in 1997 and 2006, instruments of combating poverty and social exclusion that had never previously been achieved in the social protection of the poorest, were then Ministers Ferro Rodrigues and Vieira da Silva ; the beginning of the mandatory cooperation protocols in 1999, was Minister Ferro Rodrigues. I also recall: the expansion of the social equipment network, and the moments of greater growth of the social equipment network in Portugal, linked to increased cooperation, were in 1995, with the launch of the public pre-school network, and in 2006 with the Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ( PARES ) — they were Ministers Ferro Rodrigues and Vieira da Silva ; the National Care Network Continued in 2006 — they were Ministers Correia de Campos e Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u260	Those, yeah! ... Those who took the country to bankruptcy are good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u261	The facts I have just cited make it very clear that the relationship between the State and the third sector is a relationship that has been deepened and built over time. It is a relationship based on growing trust and maturity, it is a relationship that testifies to the evolution of cooperation between the State and the IPSS, with a direct consequence of the increase in social responses and rights in our society. The Decree-Law in appreciation is so, and only one more piece in this long history of partnership between the State and the institutions of social solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secondly, the change to the IPSS Statute should have allowed a broad public debate, from the institutions of social solidarity from north to south of the country, with the authorities and with the local social networks. Respect for the partnership relationship that has been built over time required this debate. This moment is thus an opportunity for us to discuss openly and transparently, involving institutions and society, and taking into account the history of the evolution of the legislation and commitments assumed, this amendment to the IPSS Statute. The proposed amendments presented by the PS seek to correct contradictions in the Government's diploma, such as inconsistencies in the role of guardianship, increase transparency and rigour of what the relationship between the State and the institutions should be and introduce aspects of innovation and adaptation of the IPSS Statute dating from the 1980s. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Thirdly, for the Socialist Party it is very clear and it is essential that we do not at any time confuse the deepening of the relationship and cooperation with the desponsibility of the State of social functions to which it is constitutionally and legally bound. It is not thus confused in this debate partnership with deresponsibility, autonomy with a lack of rigor, a new paradigm with retrogression. This request for Parliamentary review of the PS and the amendments which we are going to present open the debate. We hope that the debate will be able to come out with an amendment to the Statute of the IPSS which is more, more rigorous, more capable of strengthening the responses and effectiveness of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u262	Mr David Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Decree-Law we are considering today from the authorship of the PSD Government / CDS, amends the Statute of IPSS and reveals clearly what this right-wing policy wants to do with the State and the State. With this Decree-Law, the PSD and the CDS create conditions for the governmentalization of the principles of action of the institutions without taking into account their diversity of fields of action, transmitting responsibilities whose competence is of the State, in particular its social functions, to the private institutions of social solidarity, to the framework of the Constitution. To be clear, nothing moves the CFP against the merit of these institutions, on the contrary. The PCP fights, and has always been beaten, by a network of public services with quality, universal and proximity to all citizens. We consider the action of these institutions of greater importance to complement public networks in health, education and social protection, among others, public networks to which the State is constitutionally obliged. This position advocates equal access to equipment in a network capable of meeting the needs of the population. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Member, we must be strict — what is being appreciated here is not the object of these institutions, but the relationship that the State establishes with them. In good rigour, the restricted scope of action for the Decree-Law to be considered refers, subjecting its action to the guiding principles of social economy as defined in Law No. 30 / 2013, approved by the PSD and the CDS, is a very reduced nature as regards the principles that guide the diversity of existing institutions, which constitutes an attempt to governmentalize unacceptable, as well as the statutory delimitation of the IPSS imposed by the same Decree represents an interference in the life of the entities that must be subject to their statutes and to the participation of their partners. In short, we are before a Decree which clearly shows a segmentation and a delimitation of the institutions covered. It is clear that, in the first note, the Government intends to condition the principles of action of many institutions organized in a broader associative logic and based on organized and voluntary action to defend interests and specific rights of sectors of the population, which, at the same time, provide social solidarity in the lack of an adequate public network, such as associations of elderly people, reformers or defence of sectoral promotion policies. It is clear that, in a second note, the path initiated by the Socialist Party, with the transfer of strategic and fundamental equipment for the State to assume its responsibilities, is now an in-depth path with legislation that includes the privatization of important social functions of the State and the adoption of care and charitable pension policies, transferring responsibilities and competences to the IPSS, pretending to intervene with less financial means of the State, subjecting them to forms of business management. And all this at the expense of the voluntary availability of its leaders and without taking into account the rights of the workers of the IPSS and the needs of those who need the support of these institutions. It is clear from a final note that the Government, with the approval of this Decree-Law, which amends and delimits the statutes of the IPSS and the pursuit of this policy, deceives the institutions, creating the illusion that, through a social economy protectorate, they can replace the State without economic constraints and contrary to its purpose expressed in the moral duty of justice and solidarity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u264	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members : The CDS-PP appreciates this legislative initiative, which allows us to clarify some questions and even leave a question to the Socialist Party itself. In fact, this amendment to the IPSS Statute is in line with what all previous governments have done. in this regard, legislation has always been made by the governments in force rather than by the Assembly of the Republic. There is no innovative aspect here. Ms Catarina Marcelino, Mrs Marcelino, the Government acts within the law within its powers, which in this case are even subject to the decision of the Assembly of the Republic. If you remember - and here I am allowing myself to correct Mr David Costa's delay - the Basics of Social Economy Act was passed in this Parliament not only by the PSD and the CDS, but by unanimity of all parliamentary groups. And it has an inserted standard which says that the government will legislate in the various areas on the basis of this Basic Law adopted here. And that's what the government did. The Government therefore acts following the unanimous mandate given to it by this Parliament. More: the Government does not innovate, Mrs Deputy — and there I could find some meaning to the Socialist Party’s criticism — if the Government had created a new Statute for IPSS. No, the Government has taken up a Statute which is 31 years old and has only updated standards of the same to two elements: one, the commandments arising from the Basic Law; two, the evolution that society has had, that the social sector had at the beginning of the 31 years, the new modernity of the social sector. in doing so, the government did not innovate, adopted and acted within what its mandate is. And with these concerns, because although the amendments have transvasted throughout several standards of the various diplomas, what we have basically is: firstly, to open the activity of the IPSS to new socio-economic realities, with the care of classifying them as dependents and derivatives and never as principal activity; secondly, and extremely relevant, to introduce greater transparency, greater democratity, greater legitimacy to the governance of the IPSS, greater transparency in their accounts, in their governance, in their electors, in the duration of their mandates, in the forms and means of removal of the IPSS. Therefore, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, we believe that the government, which did not do so alone, has done well in this matter. The honourable Member spoke about the need for a wide-ranging public debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u266	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u267	I'm done now, Mr. President. This debate was held with the CNIS (National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions ) and the Union of Portuguese Mercy, therefore with the legitimate representatives of all associations of the social sector. I would just like to leave a question to Mrs Catarina Marcelino. The Socialist Party's draft amendments are welcome,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u268	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u269	... but would you like to know what the Socialist Party opposes in this diploma: the limit to the duration of mandates? To greater transparency and monitoring of IPSS accounts and its management acts? That is the big question and on that I would like to know the position of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u270	With no further entries, we move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who sign up more early and who avoid the game from getting to the end, because the Bureau has to move on to the next item on the agenda when there are no entries. For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the parliamentary appreciation that the Socialist Party requested from Decree-Law No 172 -A / 2014, more specifically on the Statute of the Institutions of Social Solidarity. 31 years have passed since the publication of the first statutes, which largely maintain its usefulness and its natural need. however, in 31 years, much changed in Portuguese society, much changed in the world and many were the new institutions and new answers that have emerged over these years. We recognize and cherish the important work that social economy institutions have done and that they provide daily to all Portuguese in the most different areas. The Portuguese fully trust these institutions of the social economy because they result from what is more genuine in the exercise of the citizenship of the Portuguese people. Mrs Catarina Marcelino, allow me to tell you that these amendments which have now been introduced have resulted in a wide dialogue between the representatives of the institutions of the social economy. The institutions have representatives, who are and are the entities with which the government has dialogued. These amendments to the Statutes aim to provide the institutions with new legal instruments to create better and more transparency in terms of finance, public money applied by the institutions; to introduce greater democracy and the limitation of mandates; and, among many other aspects, to create greater sustainability of the institutions. But the honourable Member mentioned what the representatives of her Government introduced and brought to the social economy sector. I can also point out that, daily, the State supports 580 000 people — children, young people, disabled people and the elderly — through the Social Emergency Programme ( PES ), through the institutions. The Government, in the 2015 State Budget, also entered into an amount of more than EUR 50 million for 2014, precisely for the conclusion of agreements to prevent the construction of equipment, as they were built in the time of the Socialist Government, without their cooperation agreements, leading to institutions of solidarity that act in good faith to remain in a situation of weak sustainability. Protocols were also concluded that allowed institutions to have a job forecast for the following years. A short time ago, the commitment to cooperation with the social and solidarity sector for 2015 was concluded, precisely to ensure that social economy institutions in 2015 and 2016 know what they have and what they have to support the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u272	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u273	I conclude now, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Basics of Social Economy Act which is in the essence of the Decree-Law here today, appreciated, was unanimously approved in this House. We all contributed, all the Members who were part of that working group, as well as all the institutions that did much to make it a reality. The social economy unites the Portuguese, because it is the essence of Portuguese citizenship. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u274	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : BE attaches great importance to the so-called social economy. We do not circumscribe the social economy—in fact, the Social Economy Basics Act itself does so—only IPSS, because there has to be, and there is, diversity in actions and even different legal forms in which the institutions fit themselves and also frameworks of various activities. So when we talk about social economy, we're not just talking about the IPSS and much less we're talking about a caretaker view of these same IPSSs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u276	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u277	We therefore recognise to the social economy its great role in society, but in this dimension, it is also insisting on the Social Economy Basics Act itself. Therefore, we do not subsidize activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u278	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u279	We also do not admit that, in the name of the value of the social economy, speaking of it in part, if we promote the civilizational retrogression in social support, which is what we believe can happen, because for us there must be solidarity, which is exactly contrary to assistanceism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u280	But this diploma has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u281	We understand that the social economy is not, at all, socialism, but must be a solidarity economy. This is the view we have about the social economy. The criticism we have been making to the government is precisely because the government often derogates from the institutions what its role is. We have also recently seen this and discussed this subject because of redundancies in social security when the argument, false — I say it in the presence of the Secretary of State — was also the handing over of many of the social security services to private institutions of social solidarity. So our vision is this. We participated in the discussion of the Basic Law with this view and we understand that this Decree should follow this Basic Law of Social Economy, but only makes changes to the Statute of the Special Institutions of Social Solidarity. in our perspective, it is little, there has to be an adequate social economy in all its dimensions. I end as I began: for us, the social economy is a solidarity economy. It cannot be the line that the Government has been developing from transforming this solidarity economy into charity and even assistanceism. This is the criticism we make. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u282	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by saying that, following the unanimous adoption of the Social Economy Basics Act in this House, the Government began the implementation of its mandate book, which was, in fact, well listed in that Law. in this sense, within the framework of the National Council for Social Economy, a deep debate began on the different codes that need to be reviewed, according to the approval of the new Basic Law of Social Economy. It is in this sense that we are here today, on a proposal from the Socialist Party, to consider the Statute of the IPSS ; it is in this sense that, still this week, the contributions of the National Council for the Social Economy to the revision of the code of cooperatives, whose debate we have announced from the outset was made not on the legislative initiative of the Government, but, as happened at the moment before, at the initiative of the different parliamentary groups, if they so understand; it is also in this sense that the legislative process of the revision of the Code of Mutual Associations. We are fulfilling the book of charges that has been committed to us, with the unanimous approval of the Basics of Social Economy Law. Obviously, there is a need to adapt a Statute that is 31 years old. There are those who think we must always change everything. We understand that the Statute that was made 31 years ago had, and continues to have, many issues that are important and that are not exceeded in time and that there are others that need to adapt to the new realities of the social economy, the social sector and solidarity. And that's what we did. It is good to say that the new Statute has a set of assumptions that have to do with the fact that we do not want to have a protective State, but a partner State, which has to do with the existence of greater rigor, transparency and greater demand, which are reflected in different and multiple articles of this new IPSS Statute. I would also like to say that our starting point was obviously not the point of arrival. We had a set of proposals on this subject, but because, within the framework of our mandate book, we had to discuss with the National Council for the Social Economy, with the National Confederation of Social Solidarity Institutions ( CNIS) and with the Union of Portuguese Mercy, of course, our point of arrival was of consensus and the two confederations that have to do with this matter gave their consent. I believe that the Government has not gone wrong and that it has been able to carry out the task that this House of the Republic has given it when it unanimously approved the Basics of Social Economy Law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few final words about the parliamentary appreciation presented by the Socialist Party. Mrs Catarina Marcelino, I am grateful for the intervention she has made and for the fact that the initiative that the Government has taken... in the end and after all, which the honourable Member is undermining are the institutions of solidarity! You have a problem with history: your proposals are 19 years late. In fact, in the cooperation pact signed by Mr. Eng.António Guterres, then Prime Minister, on 19 December 1996, with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, with the National Association of Freguesias, with the current CNIS, with the Union of Mercy and with the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, at the time the Government of then committed itself to reviewing the status of the IPPS. Now, 19 years later, they presented a set of proposals, which we will consider with all care, but which took 19 years to arrive, Mrs Deputy! Allow me to leave another note. It was good for the honourable Member to also say here in Parliament that the previous government has pushed many institutions in the social and solidarity sector for investments without ensuring the necessary cooperation agreement at the start. There are tens and dozens of institutions waiting for cooperation agreements because you have not guaranteed the conclusion of these agreements. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u284	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u285	Mr. President, in conclusion, let's go to the point.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u286	Just now?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u287	What is of interest is that the consensus that was possible in this Chamber with the Basics of Social Economy Law has been extended and there has been a deep debate on the Statute of the IPSS. We will evaluate the proposals put forward by the Socialist Party in the assurance that the social and solidarity sector, as an integral part of the social economy, has the promotion and recognition it deserves. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u288	Mrs. Members, having concluded this debate, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau with a proposal for an amendment and an addendum tabled by the Socialist Party on the Parliamentary Decree-Law, which goes down to 10. the Commission. We will move on to the next and final point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in draft law No 640 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extend the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and determine the reintegration of the Arsenal do Alfeite into the Navy organic ( PCP ) in conjunction with draft resolution No 1231 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the extinction of the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and its reintegration into the Marine Organic (BE). To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, first of all, to health all the Arsenalist workers and their union leaders, as well as the President of the Municipal Chamber of Almada, who are present in the galleries. The PCP brings back to plenary this proposal for the reintegration of the Arsenal do Alfeite into the Navy organic, with the extinction of this anonymous society in which they wanted to transform and maintain it until today. Let us talk about this again today and we will do it again as often as we need it. We will not give up on the agenda of the debate the issues of the situation and the future of the Arsenal do Alfeite. We will not allow ourselves to ignore the strategic character of the Arsenal, either at economic level, in a productive sector crucial to the country, such as the naval industry, either at the level of national defence, with everything that means the guarantee(or not) of the Portuguese Navy's operationality. We reaffirm what many have said so many times in charge of the Navy: there is no Arsenal without the Navy and there is no Navy without the Arsenal. And we will not accept this political hypocrisy of those who seek to condemn, in time, the Arsenal to a kind of slow and silent death of degradation and desertification. Since the transition from Arsenal to « SA », imposed five years ago by the PS / Socrates Government, nothing has been promised until today. No modernisation, no investment, no strengthening of means and capabilities. over years and years, the country has invested in the training of highly specialized technicians, with knowledge, experience and quality that "give letters" internationally. With the passage from Arsenal to “S. A. », hundreds of workers, more than half of those who were at work, were sent away from a service where they needed, where they are still needed today! Staff shortages are grueling and recognized by the hierarchy itself. In the face of this bleeding of first-water professionals, the response of the Government and the Administration was to close the Arsenal Training School of the Alfeite, where admissions had already been closed under the previous PSD / CDS Government. However, these Arpão and Trident submarines, which so many millions have given to some, were right there for Germany to do maintenance in the manufacturer instead of bringing work to the Arsenal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u290	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u291	While the government promised new markets in other countries, it was sending the Portuguese Navy to German shipyards! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening is a shame and irresponsibility, a crime against the economy and national sovereignty that cannot go unpunished. The Assembly of the Republic cannot fail to assume its responsibilities in resolving this problem. The reintegration of the Arsenal into the Navy's organics alone is not enough, but it is indispensable and urgent. It is necessary to modernize the Arsenal, restore it and develop its capabilities, resume the training and renewal of its frameworks, reopen its school and give full conditions to the Navy for the maintenance of its team. But first of all, it is necessary to put an end to this true policy of national treason with which they are trying to destroy the Arsenal of the Alfeite. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u292	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by greeting all the Arsenalists and the people of the district of Almada. The Arsenal do Alfeite is increasingly distant from its history, its competence, its technical excellence, which for decades made the pride of Arsenal, the country, the municipality of Almada and the district of Setúbal. When in 2009 the Arsenal do Alfeite went on to « SA », an anonymous company integrated in Empordef, we were told that this change was necessary in order to have a restructuring and modernization of the industrial apparatus not only to better meet the growing technical and technological requirements of the new ship, but also to put knowledge to the service of other potential domestic and international customers in competitive terms. These were exactly the words of the presentation of reasons for the diploma that would have to turn that company of excellence into a company « SA ». After six years, what we have is exactly a destroyed company, with a liability that has not increased but has not decreased, that has not been modernized and therefore ceased to have orders. As already stated here, ships and famous submarines, which could well be repaired there if the Alfeite had been modernized, are now going outside the country. Therefore, what happened was the dismantling of the production capacity of the Alfeite, it was the dismantling of the know-how. We know that many workers left the Alfeite, treading the grass for the last time with tears in their eyes, because they went to the pre-reform voluntarily obliged to do so. There has been no news, in addition to what was said by Mr Defense Minister about the order of a famous study, for which he has already paid €74 000, a famous "Mathew plan" that we do not know how it will end... The promises we have are, therefore, those of the continuing spatification of that company of such great importance. For this reason, we are presenting a draft resolution recommending to the Government the return of Arsenal do Alfeite to the direct administration of the State and the integration of its personnel into the Armed Forces regime and the regime of the contract of employment in public functions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u294	Mr Marcos Perestrello has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We consider that the business form is the most suitable for an entity with the nature of the Arsenal do Alfeite, because it allows it, in addition to ensuring the needs of the Navy, to seek, with more flexible forms of management, other markets that allow it to give various perspectives for the technological development and development of its own business, working for other marines. It was in this sense that the creation of the anonymous Arsenal of the Alfeite, SA, was carried out in order to thus seek to create conditions for the development of the business and, more effectively and efficiently, the Arsenal can provide essential services and first to the Portuguese Navy. The Arsenal of the Portuguese Navy Alfeite cannot be separated, and the appropriate formula is to maintain that connection. Looking at the main indicators of Arsenal do Alfeite in recent years, we have found that they are indeed worrying. Taking the years 2009 and 2010, in which Arsenal do Alfeite presented clearly positive results from that period, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the accumulation of losses and the negative results of each year were a reality. These results also correspond to a very significant disinvestment that the Government has made in the capacity to maintain and modernise marine vessels, and that is the way to correct. The tense relationship that exists today between the administration of the Arsenal do Alfeite and the Navy is a relationship that needs to be corrected. It is necessary to reverse the way for the management of the Arsenal do Alfeite and to deepen its connection with the Portuguese Navy, to have a more competent administration and to deepen these ties. But the path cannot be backward and cannot remove from the Alfeite the possibility of further technological development and of seeking to exploit other markets. The Government must intervene in this matter. I don't think the way is the one that PCP and Block defend. If the Government does not intervene in this matter, if it does not catch up, the Arsenal do Alfeite will make an inevitable way to its destruction, which will be, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a crime of litre-fatherhood. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u296	Mr Bruno Vitorino has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking today about the Arsenal do Alfeite. This is a yard which is a national and international reference in the construction, repair and maintenance of military vessels, but also in the construction of merchant ships. To continue to be that reference, something naturally has to change. The yard needs the country and it needs our Navy. It is an entity with history, with a rich history, that has for many years had good results and has excellent workers, indeed specialized workers who have helped, and much, in the formation of many other workers in the shipbuilding industry and in the national metalmechanics. Mr. Marcos Perestrello, in 2009 the then Government of the Socialist Party extinguished the Arsenal do Alfeite and created the Arsenal do Alfeite company, SA. The government's goal at the time was to adopt a broader investment plan, which, in the best manner of the Socialist Party, did not emerge from the role. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u298	In fact, it is important to remember that not only did it not invest, as it diverted from the Arsenal's funds more than 17 million euros to the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo. He did not solve the problem of the Shipkeepers, but sharpened and decapitalized the Alfeite further. The financial results of 2012 and 2013 were not, in fact, the best, so we hope that those of 2014 were different. When this government took office, it inherited a country in pre-banking and in full international crisis. In view of the reality of the Arsenal, action was needed. On the one hand, despite the difficulties and context, commercial contacts were made to increase the customer portfolio. Some continue to do so and even yielded results, such as contact with the Royal Moroccan Navy. It will also be done in Arsenal to adapt the boats acquired to the Danish Navy. On the other hand, the Government has commissioned a strategic review study of the Arsenal. The PCP, with this diploma, intends to reintegrate the Arsenal into the Navy organic and the Left Block, not to stay behind in the extreme competition, has hastened to present another diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u299	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u300	The PCP and Block know everything, they don't need to study anything, they have absolute truths about everything, they have ideological prejudice about a number of solutions, but we don't have. The studies are even useful for this, i.e. to substantiate the political decision. That is what the government did, while trying to give sustainability to that company.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u301	Whoever doesn't want to decide does studies for a long time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u302	With great tranquility, I wanted to say that we want the best for the national interest, that a reasoned decision be made after the study is presented and discussed with all partners, that it is a solution that best serves the country, the region, the municipality of Almada and, in particular, the Arsenal and its workers and that this solution arises without any ideological prejudice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u303	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I congratulate the Communist Party and the Left Block on the presentation of these two initiatives. In 2013, if I am not mistaken, we discussed similar proposals. I am not one of those who think this is repetitive; I think it is always important to accompany, in this specific area, what happens to our public companies. I therefore think it is important that this matter be discussed. I'm going to repeat what Mr Bruno Dias said two years ago. As you know, it was not our government that adopted this business model for the Arsenal do Alfeite, but at the time, I thought that was the best solution. Every time I visited the Arsenal do Alfeite, both integrated in the Defense Commission and alone, I realized that the previous model was not the model that its workers wanted. As they said, well, it was a model that was neither flesh nor fish. That is, they were not civil servants, but they were also not considered as employees of a private company. They were in a hybrid situation, which did not satisfy the workers themselves at all. If I understand correctly, the proposals of the CFP and the Left Block advocate a return to the previous situation. I understand your concerns. at this time, the Arsenal do Alfeite is located on the perimeter of the state, is a state company, 100 % of the state, and the PCP and the Block are afraid that, in future projects, as in this study that was commissioned, it can be thought of alternatives in relation to this, so the return to the situation in which it was previously a guarantee to avoid such evolution. I understand this concern, but it does not resolve the fundamental question. And the previous situation of the Arsenal do Alfeite was not positive for the workers themselves. That is what we have repeatedly heard in our visits to the Arsenal do Alfeite. We know that no party has any doubt as to the importance of the Arsenal do Alfeite with regard to the maintenance of the ships of the Navy. It is also true—and it has been said here by all the honourable Members. Members — that there has been a substantial reduction in the number of vessels in the Navy, which have been targets for recovery in the Arsenal do Alfeite in recent years, either because of financial problems, it is true, either by choice of simpler maintenance. But it is also not true that the Arsenal of the Alfeite is stopped. That's not true! The Arsenal do Alfeite and its workers have made absolutely remarkable services for the recovery of the ships of the Navy. I think it changed your mind that Arsenal's stopped, but I'd like to deny that. They've done a great job. I myself visited the Arsenal two years ago and saw the absolutely remarkable recovery that they made of an old corveta and also of older ships. Regarding the project that was discussed here about the attempt to find other customers than the Navy to ensure jobs and the best development of the Arsenal do Alfeite is partly limited, certainly, and was not the desired. But an effort has been made and, as we know, the Moroccan Navy is maintaining part of its ships—it is a simple maintenance, it is true! — in the Arsenal of the Alfeite. That's also done and it's a novelty. The results were negative in 2012 and 2013 — EUR 5 million — and we are responsible for this management of this government, but it seems to me that, although the data are not yet completed, the 2014 figures will be substantially better than those of 2012 and 2013. I apologize, Mr President, for being beyond the time I have available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u305	Yes, sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u306	by numbers of the Military Programming Act, several maintenance projects will pass through the Arsenal do Alfeite, and this is essential to be mentioned here. However, there are some maintenances — and I conclude, Mr President — that the Arsenal do Alfeite still cannot do. Mr Bruno Dias spoke of the maintenance of submarines. I am not even Mr Deputy, a specialist in this matter, but it seems that this type of maintenance to which our submarines were subjected could not be done in Arsenal because he still did not have that capacity and was of such an important order that it was actually necessary to send to the German shipyards. We do not know whether, in the future, part of this maintenance can be done, because some equipment has been invested through offsets in the Arsenal of the Alfeite. I've also said that two years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u307	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u308	I will finish, Mr. President. The desirable would be for some of this maintenance to be done, obviously, in the shipyards. The current statute may serve, if empowered, the workers, the Navy, the Arsenal do Alfeite and the municipality of Almada. Mr President, I have finished — I have forgotten to do so at the beginning — by welcoming the presence in the galleries of the President of the Mayor of Almada and of the people accompanying him. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u309	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In order not to fall into the same mistake, I shall just begin by congratulating you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on Greens, I welcome all the arsenalists and also Mr. President of the Chamber of Almada, who was interested in attending this discussion so relevant to the municipality of Almada. I wanted to start by saying what, finally, we all know. We are a sea country, and a sea country must not, nor can, devalue its naval industry and cannot devalue its ability to build and repair ships. It seems that what we have been watching over the years on a path of dismantling companies as significant as the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros and the Arsenal do Alfeite leaves us, of course, a huge margin of concern and shows that governments have not had a strategic vision of this matter and of our connection to the sea, too. Another note that I would like to leave with the Arsenal workers. We all know they have a know-how that can't be ignored or so little wasted. Now, let us afford to exempt workers, whether through mobility or through pre-reform, whatever it is, it is a strategic mistake for the country. The formation of these and other workers would be, in our view, a productive investment for the country, if doing what is fundamental: investing significantly and with a strategic view in this industry. I would also like to remind you that some Mr. Members considered that the entrepreneurship of Arsenal, the creation of ‘SA’ and its integration into EMPORDEF was a sea of roses. They said there were new markets, new customers, but that wonder didn't happen. Normally this advertising is held for so many sectors and then nothing happens like this. That is, we have already witnessed the destruction of various sectors, in which they promised illusions that never happened. So this is perhaps a warning we left here. Finally, we believe that the Arsenal do Alfeite cannot be shut off from the Navy, contrary to what several Mrs admitted. Members in your speeches. Arsenal was born into the Navy, is specialized in the Navy, the Navy needs it and it is in the Navy that must be reintegrated. Let me now make a very special note to Mr Rebel: if we are concerned about the statutes and even about the positioning or the situation of the workers, nothing like involving workers directly and deeply in the decisions. The case is always resolved in a more positive way. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u311	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for a short time available for 31 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to say that it is truly regrettable that five years after the SA and what has been happening in Arsenal this past year of the Legislature Mr. Members of the majority and the PS appear with this speech of « see us going », as if we were in 2009. We're not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if they've done it! in the interventions we heard, it failed to explain in what book it is written that the Marine Alphite Arsenal cannot work for other countries and other entities. In what book is it written that the technical, investment and modernization capacity could not be guaranteed within the Navy if there were political will to do so?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u313	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u314	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with great calmness and great interest in reading the studies, they are pushing the Arsenal for degradation and dismantling in a truly criminal way. Mr. João Rebelo, the technical capacity that Arsenal had not in relation to submarines, nor did he have it in relation to the frigates MEKO or the Dutch frigates. What you do not know is learned! in maintenance contracts, it should have been stipulated that this work was guaranteed for Arsenal, and it did not remain. That is why EUR 10 million, plus VAT, are going to Germany instead of being employed in the Arsenal of the Alfeite, because this matter was not guaranteed in a timely manner. Was the extinction of Empordef, after all, not supposed to bring the problem to « yes or soups », or internalizes, or is it extinct and privatized? Oh, my God! After all, what do you want to do with Arsenal? Five years later you don't know? Is it or not true that the famous study by Dr. Augustus Matthew has already been completed and is going to flood somewhere in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u315	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u316	I will finish, Mr. President. The Arsenal workers cannot remain in this situation of constant indefinition and of no exit, to see the time pass, the yard is degrading, not entering new people, who need the Arsenal, and should return to those who have been run in an absolutely unacceptable way, as the previous government has done and that this government and this majority have reiterated. We're not doomed on this path, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as they're trying to impose it on the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u317	For a second intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor for 24 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u318	Mr President, my first word is for Mr Bruno Vitorino: the Left Bloc will bring here the necessary legislative initiatives. I think you should get rid of that prejudice, because it's not good for you. in fact, what is bad is that the PSD does not bring to the plenary the subjects that are interested in discussion, and in this particular case it should already have brought. You spend your life with the history of guilt: « it was not us, it was the others, the decision is 2009, it is perfectly identified ». Well, but you're in government for four years! After all, they are waiting for a famous Mateus Plan, for which they paid €74 000—there is money for these studies! — when they should have taken attitudes. And it's been noticed that this model doesn't work, it's been noticed that you've lost know-how, that you haven't restructured, that you haven't modernized and that you're not going there. It has also been noticed that you want to repeat the "film" of the Viana do Castelo Naval Estaleiros - that is the question - because you have the prejudice that what is public is bad. Mrs. Members, we understand the opposite, we understand that the best business for the country, for the workers, for the municipality of Almada, for the district of Setúbal is to resume the Arsenal of the Alfeite to the custody of the Navy, reintegrate the workers and make, yes, a plan of orders and open to the market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u319	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u320	... because, as has already been said, it is not written anywhere that, in the protection of the State, cannot be opened to other markets. That's your invention, that's your prejudice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u321	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u322	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u323	Mr President, we have no knowledge and the study on the future of the Arsenal do Alfeite has not been delivered to the House, which was mentioned in this debate. We have already made a request to the Government for this document to be made to Parliament, it is unacceptable that it has not yet done so, so we request the good offices of the Bureau to request this request from the CFP to request the study on the future of the Arsenal of Alfeite to be provided and the document to be delivered to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-28.u324	You will certainly be duly referred, Mr President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 29 January, and will have the following agenda: 1 — General discussion of Bill No 276 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Establishment of a regional tax system ( ALRAM ) ; 2 — Joint assessment, in general, of the proposals of lein. 228 / XII ( 3 ) ( a ) — National strategy for the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse ( ALRAM ), 233 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child ( ALRAM ), 109 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Greater protection of maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ) and 139 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Creation of the child's observatory ( ALRAM ) ; 3 — General discussion of draft laws No 698 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Ensures the right of access to goods of first need water and energy ( sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 96 of 26 July — Law of the Essential Public Services) ( BE) ; 4 — Joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 759 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills ( CAPC) ( The Greens) and 758 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — revokes the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills and ensures the cancellation of its effects ( CFP ) ; 5 — Assessment of petition No 347 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by the National Federation of Teachers ( FENPROF ), with the title We will not allow the destruction of the CGA! , requesting the Assembly of the Republic to conduct an audit, supervised by the Court of Auditors, to the General Board of Appeals in order to ascertain responsibilities and to find solutions for their sustainability ; 6 — Assessment of petition No 411 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Prisoner Support Association ( APA ), asking the Assembly of the Republic for the approval of an amnesty law and for forgiveness of sentences. Mrs. Members, I would like to remind you that, on the occasion of the Evocation of the Holocaust Memory Day, which is 70 years old, there will be room for the representation of the piece The hands of Abraham Zacut, of Sttau Monteiro, by the Club of Plastic and Dramatic Expression of the Grouping of Schools No. 1 of Portalegre, in the Senate Hall, immediately after the closure of our work. I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 18 hours and 51 minutes.]]
