ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 14 hours and 39 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Our next item is the general debate on the proposal for a law No 335 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Transposing Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, establishes the legal framework for non-judicial dispute resolution mechanisms; Discussion, in general, of Bill No. 337 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences in criminal matters imposing imprisonment or other measures deprived of liberty for the purposes of the implementation of those judgments in the European Union, as well as the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of judgments and decisions relating to parole for the purpose of monitoring surveillance and alternative sanctions by transposing Framework Decisions Nos. 2008 / 909 / JAI, of the Council, and 2008 / 947 / JAI, of both 27 November 2008 ; Discussion, in general, of Bill No 336 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ; Evaluation of the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ) ; Joint appreciation of draft resolution No 1483/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the exercise of the profession of Criminologist ( PSD ) of petition No 261 / XII ( 2. a ) — Submitted by Vítor Miguel Pereira da Silva and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to be recognized the profession of criminologist in Portugal, and the draft resolutions 1542 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the creation of the criminologist profession ( CDS-PP ) and 1549 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recognition and regulation of the criminologist profession ( BE); Assessment of petition No 473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering ( SUPERA), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish legislation on residences and improve the care provided to persons with serious motor disabilities; Joint assessment of petition No 450 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Paulo Jorge Melich Farinha and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to discuss the possibility of State intervention for the establishment of a public service for the carriage of passengers by ferryboat between Madeira and the continent and draft resolution No 1546 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ferryboat transport between the Continent and Madeira ( BE ) ; Assessment of petition No 452 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by SINTAP ( Union of Public Administration Workers and Public Entities), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to take urgent measures against the application of the social security requalification scheme. Before we begin our work, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to proceed with the reading of the file which, however, has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions 1540 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen measures to prevent, control and treat diabetes ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1541 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard specialized artistic education through the stability of its financing model and transfers to educational institutions ( PS ), 1542 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — On the creation of the criminologist profession ( CDS-PP ), 1543 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by rejecting the so-called Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement ( TTIP ) ( PCP ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 1544 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the institution of May 17 as the national day against discrimination against lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersex ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1545 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Financing of artistic schools by the State budget guaranteeing the right to artistic education of all students ( BE), 1546 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ferryboat transport between the Continent and Madeira ( BE ), 1547 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures for the recognition and protection of persons with fibromyalgia ( BE), 1548 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to combat precariousness and amends the rules of employment stages ( BE), 1549 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recognition and regulation of the criminologist profession ( BE) and 1550 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ensuring a new control paradigm for the animal population ( The Greens) ; Motions for resolutions 117 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on Operational Unit of Oriented Electronic Governance for Policies of the United Nations University in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 23 May 2014, which falls to 2. the Commission with connection to 8.a, and 118 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations University on the Creation, Operation and Location of the Operational Unit of E-Government Oriented to Policies of the United Nations University in Guimarães, Portugal, signed in Lisbon on 23 May 2014, which falls to 2. the Commission with connection to 8.a ; Projects of lein.os 1007 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amends the designation of the Union Freguesias de Lagos ( São Sebastião and Santa Maria ) in the municipality of Lagos, to São Gonçalo de Lagos ( PS, PSD, CDS-PP and BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1008 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the modernization of official animal collection centres and municipal veterinary services ( CFP ), 1009 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens), 1010 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — prohibits and regulates the use of employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +( BE ), 1011 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — To create a budget which no longer imposes austerity on the country ( the ninth amendment to Law No 91 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 — Budget Framework Act) ( BE ) and 1012 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of compulsive slaughter of animals at collection centres ( BE); Parliamentary assessments No 146 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 86 / 2015 of 21 May, which defines the legal regime of specialized medical training with a view to obtaining the degree of specialist and establishes the general principles to which the respective procedure ( PCP ), 147 / XII ( 4 ) must be followed. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 92 / 2015 of 29 May, which establishes the multi-municipal water and sanitation system of the Coastal Centre of Portugal, constitutes the water company of the Coastal Centre, SA, and assigns to it the granting of the exploitation and management of the multi-municipal water and sanitation system of the Coastal Centre of Portugal, 148 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 93 / 2015 of 29 May, which establishes the multi-municipal water and sanitation system of northern Portugal, constitutes the North Waters company, SA, and assigns to it the exploitation and management of the multi-municipal water and sanitation system of northern Portugal and 149 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 94 / 2015 of 29 May, which establishes the multi-municipal water and sanitation system of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, constitutes the company Waters of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, SA, and assigns to it the granting of the exploitation and management of the multi-municipal water and sanitation system of Lisbon and Tejo Valley. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the first item on the agenda, which is, as I have already mentioned, the general discussion of the proposal for law No 335 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Transposing Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, establishes the legal framework for non-judicial settlement mechanisms for consumer disputes. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 335 / XII ( 4. ( a ) is intended to transpose into the national legal order Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes. On the one hand, it sets out the principles and rules to be followed by the functioning of alternative consumer dispute resolution bodies, designated by RAL entities (alternative dispute resolution), and on the other hand sets out the legal framework of non-judicial consumer dispute resolution entities in Portugal, which operate on the network specifically of consumer conflict arbitration centres authorized by the member of the Government responsible for the area of justice. In accordance with Article 2 ( 1 ). the, this bill will only apply to procedures for the extrajudicial resolution of national and cross-border disputes promoted by a RAL entity where they are indexed by a consumer against a supplier of goods or service provider who comply with contractual obligations arising from contracts for the purchase and sale or provision of services concluded between a supplier of goods or supplier of services and consumers established or resident in Portugal or the European Union. It should be noted that the so-called services of general interest, without an economic nature, health services provided to patients by industry professionals are expressly excluded from the scope of this diploma, to assess, maintain or rehabilitate their health status, and public providers of supplementary or higher education, disputes between suppliers of goods or service providers against consumers and consumer procedures submitted to complaints services, or of an equal nature, of suppliers of goods, services or regulated authorities which are wholly competent, managed by themselves. In addition, requirements are laid down which harmonise the means of RAL : conciliation, mediation and arbitration. On the other hand, entities established in national territory that wish to promote the resolution of consumer disputes through a RAL procedure may request their inclusion in the list of RAL entities, and this list should be communicated to the European Commission by 9 January 2016. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, also with regard to institutionalised arbitration, the fact is that it is expected that, in the training of requests for the establishment of new centres for consumer conflict arbitration, the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs should be issued, which is extremely important for the strengthening of the rights of these citizens. In short, the transposition of this Directive provides an opportunity for the adoption of a more consistent and more systematic legal framework, for the benefit of the citizen and for the benefit of the consumer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, he took the presidency of the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u5	Madam Minister for Justice, I would like to congratulate you and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. The Bureau has not yet registered, so I ask the parliamentary groups to register their Members so that we can continue the debate. [[Pause.]] Mr. Paulo Simões Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u6	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The resolution of consumer disputes has always deserved special attention from this bench. In fact, I would like to remind you that it was during a PSD government that the extrajudicial settlement of disputes experienced the first developments in Portugal, and that it was in 1989 that the first arbitration centre for consumer conflicts was established. In fact, extrajudicial resolution of consumer conflicts is extremely important because it is accessible, speedy and very low costs, or free, in some cases, allowing the exercise of justice to be adversely affected, in addition to the provision of legal information to consumers, before the use of conciliation, mediation and arbitration. The adoption of Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, reaffirmed the importance of protecting the economic interests of European consumers through the use of alternative justice mechanisms. It is this directive that the Government intends to transpose into the domestic legal order, and that is, I do not want to make this clear, one of the first European governments to do so - and I therefore do not want to stop complimenting the Government and in particular the Minister of Justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u7	in this legislative initiative, harmonised quality requirements are established for alternative dispute resolution entities and their procedures in order to ensure that, after their implementation, consumers have access to extrajudicial mechanisms of high quality, transparent, effective and equitable resolution, regardless of where the European Union resides, contributing to the smooth functioning of the internal market. It is also proposed to establish the consumer arbitration network, which integrates the centres of arbitration of consumer conflicts authorized to continue the information, mediation, conciliation and arbitration activities of these disputes, promoting the integrated functioning of these entities and adherence to the same functioning logic, with the use of common systems and the implementation of uniform procedures. As the alternative dispute resolution is a dejudicial exercise of justice, which enables extrajudicial solutions of consumer conflicts to be achieved for the PSD, it makes every sense to transpose this Directive into our legal order and thus contribute to increasing consumer and professional confidence and to the development of the common market. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u8	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u9	Madam President, Minister for Justice, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU is invoked, strengthening the protection of European consumers with resources to alternative means of justice and thus establishing requirements for entities in the alternative dispute resolution and at the same time procedures. in this sense, it is proposed the creation of a network of consumer arbitration, involving arbitration centres, in a common logic of operation, and opening, at the same time, its scope, with the exception, as the Minister has already saved, health, education and services of general non-economic interest, although this formulation has been considered by some, as you know, reasonably imprecise and perhaps may be improved. Without prejudice to other proposed amendments made by consulted entities, some of which have already been integrated into this initiative remain a few reservations, particularly with regard to Article 10. o — Effectiveness and accessibility of alternative dispute resolution procedures, which should include forecasting at least a maximum rate on arbitration issues and clear forecasting of freeness for negotiation and mediation. in Article 11. o — Refusal of treatment of a dispute, despite some already integrated corrections, there is still some discretion of the entities or even the non-definition of the likely limits in points (b) and (d), so we believe that this is a matter to be corrected. With regard to Articles 8. o — Independence and impartiality and 9. o — Transparency, these are very correct principles, which we can only welcome, but we put the fundamental problem that is that of the financing model to ensure all these requirements. In fact, several authentic information centres have been closed to the consumer because of the lack of means and one of the remaining issues on this initiative is indeed the financing model that can sustain and validate the principles and standards enshrined herein. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u10	Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u11	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are European countries justifying standardisation, justifying this Directive, Portugal is not included, since the Portuguese system is practically identical to what the Directive today imposes with minimum harmonisation to the different countries. Portugal has been endowed with a system which, today, has practically been accepted in European terms in this Directive for many years. It's a system that works well, it's a low-cost system, it's a speedy system and it's a system that allows the courts to deviate processes that could lead to the fundamental work of the courts. however, there are three points which, on our part, would justify, even because we are faced with a minimum harmonisation, that the government should intervene in this area. The first point has to do with the public funding of these centres, and at least it should be set out here as the criterion. Today, it is common for justice to have funding, another financing on the part of the economy, without knowing the criterion that justifies the exploitation of this type of financing. The State has an important role here and, in a law with this dignity, it would justify - if there were at least one standard regarding the State's commitment and its criterion. A second point has to do with the obligation of the State to ensure intervention throughout the national territory in addition. Where, because of the geographical area, there are areas not covered, this will create situations where there are consumers who can use this system and there are others who only have recourse to court. Therefore, it would be justified that the State had an important role here to ensure that, in addition to the areas of the country not covered, there was an intervention either through the Directorate-General for Justice or through the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs, to ensure that the entire national territory was covered. Today, in some cases, this is not the case, because there is still a system, but it may have happened that there are areas of the country not covered. Finally, the Minister, Article 24. o — Transitional rules, on our part, should be improved, insofar as we give guarantees to the existing arbitration centres, mediation centres or information centres that the dossier was transitional to this system, which would be a fluid system, without costs and with reduced bureaucracy, and now will make it a new inscription, possibly at some rates, seems to us that it is inadequate. Therefore Article 24. it should be improved in the sense that this transition was made almost automatically, with a posteriori supervision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u12	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u13	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: The objections we have to this bill are not as much as this or that aspect of the bill, nor the way it is drafted, are objections to the substantive option, and these are also known by the Minister. We do not share this euphoria, which is not exclusive of this government, since previous governments of the Socialist Party already shared it in relation to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, and we do not share that euphoria in relation to the results that can produce above all in unbalanced relations between the parties. We are currently dealing with a bill that takes care of the relations established between individuals and suppliers of goods or services, in fact, individuals who do not act in the context of their commercial activity. This is the definition of consumer that is provided for in this bill and which, necessarily, is not a balanced relationship. in fact, a relationship between a particular individual and a supplier of goods or services is a particularly unbalanced relationship, even because the framework of the consumer conflicts that are taking place today is often from some massification to the means that are used for the conclusion / realization of the trade relationship. The problem that is being raised here, Mrs Minister, is that alternative dispute resolution mechanisms are mechanisms that do not imply, on the contrary, allow the removal of the application of the law for the use of other rules. What is more, we had the discussion of the bill on voluntary arbitration in which this was one of the issues that was put. We now have a problem here: we are, in turn, confronted with the discussion and adoption of laws aimed at protecting consumer rights and ensuring certain types of minimum guarantees. In addition, we have passed some laws, one of them in 2012, relative to e-commerce, which aimed to defend consumers in the context of electronic commerce, establishing a set of minimum requirements and guarantees regarding the use of electronic mechanisms for the conclusion of trade relations, but the fact is that we are then confronted with a system of dejudicialization which can lead to the removal of those laws which are approved for consumer protection. Therefore, this is another argument that makes us very suspicious of these foundations, which, moreover, have already been brought here by the PSD, as regards the advantages of dejudicialization and the advantages of insistence on alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. We continue to consider that if the law defends consumers, the conflicts resulting from consumption must be discussed in the courts which apply these laws that defend consumers, and the answer, Mr. Paulo Ribeiro, is that if the courts are more expensive, then the costs will be reduced; if the courts take longer, then the means of justice will be strengthened; if the courts are more difficult to access by the people, then do not close the courts and allow the people, in this case, more easy access to the courts in order to enforce the laws that seek to defend the rights of consumers. We refer consumer conflicts to alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, which do not or do not guarantee the application of consumer rights laws, is not a good way to say that it is intended to defend consumer rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u14	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u15	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen, indeed, in recent years, a clear development of alternative dispute resolution means, and it is certainly in the area of consumption that its implementation has become more acute, even giving priority to it in its development. Now, with this diploma, which is consistent, as you all well know, in the transposition of a directive, the legal framework of the extrajudicial resolution mechanisms of consumer disputes is thus enshrined. A reading of the Directive enables us to understand the various objectives underlying its approval: from the attenuating of disparities in Member States in the level of coverage, quality and disclosure of alternative dispute resolution, by seeking to eliminate this barrier to offshore purchases, to the objective of eliminating the competitive disadvantage for traders established in Member States where there is insufficient access to these procedures, as well as the intention to create a single entry point for the extrajudicial resolution of disputes on line, through alternative dispute resolution entities, which are now interconnected on a platform and can thus perform their functions with quality throughout the European Union. In short, it seeks to value and implement harmonised rules of impartiality, independence and transparency, as Mrs Cecilia Honorio said, as well as speed, accessibility and fairness mechanisms in procedures. That is why we agree with the Supreme Council of Justice ( CSM), when it says that the European Union has undoubtedly sought to strengthen consumer confidence in the internal market, in particular with regard to electronic commerce, and to realize the potential and opportunities of cross-border and online trade. We recognize, of course, the existence of criticism, which essentially affects alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, in fact, noted Mr João Oliveira's intervention. But, in relation to these criticisms, I have no doubt to say that these mechanisms, which, in some cases, compete and, in others, complement the activities of the courts, are presented as a new way for the realization of the right of access to justice, which does not in any way question the validity, necessity and adequacy of the judicial process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u17	More: the RAL processes, i.e. alternative dispute resolution, due to their characteristics of informalization, search for agreement, speed, tendingly lower cost and less personal and social stigmatization, are procedures conducive to greater demand for legal protection by citizens, which often do not appear in the classic model of courts and even fail to respond to the aggressions of their rights. Therefore, by ensuring access to justice, these mechanisms actually contribute to the strengthening of citizenship and the rule of law. Having said that, and without prejudice to any changes in speciality, it is still to address clarifications that may eventually make sense or even respond to the doubts that have been felt here, I will conclude by saying that we cannot fail to recognize, at this site, the very positive contribution of the solutions that have been found, both in safeguarding consumer rights, to the alternative resolution of disputes, as well as in justice and the adequacy of the procedures in question. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u18	The Minister for Justice has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u19	Madam President, first of all, my compliments. Mrs Cecilia Honorio, since 1985 there has been a network of such centres. I have taken good note of your reflections and I want to tell you that, of course, there is openness to clarify all these doubts, which, I believe, are doubts arising from a non-comparison with other alternative means of dispute resolution, basic regimes that we have already approved. Mr Fernando Serrasqueiro, the criteria are right here. Finally, Mr João Oliveira, if you have not noted, this is two framework adaptation decisions. in addition, we reiterate, of course, all the availability for clarification of any doubts that may arise. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u20	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, I give the general conclusion of the debate on the proposal for a law No 335 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), thanking the presence of the members of the Government. We have followed to the second point of our agenda, with the general assessment of Bill No. 337 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences in criminal matters which impose prison sentences or other measures deprived of liberty for the purposes of the implementation of those judgments in the European Union, as well as the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of judgments and decisions relating to parole for the purpose of monitoring surveillance and alternative sanctions, transposing Framework Decisions Nos 2008 / 909/JHA, of the Council, and 2008 / 947 / JAI, of both 27 November 2008. To present the bill, she has once again the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are again within the framework of international judicial cooperation, which is so lacking in times when economic crimes in general require the strengthening of such cooperation. in this bill, we introduce a new mechanism for international judicial cooperation in criminal matters, based on mutual recognition and ensuring respect for the rights inherent in criminal proceedings. Thus, where a criminal conviction is given in a Member State of the European Union, the penalty applied to the defendant may be carried out in another Member State by means of a specific, simple and speedy procedure consisting of direct transmission between judicial authorities, in strict respect for the principle of the separation of powers. The same is true of decisions on the granting of conditional freedom. The procedure shall be provided with all guarantees, and the application shall be accompanied by the certificate of the judicial decision whose enforcement is intended and which constitutes an indispensable condition for the consent of the convicted person. As regards decisions which are sent to Portugal for its implementation, its conformity with the fundamental principles in criminal matters shall be assessed, in particular, if the facts in question are also a crime in the light of Portuguese law and if the penalty is not prescribed. If it is found that these principles are not respected, recognition of the judicial decision is refused. Since the sentence was recognised, it was then carried out, establishing that it should take place in the nearest prison establishment of the place of residence or of the last residence in Portugal of the convicted person. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parts of this process are in line with a broad and comprehensive spectrum of criminal justice, especially with regard to international judicial cooperation, and the procedures for the transmission between the Member States of the European Union of the European arrest warrant and decisions applying cohesion measures are already being regulated. The possibility of the transmission of sentences and sentences relating to parole complements this table. A long journey has come, with a view to creating an area of freedom, security and justice, whose cornerstone has always been respect for fundamental rights. on the basis of all this is always the eminent dignity of the human being. This bill has a deeply humanist matrix, because it allows coercive measures to be exercised in the territory of residence, not involving relocations and unnecessary social disintegrations. That's what this is for, ladies and gentlemen. Members, whom I naturally ask for your contributions, always following this deeply humanist matrix. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u22	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u23	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Government today brings to the discussion the transposition of two framework decisions of the European Council. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There have been many Community directives and framework decisions taken by this government, and we therefore welcome the effort that has been made in this regard. in the present case, it is important, from the moment on, to highlight compliance with the principle of mutual recognition as an element of judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the European Union, as well as respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms of the rule of law. It is imperative that, in the common European area, there is a harmonisation of the concepts of freedom, security and justice. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: Since Europe is a common and globalised area, problems necessarily tend to seek similar solutions, the more we are talking about rights, freedoms and guarantees. The European Community, with its policy at this level, initiated a procedure with the adoption of these framework decisions on a common regulatory framework for a set of instruments in a European judicial culture policy with a view to facilitating and making judicial cooperation between the Member States smooth. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: When talking about matters as sensitive as citizenship, the PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the strengthening of the transposition of these framework decisions through these two important instruments of European integration and cooperation in criminal justice. The PSD Parliamentary Group therefore welcomes, in this framework, the adoption of a procedure relating to the recognition and enforcement of sentences and decisions in criminal matters, not only in respect of the enforcement and enforcement of sentences and decisions in criminal matters, the enforcement of sentences or deprivation of liberty, but also in respect of the suspended prison sentence in its enforcement and parole. We will also be available to discuss the subject in the speciality, in order to contribute to a possible deepening of the debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u24	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is waiting a few moments for the inclusion of more Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] I would ask the parliamentary groups to register their speakers so that we can continue the debate. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if we can assume from now on that there are no more speakers...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u25	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u26	After all, we cannot assume, because there is always another speaker. You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u27	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: In order to break this impasse, I would like to say that there is a generic agreement on this matter on the part of the CFP with the objectives that this bill aims to achieve. Furthermore, we believe that, through the strengthening of international judicial cooperation, the improvement of its mechanisms, with some references already made in this debate to the space still available to improve and improve these mechanisms of international judicial cooperation, many of these problems can certainly be overcome by exempting the mechanisms provided for in that law. In fact, I dare say that the exemption from the use of the mechanisms provided for in this law would be the best example and the best reality we would be facing, because that would mean that, from the point of view of international judicial cooperation, everything would work without us having to resort to other kinds of solutions. But I would like to tell you, Mrs Minister, that there are some aspects of the bill that raise some doubts or, at least, the need for further discussion in the field of expertise. We understand that, from the preliminary draft to the bill, the Government made some amendments, including some of the matters that had been signalled in the opinions that had previously been requested, in particular those that were pointed out by the Attorney-General of the Republic and by the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor, with regard to the draft bill of law, but there are some aspects that, we believe, should still be better considered, in particular the one who has to do with the consent, with the necessary link between the rules requiring the consent, which determine the conditions under which such consent should be obtained and the others that determine the waiver of consent or the recognition of the mechanism of the tacit consent, when there is no answer from whom the request for consent is directed. We therefore believe that, in relation to what is foreseen, for example, in Article 8 ( 1 ). Article 10 ( 4 ). the, there is a need to articulate these various mechanisms so that, above all, the consideration that is placed in relation to the response given by the State to which the request is addressed can be compatible with that request for consent and the response, or the lack of response, of consent. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, there is one aspect which we believe must be better thought about, even though this warning has been made in the opinion of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor and of the Government, in the text of the bill, some concerns concerning this issue of the measure of coercion of provisional detention or of measures that correspond to a restriction on the freedom of citizens. Nevertheless, we believe that in more detail the exact implications of this forecast must be considered, under the penalty of being able here, if any, a confrontation with what is determined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 27. in particular with regard to exceptional situations in which citizens may be deprived of their freedom. This is because we believe that the exceptional nature of the coercion measure, in the case of provisional detention, must be effectively compatible with the requirements, translated in part into our Code of Criminal Procedure, with regard to a process which is under investigation and which, of course, have to be considered differently, if there is a sentence to be executed. We believe that these aspects are not as melancholy as that. Therefore, in our specialty, we will seek that some of these difficulties can be overcome, so that the fundamental objectives of this initiative can indeed be achieved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u28	Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Through the proposal for a law which we are discussing today, and which is essentially consistent with the transposition of two Framework Decisions of the Council, the Government, as we well understand, intends to approve the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences in criminal matters, which impose imprisonment sentences or other measures privatising freedom for the purposes of implementing these judgments in the European Union, as well as the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences and decisions relating to parole, for the purpose of monitoring surveillance measures and alternative sanctions. in essence, what is intended here to be enshrined, in the form of law, is the principle of mutual recognition—as, in fact, it was well mentioned here by Mrs Andreia Neto — on the basis of mutual trust established between the Member States,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u30	... ensuring, in parallel, respect for the rights inherent in criminal proceedings. The diploma departs from the need for review and confirmation of the foreign criminal sentence, applying to these cases a specific procedure, simpler and faster, although fully guaranteeing individual rights. It is worth noting: a number of infringements are provided in the bill which, as the Minister said in her speech, have been found in the decisions which are recognised and implemented, allow for the removal of the requirement of double criminality, as long as they are punishable by deprivation of liberty of a maximum duration of not less than three years. Judicial cooperation between States within the specific framework of the European Union reaches a high level of integration, which can be explained by the very characteristics of European construction. The free movement of goods, capital, services and persons has in fact created an area without internal frontiers; and as a result, it was established in the 1990 Convention for the Implementation of the Schengen Agreement, but which, of course, followed up by the removal of control at internal borders, a set of compensatory measures, including increased police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. More: the European Union itself, since the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, also seeks the maintenance and development of an area of freedom, security and justice, which, after the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, is preceded by the list of the fundamental objectives of the European Union. However, the creation of this common European area inevitably results in the abdicating on the part of States some of the prerogatives traditionally contained in the core of sovereignty. This is also the genesis of judicial cooperation in criminal matters: a paradigm change that is justified only by the fact that States have considered that they can trust each other and the institutions of the European Union. The basis for this mutual trust is, in fact, recognised as such in an important provision, Article 2. that of the Treaty on European Union, which reminds us, indeed, of common values, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy and equality, and only it also enables the current level of cooperation between States in matters so strongly linked to their sovereignty. The fundamental principle underlying judicial cooperation in criminal matters is as provided for in Article 82. paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, mutual recognition of the judgments and judicial decisions of the Member States. Without this principle, judicial cooperation in criminal matters would certainly not achieve the objectives justifying it. And, in this respect, there is indeed a note worthy of being made here, which is an important element that characterizes judicial cooperation, i.e. the abolition, in relation to certain areas of crime, of the requirement for double criminality. The abolition of double criminality control is a compensatory measure — as I have just mentioned — of the abolition of border control, and the aim is, in fact, to strengthen the criminal law of each Member State, preventing an agent from using different legal systems to commit crimes and not being punished. I shall conclude by saying that we do not ignore that, in parallel with a generalized agreement, there are repairs made by the entities that have been heard by the Government. However, there is now a stage of speciality in which, I am sure, they will be duly scrutinized and answered, without prejudice to a naturally very positive assessment of the rules under discussion in the name of the dignity of the human person. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u31	I now give the floor to Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : With this bill, the principle of mutual recognition of judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the European Union, enshrined, in addition, in numerous instruments, begins with the Lisbon Treaty itself. Finally, I leave a note: in the model of Europe which, at least for us, makes less and less sense in such sensitive matters, here is another step forward in the search for a European judicial culture. in this sense, the transposition of these two Framework Decisions of 2008, finally being a transposition with delay, does not cease, from our point of view, to also be underlined as a positive transposition. essentially, what is sought is the agileization of procedures necessary for the recognition and enforcement of sentences and decisions, in criminal matters, in large part also removing the weight of review and confirmation of foreign criminal judgment. from this point of view, and recognizing the delay but the positive nature of the transposition, a global agreement, there is also on our part to highlight some aspects which have been noted by the consulted entities, once again recognizing that there is a final effort in drafting some of them. First of all, I mention the fact that transposition has been made together on these two matters, an option which I do not think has been followed by any Member State. I do not know whether the Minister of Justice wants to justify this option in any way which raises some doubts. at the same time, there is ambiguity, already noted here, on the question of consent, and we have in good note the opinion of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, which we believe should be taken into account, as well as the reflection on the need and persistence of the provisions of Article 45. o. On the other hand, I do not think I am mistaken if it is necessary to consider a context aspect. Here, the limitation of the transfer of convicted person with the absolute, intransposable contingencies of consent and agreement between the States concerned is exceeded. And here we must bear in mind that, recognizing as essential that the penalties can be met in the social environment of origin, we agree with this issue, it is also true that there are more Portuguese prisoners detained in the European Union than the other one. So there is here, it seems to us, a given context that should not be overlooked in this assessment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u33	For an intervention by the PS ; you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Oneto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party generally agrees with the proposed law which the Government brings to debate today on the subject of transmission and enforcement of foreign sentences and also the recognition of our sentences in the European area, precisely within the framework of international legal cooperation, in the strengthening of the area of freedom, security and justice which is the area of the European Union. It is worth noting that, essentially, in these Framework Decisions which accept the enforcement of the sentence in a foreign country, the purpose of the social reintegration of the convicted person, which I believe is a matrix that crosses the European Union area today, and the recognition that, as regards the end of the sentences, it is a common goal, without obviously withdrawing the ability of each Member State to punish in accordance with its legislation, but ensuring that the final end of the sentence is that of the sentenced person's social reintegration. in this sense, having an area of sharing the European Union, it will deepen this way, in fact, represents the deepening of the space we want for freedom, justice and security. A number of situations have already been mentioned here that will deserve, in the field of expertise, some improvements, reflected in the opinions themselves together with the proposed law, and also already reflected in the bill itself, which absorbed part of the suggestions made in those opinions. Obviously, in relation to the question of consent, above all, when alleged consent, it is necessary to ensure its notification in order to ensure that, although consent is presumed, the person was aware of this notification. There are also questions relating to detention, which the Socialist Party will, as a matter of specialty, seek to ascertain, to the extent that it is not even mentioned in the bill. It is pointed out that, at the request of the issuing State, detention is possible, but it is necessary to clarify to what extent and what formalities this request must comply with. In any case, and despite the delay, because these Framework Decisions should have already been transposed into Portuguese law by the end of 2011, it is always to say that it is worth more late than ever. And here too we will contribute to the deepening of the space of international judicial cooperation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u35	Mr. Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave a word of peace. These transpositions have a standard-work of respect for the principles and standards of our criminal, criminal and, clearly, constitutional law. I therefore believe that many of these fears will be removed by this consecration expressed in this directive. Mrs. Members, I believe there is no doubt that when rights, freedoms and guarantees or essential principles are involved, such as in the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor, I am not afraid, as has happened in Stockholm recently, of voting alone. And I did, in the name of the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u37	We thus conclude the debate on the second item on our agenda. I appreciate the presence of the Minister for Justice. Further, I welcome the members of the Government who are already present in the Chamber for the next debate, the Minister of Internal Administration and the Secretary of State. We will take a brief break here before we start the next debate. [[Pause.]] The next item on today's agenda is the general discussion of Bill No 336 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May. You have the floor for an intervention by the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill introduces the driving licence for points in Portugal. The Road Code, in its current wording, already provides for the termination of the letter to repeat offenders, but the current system is not transparent and does not allow some of the recognised advantages of the letter by points, which I will stress during this exhibition. The letter by points is the solution adopted by most European countries, where this system is fully enshrined and stabilized. This is a more transparent and easy-to-understand regime for citizens, increasing the degree of perception and accountability of drivers in the face of their behaviour, which translates into the experience of our European partners who have implemented the letter by points — in reducing road weakness and consequently improving public health. It is fair to note that this proposal stems in part from the work carried out under the National Road Safety Strategy by the National Road Safety Authority, having also had the active participation of the advisory group of the National Strategy, which consists of about 50 civil society entities. Other entities were also heard in the course of the legislative process, with particular note to the opinion of the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which greatly contributed to improving the proposal. If you'll excuse me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now go into the detail of the proposal. The initial allocation of 12 points is proposed for drivers, and drivers lose two or four points for the practice, respectively, of serious or very serious counter-ordinations. Driving under the effect of alcohol, above legal limits, or psychotropic substance has a regime differentiated by the individual and very negative contribution to road sincality. I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies, who, in 2013, about 1 / 3 of the fatal victims in road accidents presented an alcohol rate in the blood above that legally admitted. Such serious or very serious road counter-ordination implies the loss of three or five points, respectively. The possibility of extinguishing road counter-ordination allows, and will allow in the future, to guide the charter system by points to penalize, in particular, those behaviors that most contribute to road fatality, thus also allowing greater awareness of drivers for road hazards. It is also important to point out that, in terms of the proposal, road crimes become relevant to the chartering regime and involve the loss of six points. As far as point loss is concerned, a six-point limit is provided for cluster counter-ordinations, except when driving is concerned under the effect of alcohol or psychotropic substance. The subtraction of points to the driver has consequences, but, contrary to the current regime, it is not only about the cassation of the letter. There is a clear bet on the rehabilitation of the driver through the frequency of road training actions and the realization of the new theoretical driving exam. Finally, I would also like to point out that drivers have the possibility to recover the lost points: for each three-year period without the existence of serious counter-ordinations, very serious or road crimes, three points are assigned to the driver and it is important to note that drivers can recover points up to the limit of 15 plus three points than the initials. The proposed regime not only penalises bad behaviour on the road, as it benefits and therefore encourages good behaviour. An exceptional scheme is also provided for professional drivers to whom points can be recovered at the end of two years. I'm just making two more final notes before I'm done. The system of fines and ancillary sanctions remains completely unchanged — there is no change in this matter — the counter-ordinations continue to be punished with fines and, where applicable, with the accessory penalty of inhibition to conduct. The proposal provides for its entry into force on 1 June 2016, with almost a year of holiday leis, because it is important to ensure full clarification of citizens and drivers in particular. This extended period will allow this, through the launch of extensive awareness-raising and clarification campaigns by the Ministry of Internal Administration, through the National Road Safety Authority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u39	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Fão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u40	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretarys, Mrs and Mrs Members: The fight against road sinequality must be, and it is, a national plan. We have no doubt of that. This fight implies the constant concern of political decision-makers and also constantly blames all citizens. We are all constantly summoned, as citizens, to this fight and to help reduce the consequences of sinlessness. And we have a difficult task! Despite the great evolution we have had in recent years in Portugal, reducing the number of accidents, the number of deaths and the number of serious injuries must indeed continue to be a goal of all of us. And it should be remembered that, despite this evolution in 2014, about 117 000 accidents occurred last year on the Portuguese roads, 480 people died and nearly 2700 serious injuries were recorded. This means a dead man and about six serious injuries per day on the road, with the consequences coming from there. So reality has this dimension, but it is also changeable and unpredictable. See what is happening in 2015: in the same period, from January to June 21, there have already been more 2300 accidents in Portugal than last year, more 64 serious injuries and more — attention to this issue — 33 dead than last year. The consequences of road fatality in Portugal are therefore a major problem, so it needs a persistent, stopped fight. Above all, political decision-makers demand constant monitoring of statistical data, an ongoing study of accidents with regard to the assessment of their causes to combat them and political initiative at various levels, from the outset in promoting awareness campaigns to change the behaviour of citizens in the road environment, in constant and systematic investment in improving the safety conditions of road infrastructure, in modernising the active and passive safety system of vehicles, in active but also pedagogical, comprehensive and effective supervision and, above all, in a sanctioned regime that is adjusted to this reality. We are therefore convinced that this proposal for the amendment of the Road Code, which aims first to adjust a set of standards of the last revision and revise its wording, is in this sense also intended to introduce an amendment to the Code by implementing the driving licence regime by points. This is innovation, which means completely changing the wording of Article 148. o, adhere to Article 121. -A and repeal Article 141. o. These are the main proposals put forward by the Government in this amendment. The point card system has more than 40 years of experience in Europe. It started in Germany in 1974, following in its implementation Greece, France and then successively other countries. There are also some countries, such as Sweden and Denmark, which do not have this system in place. However, the proposed amendment will bring Portugal, we believe, a new scenario in this area. The Government understands — and we agree — that this system will increase the demand and responsibility of drivers and will allow them to monitor and manage their driving authorisation in a more efficient and concrete way. We therefore sincerely believe that this initiative should follow its way of discussing the speciality with the agreement and the favourable vote of the Socialist Party. in the discussion of the specialty we will make contributions, we will suggest some small amendments, we will request some opinions that we consider important, in particular the Association of Automobilized Citizens, the Automobile Club of Portugal and the Association of Driving Schools. With these contributions, it seems to us that Portugal will have a charter scheme for points which will be one more contribution and one more step towards reducing road sinequality and its harmful consequences. It has been the position of the Socialist Party to cooperate in this process. That is and will continue to be your position. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u41	Mrs Carina Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u42	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: in the letter by points, let us go by points. We welcome and praise this government for the realization of what has already been expressed in the National Road Safety Strategy since 2009, the ultimate goal of which is to move us: to save lives on the road. The letter by points already exists in most European countries, in some since 1974, with different specificities from country to country. Since 1994, which in Portugal is already in its philosophy and practical application, in everything similar to what is now being proposed, i.e. a certain number of serious/ very serious counter-ordinations and the corresponding cumulative penalty and cassation of letters. Now what fproposes is just translating this into numeral: each driver is assigned 12 points, severe/very severe counter-ordinations are subtracted points depending on the nature and cluster of infringements. It is a more intuitive, more transparent and easily perceived regime for the driver, which can easily manage its condition on the steering wheel. I leave a word on the penalty added to the subtraction of points in the case of crimes of a road nature and by the effect of alcohol. We have always said - and we will continue to say - that alcohol on the road kills. We will not hesitate to support all measures taken to prevent and penalize such behaviour. I stress the positive effects on the translation of behaviors into positive points. The system of awarding drivers who, for three years, have a clean record with three more points ( up to a maximum of 15 ) is fair for those on the road to comply with the rules. It is also fair that this differentiation is made for professional drivers, lowering this period for the two years of clean registration, due to the frequency with which these same drivers perform their functions and the probability of activation by the security forces. I would like to say a final word, asking the Government to be sensitive to the amendments which this Parliament will want to introduce in its specialty. I hope that all parties, without exception, will make contributions that will improve the driving situation in Portugal from the PSD and CDS-PP, we want to see included in these changes the revalidation of knowledge as a way to increase the ability of drivers knowledge and to reward, even if symbolically, this differential and positive factor. At present, the renewal of the driving licence in Portugal is merely administrative: you will go to the doctor, fill in some papers and you will find that the driver is again in a position to get on the road. But often, we forget signs, technological changes, urban design changes, that again contact with traffic signs rules and forms is a contribution that can help improve driving. For PSD the driving license must be more than a role that is in hand. The idea that we have, and that we want to discuss in the specialty with the contribution of all parties in this Parliament, would be to reward with a symbolic point each driver who, in the revalidation of his driving licence, would want to rejoin, on a voluntary basis and at his own expense, a positive conduct. We believe that, with this measure, there are more effective gains in the conduct of the driver than the importance of the point in the letter. Everything that is done to save lives on the road for us is never too much. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u43	For an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Viegas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u44	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretarys, Mrs and Mrs Members: Road sinequality is a constant concern that should lead us to promote modernization events with regard to combating the difficulties that arise within road safety. Acting and updating the normative diplomas that give sustainability to the counter-ordering system of the Road Code is thus a goal that should mobilise all those who have obligations in national legislative institutions, especially those who have the protection of road safety. That's what happens now. The Ministry of Internal Administration is aware that the counter-ordering system needed modernisation that would suit the needs of safety and that would allow drivers to look positively at a system that so far only intended to penalize and punish, without any positive deference for all those who regularly comply with the requirements of driving law on roads. Legislation is, in situations where it corresponds to citizens' expectations, to follow up on the social dimension that allows our society to accept and regulate itself by a set of rules that represent domestic law. The CDS agrees that the government's bet is made in prevention, because we believe that this is the most effective way to tackle the problem. This new methodology of monitoring the contraordinations to the Road Code will penalise, as previously happened, all drivers who have committed infringements. However, the method changes. After the law enters into force, those who commit serious and very serious infringements shall be penalized by subtracting points from the 12-point basic credit. But—and this is where the system becomes more perfect—there are innovations of pedagogical character, innovation which, in fact, cannot be considered positive for all. Now, whenever a driver reaches a minimum number of penalisation points, he will have to attend a training action, something which, being taken to the extreme, and if they reach negative points, gives the right to cassation of the letter. But, and so far, everything is close to what happened. What makes sense to highlight in this measure is that, beyond the pedagogy through the criminalization of the offender, there are positive points for those who have positive behaviors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u45	This is a real invitation to common sense and respect for traffic rules; this is, in the view of the CDS, a great pedagogical bet that, we are convinced, will contribute positively to the improvement of behaviors to the steering wheel. Where a driver has an exemplary behavior for three years, he shall benefit from another three points up to a limit of 15 points. We are then faced with a credible, modern bet that also has a special legislative sensitivity. The Government, noting that these changes need to be widely disclosed and explained, decided that there would be an adaptation period until 1 July 2016. We also remember that most countries in the European Union have the letter by similar points or system. For example, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom have already been mentioned here. This measure is also in line with something already foreseen in the National Road Safety Strategy, and as has already been announced, in our view, and in the discussion in the specialty, it makes sense to include a proposal for the award of a positive point where in the revalidation of the driving licence it is accompanied by an update of knowledge. We are convinced that an up-to-date driver will certainly be a better driver. We are therefore pleased that the government has given the impetus to modify the counter-ordering system in the Road Code. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u46	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to point out what might not be so obvious to some but, during the legislative process for the Road Code, about two years ago, this evidence was recognized by everyone. Dir-CL-it would be that the current regime in Portugal already corresponds to a letter by points, but without points. In other words, as in other countries—and the opinion of the Portuguese Road Prevention cited the cases of Austria, Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands—we already have this reality in the register, in the consequences of serious and very serious counter-ordinations and in the corresponding risk of cassation of the driving licence, with the accumulation of counter-ordinations. Therefore, what was missing was to identify and expressly put the points to, in a more visible way, the citizen, the driver and the authorities have that record and knowledge. However, we note that, as the Minister pointed out, the Government welcomed the important contribution of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor, in particular Article 148. the and for the way to operationalize this type of registration and this type of consequences, but there is one word that we should leave with regard to situations related to the recovery of points, so let us say, through training, of the actions of validation of knowledge, recycling, say-CL- it would be in driving schools. But at this time it is inseparable from this aspect of a debate and a law which this House of the Republic has approved, with our vote against, a little more than a year ago, which is the legal system of driving education, with the framework of deregulation, openness to unequal or even unfair competition, with the economic groups taking account of the sector and the business ahead can be drawn up on this matter. It is a good idea that can result in a bad picture resulting from the political options that have been taken by the amount. The Government takes the opportunity to propose some on-the-spot improvements in some of the rules of the Road Code, which we can perfectly equalize and discuss in the specialty in cases of coexistence, counter-ordering, etc. Finally, we note the fact that the Government has heard a number of very relevant entities in this area, with a very consistent contribution — and that, above all, it has been accepted — in important matters but unfortunately once again, it has not taken into account the contribution, experience and reflection that professional drivers and their organisations could bring to this discussion. They are workers who walk every day on the road, who face, how many and how many times, fatigue, risk and often the unbearable sacrifice and who, in this matter, it would be important to listen. The Assembly of the Republic should promote this hearing, which is important for us to take into account, even because of very recent situations. And if we do not want to advance conclusions of any ongoing investigations, we would like to recall that, with the Secretary of State and the former Minister, we, CFP, have repeatedly put the issue of supervision, on the road, at work and driving time, supervision in conjunction with the competent authorities on working conditions with regard to the implications that all this has for human lives, for road safety. Today, all that concerns fatigue in the driving of workers, professional drivers, is also a matter that comes up on the table when we talk about road safety. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u48	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is obvious that the application of measures that can reduce sinequality is always a positive matter and will deserve our follow-up. It is true — as has already been said earlier, that it will be redundant to repeat — that the issue of points in the driving licence, being implicitly in progress already in Portugal, can in fact improve this understanding of which dangerous behaviour also reduces the quality of drivers with the reduction of points in their driving licence. We understand this reality, the international examples that exist and this new way of presenting the already existing Portuguese reality. We know that it is not the only way to reduce sinlessness and that there are other matters that should also accompany these concerns, which are related to drivers, but also to infrastructures. There are still many black spots on the Portuguese roads, and these are relevant factors of paternality. But, given the questions of the drivers, their actions and what is imputable to their choices, in this law there are some subjects that we will discuss in the specialty so that we can understand how the government has conceived it and what openness has in order to reach consensus as well. The Government has a great deal of concern in this law about how to remove the points, basically on which choices are drawn from the drivers. There is a first question that could be asked, which is to know why those behaviors that most result in accidents, such as excessive speed, should not also have a worsening point withdrawal such as driving with a high rate of alcoholism, for example. We could have this concern and at least figure out whether or not the government has studied this option and how we could address this problem. On the other hand, it may be questioned what mechanisms could exist, not by removing points, but by obtaining points. For example, could anyone who had a driving that led to excess speed and therefore suffered a withdrawal of points, if he had a training or sensitization action, therefore could have a recovery of points? To what extent could I have it? We could even extend, eventually, the way in which we have this recovery of points. basically, these are the subjects that we are going to discuss in the specialty, making it clear that we do not have a negative view of the proposed law. We believe that she is taking positive steps so that we can have a fundamental fight in our society, which is the fight against road sinisterity, that so many lives have gone wild in our country, and that we think that there should be no room in our future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u50	Having concluded this item on our agenda, we continue with the evaluation of the Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI ). Five minutes will be allocated to each parliamentary group, and the Minister of Internal Administration has already been inscribed to open the debate and present the report. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Annual Internal Security Report for the year 2014 reflects a widespread reduction in crime that is manifestly below the average of the last 12 years. With regard to the previous year, general crime decreased by 6, 7 % and, in turn, violent and serious crime decreased by 5, 4 %. From 2013 to 2014, there was a reduction in the number of homicides, the number of thefts to commercial or industrial buildings, the number of thefts to residences, among reductions verified in other types of crimes. This is, in particular, a trend of constant and consistent decline in general, violent and serious crime, a trajectory that began in 2008 and has since come to record increasingly low values. It is undoubtedly a good result, as a result of the brightness, dedication and levels of competence and professionalism achieved by security forces and services. However, we must not forget the challenges that this Annual Internal Security Report also reflects. Although there is a residual increase in the crime of domestic violence, the total number of cases verified is far greater than the desirable and acceptable in a free society. Although experts say that more than an increase in crime we are faced with a phenomenon of deoccultation of cases of violence, the truth is that domestic violence is a pressing challenge that is urgent and whose fight we are all called upon to fight. The Public Security Police and the Republican National Guard have carried out a remarkable work in combating domestic violence, building their strategy in the context of prevention and specialized support and follow-up to victims. It is important to strengthen this work and invest in public awareness, which is where this battle has to be waged, in a structural and long-term perspective. Still, and without forgetting this and other challenges, the truth is that Portugal is an increasingly secure country, something that is demonstrated by the latest annual internal security reports, in particular by RASI, concerning the year 2014. I finish by expressing my confidence and gratitude to the women and men who daily look forward to our safety. And I express a feeling of appreciation for the Portuguese, who, even though faced with situations of enormous difficulty, have given unequivocal evidence of a democratic maturity and of a civic responsibility impaired. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u52	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão wrote to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u53	Madam President, Minister of Internal Administration, the PS welcomes the results of the RASI, but on them I will say-CL-I will - in the intervention I intend to make later. At this moment, I would just like to put three questions to Mrs Minister, the first of which concerns the following: when Mrs Minister — and I remember that she held in November last year and that this RASI was presented in March of this year — she makes the report, specifically in the strategic objectives for 2015, so for this year that she will pay particular attention to the management of ANPC (National Civil Protection Authority ), the request that can not fail to be made, Mr Minister, is that she clarifys the confusion that at this moment is created with the availability of the air resources, the days that we are starting the Charlie phase, and that on 22 May the ANPC has come to say that the five Kamovs were inoperative, that the day immediately following the Secretary of State has made it clear that, after all, three of these five were fully operational and that Mr. And this, Mrs. Minister, with great perplexity, because the Minister well knows that a light helicopter does not replace any heavy helicopter. A heavy helicopter carries 5000 litres of water and, just as the Minister does not replace a bucket with two cups, neither will it be two superimposed light helicopters that will have the conditions to release the same water load. Therefore, clearly, this statement is incomprehensible and I would like the Minister to clarify the availability of air resources for the Charlie phase, which we are now starting with.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u55	The second question, very briefly, has to do with the following: the Minister has stated that it would constitute a strategic objective for 2015 to review the organic laws of the security forces. I am asking you this question, because, contrary to your predecessor who, for three times, went to 1. the Commission provides clarification on RASI, this is the first time that the Minister can provide us with information on RASI. Ms. Minister, in July 2014 sources of the MAI reported that the proposals for organic laws were concluded. however, the Minister compared the country with the lack of veracity of this issue. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, I wanted to know to what extent this strategic objective of the review of organic laws is being achieved. Finally, the Minister makes it very perplexity to say on page 136 of the RASI that « local security contracts constitute an essential instrument... » — I repeat, the qualification is 'essential' — «...in order to strengthen the objective of security and to increase the confidence of the people ». The question that arises, Mrs Minister, is this: how does the Minister include this in RASI, when this government did not approve a single local security contract and, on the contrary, those that were all disabled? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Guilherme Silva was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u56	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u57	Mr President, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, on the first question, I say that MAI is committed to three objectives : firstly, in the complete clearance of responsibilities through the investigation that was determined to IGAI (General Inspection of Internal Administration ) ; secondly, through ANPC, in the recovery of aircraft that can integrate the device as quickly as possible; and thirdly, in the possible hiring of additional means considered from an operational point of view necessary to replace those that are lacking. As for organic laws, I have nothing more to add, nor do I withdraw anything I say in this House, in 1. the Commission. As regards local security contracts, they are actually registered, because they are understood to need a review, particularly with regard to funding issues. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u58	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u59	Mr President, according to the principle of alternance...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u60	Mr President, in order to have an alternance, there must be inscriptions, but the Bureau does not have them. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u61	Mr President, there is certainly no problem with that. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the issue of RASI—and because clearly the time left for me to intervene is not much — I would particularly like to congratulate myself on the results of the RASI 2014. But I wanted to say, because it matters to do so and I think that it must always be emphasized, that, despite numbers being good, every crime, every road accident or every disaster is, in itself, a personal drama that can never be ignored. Therefore, at the same time as we welcome the results, we obviously want to note this fact and record it as relevant. Participated crime has been coming down systematically since 2008, a trend that we enjoy, and violent and serious crime has been decreasing systematically since 2010. It is also this reference which we want to leave marked. Ms. Minister, the first intervention your predecessor, Dr. Miguel Macedo, had the opportunity to do, as Minister of Internal Administration, in this plenary, exactly for the presentation of the 2010 Annual Internal Security Report. in this intervention, Minister Miguel Macedo had the opportunity to record that he had inherited a safe country and that the values of the 2010 Annual Internal Security Report were globally positive. I am pleased to note that this will be the last annual internal security report of this Government, maintains the trend. So now, by paraphrasing the then statements by Minister Miguel Macedo and reporting them to this year, we will say that the values of the Annual Internal Security Report are globally positive and we welcome that Portugal is and continues to be a safe country. [[P.S.P. and PS.P.D. Carlos Peixoto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u62	Mr Peixoto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u63	Mr President, Mrs Minister of Internal Administration, Mr Secretary of State and Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs Members: I remember that, just over three years ago, I made a political statement on internal security here and then said that in a country plunged into uncertainty, with nerves more or less in line, security was always apparent and that all care was little to ensure order and social peace. This is about the synthesis of the statement I made at the time. He then prayed—and was not alone in that—that, in a country under assistance and with social indicators inflexion, insecurity and crime rates would increase or even fire. I was wrong, and I'm glad I was wrong. In 2013, the country had very positive results in this area and in 2014 it was able to further improve its performance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u65	This means, firstly, that troubled times, socially and economically, are not synonymous with increasing crime; secondly, that times of wage disturbance do not amount to a fall in the arms of the security forces; and thirdly, that in more difficult times the Portuguese people have not forgotten their civilization and their pacifism. For this reason, Mrs Minister, it is important to reinforce what has already been said by the Minister, now also accompanied by the Socialist Party, i.e. that the general crime involved - are given - are facts against which there are not even any arguments - has decreased 6, 7 % compared to 2013 and that serious and violent crime has decreased 5, 4 %. Then there is a very relevant data, almost unpublished in our democratic history, which, this year, I believe, was the first year in which crime decreased in all districts without exception. In addition, this was also the first year in which, in terms of category or type of crimes, there were only three that increased (and are not so relevant) all the other types decreased. On the other hand, there has also been a sharp decrease in road crimes (we have just talked about them in road safety at the front of our agenda) which have fallen 16, 5 %, with the lowest rate of sinality of the last 50 years and with less than 7, 3 % of deaths. Even domestic violence, which has already generated controversy, has dropped — only in a participation, it is true, but it has lowered. It only increased 31 cases, if we consider domestic violence between couples, i.e. disaggregated. But global domestic violence—against the elderly, against children, against children—all that the Penal Code covers, has reduced one case, one participation. Then, since we are starting the period of fire, it is important to point out here that the crime of fire and fire has dropped 34, 7%. Mrs. Minister and Mrs. State Secretaries, what this means is that, even in times of crisis, there was no deinvestment. The Government reinforced police forces to allow 433 guards and 36 officers to enter the GNR and 101 officers and 25 officers in the PSP in 2014. It was also able to ensure that this de-investment did not occur in times of crisis on the part of the security forces equipment: 419 new vehicles delivered and 11 million euros of investment on installations. Finally, Mr President, it is clear that these merits are not only from the Government, they are all of them. First of all, it is the merit of the government, which has taken measures and had policies with sufficient certainty, in order to halt the increase in crime. Secondly, it is the merit of the police, who have learned to perform with great dignity the role they have been given.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u67	And thirdly, it is the merit of the Portuguese, who have assimilated these good rules of coexistence and community civilization. In a country that needs to transmit stability and trust, both within and in relation to our external image in order to capture even more levels of tourism for it to continue to be the engine of the economy, it is clear that public peace...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u68	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u69	...is proof of our freedom every day. And the behaviour of Portuguese in 2014 is obviously marked by a word: that of continuity in the progressive reduction of levels of crime. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u70	We will never achieve the zero levels of crime and perfection, Mr President and Mrs Minister, because human nature is not perfect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u71	Six more months and we didn't even need police!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u72	But, without prejudice to the usual vigilance that we must all have, we certainly have reason to be more calm and to face the future with more confidence and with the certainty that Portugal is, in fact, an even safer country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u73	Safer than this one Gotham City! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The data on crime participated in 2014 show a decrease of 6, 7 %, the lowest value of the declining trend, at least since 2008. It is a positive aspect that has already been emphasized here, although we understand that one day this reality will be studied, in a crisis context, crime appears to descend but at the same time it is also good to recognize that prisons continue to be filled. But, finally, I repeat, it's a positive fact. however, I would like, if possible, to download some signs of euphoria already recorded here that have this tone of pre-campaign and leave some notes to you, taking advantage of the presence of the Minister, about aspects that seem very worrying in this framework that, we do not fail to record, is globally positive. First of all, within the most involved crime, everything goes down less the theft of opportunity and domestic violence, the third most involved crime. This difference in data regarding domestic violence has already been noted here. The RASI itself is concerned about the high number of participations. Finally, 25 murdered women are many. For much work that has been done and that must continue to be done, it is still many because any life that is lost is a very great loss. in violent and serious crime everything goes down less the theft in public transport and rape, which has more than 30 participations — 8, 7% increase —, sexual abuse of children and dependent minors — plus 17, 7% —, abuse and overload of minors — plus 23, 3 % —, lenocinium and child pornography — plus 40, 2 %. These data of these forms of violence and of this crime certainly deserve very special attention, because they are very worrying. We can see this decline in continuity in the participation of many crimes, but these crimes, often within or near the four walls, often incinerating and having a form of gender—they are women, they are girls, above all—should deserve attention and specific measures, and that is what we wanted to leave. There is little talk about prison data. There are 14 000 prisoners, 2330 prisoners — 16, 6 % — who are many, Mrs Minister. In 2014 there were 73 deaths, 22 suicides, 11 more deaths in the general count and 9 more suicides. They are data that should objectively concern the government. The same is true of juvenile delinquency. The data to which RASI reports are data that deserve particular attention. There is an increase of 453 shares, data which should deserve a very special intervention. The third point I would like to bring to this debate is in the context of global security threats, which is a subject on the agenda, since terrorism itself, as we well know, is at the top of these concerns and so is presented within the framework of the RASI. When we make this debate on a proposal for a law that has been agreed between the Government and the PS, or which at least gives rise to the satisfaction of Mr Jorge Lacão, and in this proposal for a law we expect access to data, which, from our point of view, raises the greatest doubts of constitutionality—we are talking about the data of operators, among others—we must ask both the Government and the PS, perhaps, what are the objective data that leads them to so much concern and what we are talking about, if we at least look inside the RASI. Now, what we see, according to the data in the table on page 16, is that statistically the data are insignificant, as the report itself reports, that is, they are much lower than we compare to any other crime. RASI recognizes that there is not a systematic movement of national citizens on the scene of jihadism, but that there is the participation of some converts, that is, it is a known, localized and controlled reality. And from this point of view, I can only leave you with doubt: why is this paranoia secure? Why use terrorism as a pretext for the potential violation of fundamental rights, which is at stake in the proposed law that they have agreed? The objective reality is this and with this, Minister, I do not want to underestimate the danger. We are not devaluationing and saying that danger does not exist, we are talking about concrete numbers, and they are within the Annual Internal Security Report for 2014. It's worth thinking about. Maybe they can still go back. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u76	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: in the analysis of the 2014 Annual Internal Security Report, what we want to start with is a fact that is repeated every year: it is that much of this report deals with crime, rather than real crime. Disbelief in institutions, delay in justice and costs with justice are some of the facts that lead the Portuguese not to participate in the crime that has occurred. That is why this Annual Report on Internal Security is a very credible instrument in this part with little adherence to the reality on the ground. from there almost ironic that at this rate there is no crime in Portugal, because every year crime decreases. There are facts that explain these events, facts in the RASI itself that demonstrate how crime data work. I give an example: new types of crime aggregations arise year after year in order to reduce other categories and types of crime. We have, for example, crimes against identity and personal integrity with a growth of 46%, which is of course not credible. However, this increase of 46% to the aggregation of certain types of crime allows to empty other types of crime and thus to circumvent crime statistics. Another fact that changes statistics is that road surveillance actions have suffered a sharp fall from 2013 to 2014. We had fewer than 3000 supervisory actions and less than 14 000 officers allocated to the supervisory actions. Obviously, if there are no monitoring actions or if they significantly reduce the types of crime that naturally fall, not because they do not exist, but because there is no necessary supervision. We want here to note with concern the fact that the third most involved crime is that of domestic violence, which clearly demonstrates the scourge that this same crime means, and it is also an example of how this aggregation of types leads to the emptying of statistics. Two years ago, except for mistake, the crime of domestic violence was part of the category of violent crimes, of serious crime. As he has not done, he has reduced what is the statistics of serious crime, although it remains a very significant problem. In this discussion of the 2014 Annual Internal Security Report, we want to take advantage of to greet and praise the work of all security forces officers in the country. But for the PCP, praise is not enough. Specific measures are required to ensure that agents have the necessary conditions for the performance of their duties and that agents should be valued in their rights and wages. The PSD, the CDS and the Government are praised, the CFP requires concrete measures. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, I would like to address a number of issues. The government has repealed the law of equipment acquisition programming, but serious problems remain with regard to equipment, including cars that are completely obsolete, with excessive age and mileage. There are dozens and dozens of PSP teams and GNR posts without minimum working conditions. What are you going to do about this? The number of staff is clearly insufficient and there is a worrying increase in the average age of staff. Therefore, this aging is something that concerns and deserves a reflection by the Minister. Mr Minister, unlike the compliments without consequence, we are going to solve specific problems. There is a problem with the retirement of PSP agents. As you know, PSP agents can — and well — retire to 60 years of age, however, the General Appropriation Box has the understanding that this is an early reform — when it is not — which leads to unjustified penalties. What will you do to correct this specific problem that affects the lives of agents? Mr. Minister, on the professional statutes of the GNR and the PSP, when will they be published, knowing that we are in the advanced phase of negotiation? It calls for the publication of the statutes. As for the status of the GNR, here we want to express our concern about the news that is conveyed and that leads to the concern of the accentuar of the military charis of this force. The GNR performs internal security functions, Mrs. Minister, soon it cannot have military nature and must walk to the civilian nature of this force. This militarized vision of the GNR only serves to aggravate exploitation, impose unregulated schedules and impose a disciplinary status that is clearly past century. Finally, I put two questions: there is an intention on the part of the Government to use military personnel on the reserve in school surveillance. How do you justify this option, Minister? There is complete confusion of concepts. You do not know the Minister that articles 272. o is 273. the Constitution does not allow the use of military personnel for internal security missions? How does this option justify, which is clearly unconstitutional? Mr President, to conclude with regard to civil protection, we were not silent with the explanation given to Kamov. Madam Minister, it is important that there are concrete guarantees that these heavy fire-fighting means are effectively operational in the peak of summer and the statements made here by the Minister do not give us that guarantee, and therefore we express our concern about this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u78	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : We have examined today, as has already been said, the latest Annual Internal Security Report of this Parliament. Four years back, four reports back, it is important, perhaps, to make a little, too, the balance sheet of what has happened in this Parliament and in those four years and, above all, to go back to what was said, in particular by the opposition, even the one that now seems to be still unsatisfactory despite these results, providing for the most disasters. So what did the opposition say? He said that Portugal would be subject, as it has been, to a very long programme of economic and financial assistance, that the government would be obliged — as it was — to take a set of measures which evidently had a very long impact on the lives of many Portuguese people, and so crime would increase. In other words, there was here a thesis of some opposition that in each person who dramatically fell into a desperate state of unemployment there was a criminal potential. This was the thesis of a certain opposition, almost wishing that there would be this increase in crime. They have erred across the line; there is a consistent, sustained, repeated, historical reduction, even of the same crime. There was, then, a second thesis that said that, even if not so, crime would surely increase, because with the measures, also difficult, they were also constant of the Memorandum of Understanding, that would affect all public officials and, from then on, the security forces and services would have a huge demobilisation of the men and women of the forces and security services, with this a drop of arms, perhaps even a strike of zeal, so there would be less prevention of crime, less fight against crime, soon crime would fire. That's what a certain opposition from the left over to the left said. They were once again wrong. The fact is that the men and women of the security forces and services are jealous people, with brightness, they like the mission they carry out, they have been up to the time, up to the responsibilities in the difficulties and because of them and, first of all, because of these men and women these numbers have been possible. It is to them that a word of honor is due because they knew they were up to the circumstances. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] But there was a third thesis that was that, like the investment, by force again of the Memorandum of Understanding, would be reduced in the Ministry of Internal Administration, this reduction would affect the operational capacity of security forces and services. Once again, the opposition failed not only in budgetary constraints, since it was possible to re-equip the security forces and services, as it was possible, even to make investments. I have heard here, for example, Mr Jorge Machado said that no investments have been made that need to be made. It is clear that some have not been done, because it is not possible to solve in four years the multiple difficulties of the security forces and services, but I remember the case, even in a district that the PCP knows well, in Palmela, that it must be of the few public works in which the same member of the government, former Minister Miguel Macedo, launched the first stone, inaugurated the work, fully paid the work. How many times in Portugal do we have these examples? It is unfortunate that this had not happened in other governments, because it would be much better for the country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] As far as the report is concerned, we welcome this reduction in crime. No one can be satisfied, as it is evident, when there are crimes — and there are still serious and violent crimes — but when there is a reduction of 5, 4 % of the serious and violent crime and 6, 7 % of the crime involved throughout the country, it is clear that this is encouraging us to do better and to improve the living conditions of men and women in the security forces and services, to whom almost all this reduction is due. There are, of course, some notes that I would like to leave and that should deserve our attention: for example, sexual abuse of children, adolescents and dependent minors has risen; in the Safe School Programme and in juvenile delinquency, we see some increases, which urgently fight and we know that the government is doing so. Finally, Mrs Minister, I would like to say that you can count on the CDS for counter-terrorism measures. Here is a thesis, which we have just heard, which is a little bit like this: as there were no terrorist attacks in Portugal and as there are no known perpetrators of terrorist attacks, it is a safe act to prevent terrorism. In other words, it could almost be concluded that we should first let the attacks come and then take the security measures. Madam Minister, we are not on this path, we think it is necessary to prevent, in fact, that it is also necessary to suppress, but above all to prevent, and what we do not want are the terrorist attacks, because they have two characteristics: they are at least expected and often done, especially this type of terrorism, for whom the least is expected. We are obviously pleased and, according to the largest party in the opposition, we find it very important that it has been approved in the fight against terrorism, which makes Portugal, at European level, a country with an excellent organisation both administratively and legislatively. To conclude, I just want to say that we will still have a next Annual Internal Security Report on this year and we hope that the data will continue. We trust that, we trust the increasingly motivated security forces, and for that we obviously also trust the work of the government. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u80	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to point out that the 6, 7% decline in general crime occurred for the sixth consecutive year, which means that, throughout the six years, general crime has decreased by 18, 4 % and, as regards violent and serious crime, the 5, 4 % decrease in the fourth consecutive year, which means that over the four years, it has decreased by more than 22 %. I would also like to draw another illusion from here: to emphasize a more intense decline in violent and serious crime—I think this is to be noted. In general, as has already been said, we must rejoice at the results of this Annual Internal Security Report, maintain a diligent and active action to continue to reduce crime and, above all, act on the preventive side. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u82	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more entries, I should like to conclude the discussion of the Annual Internal Security Report. We will move on to point 5, which consists of the joint assessment of draft resolution No 1483/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the exercise of the criminologist profession ( PSD ) of petition No 261 / XII ( 2. a ) — Submitted by Vítor Miguel Pereira da Silva and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to be recognized the profession of criminologist in Portugal, and the draft resolutions 1542 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the creation of the criminologist profession ( CDS-PP ) and 1549 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recognition and regulation of the criminologist profession ( BE ). To present draft resolution No 1483 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout this Parliament, far beyond the recognized concern that this Parliamentary Group and this majority have had with strict public accounts, with the fight against unemployment and with support for the economy and that, moreover, recent figures have confirmed the good choices and good choices made, above all, our concern has been the access of young people to the labour market and, in particular, the question of free access or the right that young Portuguese people must have to have to exercise the profession they have studied for which they have sought and for which most of the Portuguese families have made an effort, so that these young people could have it, despite all the inconveniences. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners present today in this House, representing a total of more than 4000 petitioners, and, in a very particular way, the Portuguese Association of Criminology, represented here by its President, Dr. Vítor Miguel Silva. Thus, this Parliamentary Group and this majority here support their legitimate aspirations and their legitimate aspirations, proposing to the Government the regulation of the criminologist profession. Mr President, we believe that the State, as a person of good, should never replace civil society, but should give the same society conditions so that everyone and everyone can perform themselves in personal terms. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u84	Therefore, the State must act here to enable these young people to perform their personal and professional tasks, which, more than anything else, is a right to assist them. This is my concern as a social-democrat and, above all, my concern as a Member of this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, being criminology an area of knowledge that deals with the etiology of crime, criminal investigation, social reintegration, biological, psychological and social factors that are at the base and foundation of crime and being proven the added value of the application and intervention of these professionals in criminal investigation, it is strange for me and this bench, that they face so many difficulties with regard to their access to the labour market, since they do not even appear in the database of human resources of the Public Administration or the National Classification of Professions. I mean, there are currently about 1400 young people who are licensed in Criminology who can't even get access to professional internships. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not just a matter of restraint, it is also a question of incoherence. The State certified, accredited institutions of higher education to minister undergraduates, higher courses and masters in this area of knowledge in particular, not subsequently coming to their recognition, recognition of their skills and professional qualifications. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with this initiative, what is intended to end this tremendous injustice and this inconsistency we feel today, ensuring access to a fair and worthy career for this whole set of young Portuguese people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u85	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives currently under discussion aim, essentially, to recognize the justice and ownership of the request underlying the petition that we have discussed today, subscribed by more than 4000 people, which I take advantage, on behalf of the CDS, to greet in the person of his first subscriber, Dr. Vítor Miguel Silva, President, as already mentioned, of the Portuguese Association of Criminology, present in the galleries, and which calls for recognition of the profession of criminologist in Portugal. Unfortunately, the preamble of this case, as has already been mentioned, is already long and not without any administrative expertise, even contentious. criminology is an area of knowledge that is guided by multidisciplinary, aiming to analyze and study the criminal phenomenon through the crossing of various areas of knowledge and practices, including social sciences, legal sciences, biomedical sciences, and particularly based on law, sociology, psychology and medicine. essentially, it focuses on methods for knowing the crime, the offender, the victim of crime, the perception of security and the social reaction of crime, and this is the only science that really deals with the study of all these areas. Having said that, we have no doubt of their special skills and competences for the assumption of various functions, which, given the nature of the subjects seized, take on particular importance in the public sphere, stressing to this effect the action at the level of police forces, the prison system or social reintegration services. However, the reality of the facts has witnessed unjustified situations of restriction, in particular when applying for public tenders for which the exclusion of licensed persons in Criminology is difficult to understand. The provisions of Article 47 are clearly at issue. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in which everyone has the right to choose freely the profession or kind of work. On behalf of the defence of this right, and considering that there is no restriction imposed by the collective interest or inherent in its capacity, the Portuguese Association of Criminology twice called for the annulment of a public invitation to tender: one, for superior technicians of social reintegration; another, within the framework of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ). However, the latter has already obtained a favourable decision of the Report which, in its argument, points out, in fact, that these powers, in the definition of the terms of the tenders, are not discretionary, so any restriction must be based on the concept of public interest which, in the present case, does not occur, being licensed in Qualified Scientific Criminology and academically to develop the functions concerned. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this call for recognition, as you can understand, goes beyond public tenders, including expression, as has already been mentioned, at the level of registration at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training or in access to internships. Being aware that for the National Institute of Statistics the tasks and functions to be performed by a graduate in Criminology fall within several basic groups and that, therefore, it is not possible to include the profession of criminologist in the Portuguese Classification of Professions, since, according to themselves, the level of Profession is created from and within the scope of a single basic group, it is our understanding that, in the face of all constraints, we have come to know, and unjustified limitations — I draw attention to the fact that these contestations of public contests have come to occur as there are criminologists who apply, who are preterised and who intend to act — the profession of criminologist must be considered relevant and, for the due effects, duly inserted in the supplementary level, level of Profession, of the Portuguese Classification of Professions. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we do not oppose the other recommendations and claims, we believe that by this way all the remaining constraints will be resolved in the name of justice. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u87	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I wanted to start by greeting the Portuguese Association of Criminology. There are popular saying that they have a positive charism and, I believe, what is right here is that who always fights and today is a step towards overcoming bureaucratic barriers to prevent — there is no other explanation — that those who have adequate training can see their profession recognized. Let's take steps in this area. First, this could and should have been done longer. We were still talking for months and had all the insecurity on the side of the petitioners because they had no reply from the Assembly of the Republic, because the Assembly of the Republic had no answer from the Government on simple issues such as to know why this profession was not regulated. In fact, they were already prisoners of state bureaucracy and became prisoners of the bureaucracy of the Assembly of the Republic, so I believe today is the day of liberation in this regard, and it is good that he has arrived. Secondly, how is it understandable that the State, which since 2006 / 2007 recognizes training in Criminology — in fact, the first higher education institution to have a training in this area was the Faculty of Law of the University of Porto, in 2006 / 2007 —, arrived in 2015 without recognizing the profession? And it is the State itself, the Government now — the Minister of Justice, who has been present now, or the Minister of Internal Administration, according to the public tender in question — that could have taken concrete action to end these restrictions, but did not do so over more than four years of mandate. And this is unacceptable! Those who have been trained, having recognized their formation and the higher institutions that have given them such training, cannot then be prevented from entering active life on bureaucratic matters, even if they come from excessive zeal of public institutions. This is unacceptable. So what we propose, I believe, is that all the motions for resolutions under discussion end these restrictions. It is essential that this be the case, because more than 1100 professionals are at stake and suspended, waiting for them to be able to access their active life in full. They are professionals whose competences we need, because they are of the best-trained in our country — the means of access to these courses, now almost in pairs of medicine, so indicate — and therefore we cannot waste both their knowledge and their technical skills. We must then take the necessary steps to solve these problems once and for all. Obviously, this goes through the inclusion of the criminologist's profession in the list of the National Classification of Professions, and includes it in the database of regulated professions in the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Educação Professional) and, of course, through future public contests, all of them cease the restrictions that have so far existed. This is our motivation, we will follow the draft resolution of the PSD and CDS-PP, which also aim at the same subject, and we hope that, in fact, the theory we are discussing here today on practice will be few days so that the criminologists can have justice because they so long for their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I begin by greeting the petitioners present here, in the person of Dr. Vítor Miguel Silva, and say that, although recently in Portugal, training in criminology and the profession of criminologist are extremely important for the exercise of various activities in criminal investigation, criminal mediation, risk assessment in situations of domestic violence, forensic expertise, among many and many others. Criminologists have long been an internationally recognized profession and recognized by the way they have placed their knowledge, transversal in various fields of knowledge, from justice to sociology and psychology, among others, to the service of analysis and understanding of the new dynamics of crime and of the always complex and difficult relationship between the processes of aggression and victimization. Today, the seat placed in restorative justice has also led to the development of new models to deal with the phenomenon of crime, where the damage to victims and the community are taken into account. In this respect, even during this week, specifically next Friday, there will be a discussion here in plenary—and there was today on 1st. the Commission — on the transposition of a directive on the status of the victim into criminal proceedings, which actually points to this emerging paradigm, to which we have to give answers. Here, too, criminologists have a word to say, have a very important role to play in a new understanding of crime, in a new understanding of the victim / aggressor relationship, in a new understanding of the damage caused to the community, in criminal mediation and also in expertise, as well as in a new understanding of the contexts and dynamics that characterize crime, in order to strengthen support for the judicial decision and in the implementation of the measures that have been taken. This is, therefore, a profession that is fit, I repeat, fit and is very useful in various institutional contexts in the field of justice, from social reintegration to prison services, educational centers, reception centers and assistance to victims of crime. But the criminologists have had several blockades that have already been mentioned here, especially at the administrative level and also at the speed of the system, in the exercise of this professional activity. For example, they do not have the profession integrated into the human resources database of the Public Administration or the National Classification of Professions, so it is urgent to overcome these difficulties, which have blocked the development of professional activity, which can even be independent, and the work that criminologists can do. The PS therefore accompanies the projects under discussion for the recognition and regulation of the profession of criminologist and to include the profession of criminologist/criminologist in the National Classification of Professions. It will therefore be a step forward in the recognition and dignity of an extremely important profession at the level of the new approaches to crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u91	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first intervention of the CFP in this area must necessarily go through the recognition and greeting of those who are the more than 4000 petitioners and of the Portuguese Association of Criminology, which brought a very specific problem to the Assembly of the Republic. I would like to stress here that the petition for recognition of the criminologist profession in Portugal highlights a set of information that is important, namely the integration of the criminology profession into the National Classification of Professions, the fact that in our country there are already four institutions with this area of knowledge, with this course and, moreover, that this course has a multidisciplinarity with a very significant scope, through a degree that involves knowledge in the areas of behavior sciences, forensic sciences, law statistics, methods, scientific research and scientific philosophy. criminology is today able to intervene in a set of services, from social reintegration to the prison system, but also in research with the police forces and, therefore, we stress here this aspect, which is already a given in our society. in this sense, the petition requires the integration of criminology into the National Classification of Professions, as well as recognition within the framework of IEFP, INE and the IRS Code, but also highlights an aspect that has passed here, within the framework of the interventions that preceded it, a little side by side, which is that in future public competitions for areas of criminologists, these professionals can perform functions for which their degree explicitly arises in the qualifications requested. We have here a set of draft resolutions that the CFP will vote in favour, and we have no doubt in voting in favour of these projects that recommend the resolution of this problem, but we want to highlight two aspects. First, it is always curious to see the PSD and CDS-PP recommend to the PSD/CDS-PP government to do something about this issue. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Then we want to say here that the PSD/CDS-PP government had four years to solve this "tremendous injustice", according to the words of the PSD Member, and nothing did, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u93	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u94	We wanted to recall here that the CFP, faced with this injustice that the criminologists face, questioned the government, particularly the Minister of Justice, regarding the recognition of the course in certain public competitions for access to professions and the response of the Minister of Justice was a disappointment. It is because, contrary to what the majority PSD / CDS-PP makes explicit in its draft resolution, the response of three lines, by the Ministry of Justice, is that the Judicial Police opened a competition for the category of inspector-in-stationary, through an office, in the Journal of the Republic, which does not concern the case, to which the holders of the diploma in Criminology can compete. Now, potatoes! That they could compete, we all knew, the problem is that the Ministry of Justice does not effectively recognize the course of criminologist as a course, as a requested and expressly recognized qualification and, therefore, the obstacle to the recognition of the profession is today in the government. We hope, and therefore we will vote in favour of the draft resolutions that are on the table, that this situation effectively unlocks and proceeds to the recognition of these professionals. In the face of a course approved by the State itself, as a necessary qualification in the internal security services, in the different modalities that exist and where they can perform functions, being a necessary and recognized course, it is unacceptable that the Government itself is the obstacle to the recognition of this profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u95	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u96	In conclusion, I would like to say that we will continue to follow this process and this fair claim by Portuguese criminologists, either with this government or with the future government that provides itself to our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u97	Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro has the floor for an intervention, in the short time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a very brief manner, and also here, in the path of popular proverbs, I would like to say to this House that, in the course of my country's gangs, it is customary to say that "after you are married, you do not lack any suitors". [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] And it is also customary to say, on the contrary, that, after the child born, there are always doubts and fundamental questions, at the time of paternity or the assumption of paternity as to the result of a relationship. It does not intend here this bench, this majority or even the Social Democratic Youth, which I chair, and which has taken the lead of this initiative, to debate thoroughly or, moreover, to create any kind of discussion on this subject, we intend, first of all, to solve this problem by helping the lives of the hundreds of young people who need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u99	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u100	We are, of course, available, and we have made this commitment, so that, according to an open and comprehensive dialogue with the parties that make up this House, we can arrive at a solution that effectively improves the lives of this group of young people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u101	With a few years' delay!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u102	Mrs. Members, there are no more entries, so the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1483/ XII ( 4 ) is closed. ( a ), 1542 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 1549 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and petition No 261 / XII ( 2. ( a). Let us turn to petition No 473 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering ( SUPERA), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to establish legislation on residences and improve the care provided to persons with serious motor disabilities. Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the beginning of this speech, I would begin by complimenting the petitioners for the initiative and for the important focus that it reveals. We have already spoken here in this plenary in this Parliament about the need to build an increasingly effective path for the integration of people with disabilities. This petition also helps us in this way, it brings new ideas and clues to the development of policies that any government should adopt, and that we welcome, because it is an encouragement that we can increasingly produce more efficient work. And this leads us to make here a history of what has been the action of this government, particularly through the Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, precisely on many of the points that are mentioned. It has been an important aspect to support and encourage the experimentation of innovative projects, which has been done, for a long time by this government, in the area of disability: an action in dialogue and proximity, always with the representative organizations of these people, which has allowed the exercise of decision-making and the experimentation of innovative and emerging interventions for these people. This also includes much at a point where this petition is about autonomy, the ability of these people to have access to their homes, how they can live in their homes with the greatest possible independence. And, in this area, from the policies that dictated the creation and professional recognition of caregivers to all the policies that the Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has carried out, they all go in the direction of this external aid to these people, in their home, in their home, where they feel more accomplished, happier and with greater autonomy, with the appreciation of their lives, whether of the professionals who help them. And we must not forget that this is not only done by the professional way, it is also done by encouraging policies of good neighbourliness, policies that integrate the person increasingly and better into their circumstances. Therefore, there is already a road towards personal care and hygiene, domestic activities, food and nutrition care, daily instrumental activities, travel to health services and to work itself, mediating activities and social participation in civic education, culture, sports and leisure. We are also talking about the architectural issue here. We do not placate it, it is very important and the State itself has yet to take important steps in this matter, but we have done a lot, although it is a path that does not end here and which must continue. We also remember, and it is very important, that in Portugal 2020 the Government has lines dedicated only to this matter of autonomy and the enhancement of the autonomy of these people either through the network of close caregivers, either through the neighbourhood networks, that I have already talked about, or people close to people with disabilities and inability to develop the support to be provided, in order to avoid institutionalization by all means, which is what, whenever possible, seems desirable to us. This is a way. It is an investment path, it is a way in which this government has clearly invested, it is a path that does not end today and our permanent attention, dedicated, must be to these people our way of life, because it is for the exercise of rights, it is for the exercise of democracy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u104	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u105	... and it is, Mr President, for the exercise of human rights that we must always fight in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u106	Mr David Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group welcomes SUPERA, the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering, as the first petitioner, and all citizens who subscribe to the petition, with more than 5400 signatures. In order to defend the rights of people with severe motor disabilities, the adoption of a new model of approach in the creation of infrastructures and residences prepared to receive persons with severe motor disabilities, petitioners present a set of concrete proposals aimed at creating dignified and independent living conditions. In fact, there are still many concrete examples of lack of legislation or non-application of the current law governing this matter, specifically in infrastructures of local, central and regional power, either in the social sector or in private homes, where we witness architectural barriers, preventing the mobility of people with severe motor disabilities. The PCP, which accompanies and identifies all these problems posed by the petitioners, and in the face of the government inertia of the PSD / CDS, which refuse to see what is the reality felt by these citizens, presented a legislative initiative aimed at the creation of a pilot programme to support independent life for people with aggravated disabilities. in its own housing, with conditions of independence and autonomy, promoting the inclusion in the professional life of people with disabilities, the PCP proposed the creation of a pilot programme, in joint and with the involvement of organizations of people with disabilities, which aimed to define the objectives, criteria, types of response, amount of support, nature of support and procedures of a future social provision of support for independent life for people with aggravated and reduced autonomy. To be approved, the CFP proposal would not only improve the self-esteem of these citizens and alleviate pressure on family members, such as providing people with disabilities with more opportunities for full participation in the community's economic and social life. The PSD and CDS have dropped our proposal! We have also proposed the creation of a pilot service of personal assistants, with training in various areas, especially in the care of hygiene, household tasks and social services, such as support in employment, access to sports equipment, culture and leisure and in the development of social life. The PSD and CDS have dropped our proposal! The CFP will continue to be struck by the establishment of adequate legislation for citizens with disabilities which guarantees all constitutionally planned rights and a path with dignity and independence for all Portuguese, I repeat, for all Portuguese, in respect of the values of April. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to greet the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering, which presents this petition. It is ironic that this Society, the SUPERA, should present this petition to us when the Government ended with the course of Rehabilitation Engineering at UTAD (University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro), thus preventing these professionals from exercising their activity, but also doing everything to ensure that the architectural barriers, so important, and other barriers are not broken down, because this message is a message that the Government gives to society, which is very explicit: for the Government, rehabilitation, rehabilitation engineering, disability are not, in fact, a priority. So they can well the government, the PSD and the CDS say they have all solved when what was done was very little. You say that you have increased the capacity to receive, to increase the number of beds; to promote the training of caregivers, as has already been said, have formed 400 personal assistants, close caregivers, when what they have done has been to deepen home support. These answers are important, but by themselves they are not enough. For this reason, Dear Members, while the Government and the Members of the majority do not distinguish what are people with and without capacity for work, while they do not give conditions to people with disabilities who have the capacity to work, who want to work, who need support for autonomy, will not be developing policies directed at people with disabilities in their diversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u110	Pure demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u111	But also those who enter the State budget for 2015 with a cut of EUR 100 million, invoking a social ceiling that has never been able to explain; who invents, after very tight, a social allowance of disease, a benefit that does not exist; who in recent days speaks of a social protection rate to try to show service, social protection rate that does not exist, it is natural that they are the same as those who look at people with disabilities without meeting their individual characteristics, their realities and their needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u112	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u113	Innovative projects, Mr. CDS Member? Oh, my God! They're stopped!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u114	Stop? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u115	Participation of people with disabilities? Oh, my God! The citizens have been discarded! They told us here in Parliament that they were rejected, however, after their vigilance at the bottom of Parliament's ladders, the government has deceived them with promises that it has not fulfilled. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, disabled people who have the capacity for work want to have autonomy, want to work, want to have direct funding to be able to choose the personal assistant who best adapts to their characteristics and their situation and, above all, want to stop being the eternal beneficiaries to where you continue to push them to be able to be contributors. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Raúl de Almeida.]] That is where the matter lies, Mr President! But the government doesn't understand. On the other hand, whether you understand or do not have the humility to want to learn, to learn from people with disabilities, to whom you speak, and not to give autonomy to these citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u116	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u117	This is not the position of the Socialist Party. Persons with disabilities have rights which are enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in instruments which have been signed and ratified by the Portuguese State, such as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u118	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u119	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the governments, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, everything needs to be done to guarantee these people conditions of autonomy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u120	Sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u121	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are, of course, to welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing, a greeting which also extends to the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation Engineering and Accessibility for the work it has carried out in the dynamisation of this petition, which calls for the creation of a legislative framework on residences and improvements in the care provided to people with severe motor disabilities. We are therefore discussing a petition and a matter which, from the point of view of the Greens Ecological Party, is of the greatest importance and of which today is absolutely unquestionable, especially if we consider the way in which the PSD/CDS Government has looked at the importance of social benefits, — which is clearly visible in the frightening cuts which, over time, this government has made social benefits and which have further aggravated the delicate and fragile situation in which the people who are now, and well, are the object of attention by the citizens who have subscribed to this petition. In fact, this government has not only failed to carry out fair and appropriate updates either of disability pensions or of disability pensions. The Government has also made substantial cuts in these pensions, which, of course, has aggravated the situation of people benefiting from the same social benefits. The same is true of the support for third-party assistance, the supplement for dependence or, even, the monthly life support, whose poor values are far from the needs of people, in the face of indifference and even the insensitivity of the government which, after all, has only eyes on the bank. It is therefore important to stress the defence of the fundamental rights of people with severe motor disabilities who need residences that are properly adapted to their capabilities, but also of means to be able to hire someone to provide them with the necessary support. It is therefore imperative to promote the quality of life of people with severe motor disabilities and create the conditions for them to exercise their citizenship. It is only left to tell us that we share the concerns of the petitioners and that we fully follow their purposes and objectives. The Greens Ecological Party has already expressed its full readiness to, together with the other parliamentary groups, find legislative solutions to meet the demands expressed in this petition. We're waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS. We're waiting, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u123	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Conceição Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u124	Mr President, I begin by complimenting you, as well as the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the more than 5000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition, which, as has already been said, has as its first petitioner SUPERA, the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering. It is also good to say that, in the hearing that we heard the petitioners, they were accompanied by some elements of the Indignant Deficient Movement, to whom we also greet. It's good to remember them! The Signatories of the petition, as has already been said, intend to create legislation on residences and improve the care provided to persons with motor disabilities. They base this claim on fundamental rights that assist people with severe motor disabilities and on the lack of conditions of entities or associations to receive such persons. This Parliamentary Group and this Government follow these claims and I would like to say to you, Mrs Idália Serrão, that this Parliamentary Group does not accept moral lessons on the issue of disability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u126	We are not here to delude the disabled, nor the Portuguese in general, as you have deceived us by promising a colourless country that did not exist and that led us almost to bankruptcy. That's the truth, Your Honor! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] We heard the people and also heard those people who were at the bottom of the stairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u127	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u128	You don't seem to want to hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u129	It's bad will!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u130	He doesn't want to hear it interrupt! [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] But, Mrs Deputies, this government has taken a number of initiatives and I can tell you that even in the areas of architecture and architectural barriers it has made amendments to the Civil Code which today often allow condominiums or those who have family members with problems to place access ramps or platforms. It was also this government — whether or not you would like to hear — that increased the number of residential homes, with areas for couples and autonomous rooms to receive their visits. For it is, of 201 agreements in 2011, we went to 267 agreements and more than 5000 users.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u131	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u132	This is the reality. In autonomous residences, from 15 agreements we made to 50 agreements; from 99 to 275. This is politics! This is working for people who need our support! It was also this PSD Parliamentary Group, together with the CDS, that presented a bill to improve the conditions for granting credit to the housing of the disabled person today Law No 64 / 2014. It's good to remember, Your Honor! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u133	It is also this government which, as Mr Raúl de Almeida has already said, has entered the necessary funds, because, without money, and it is customary to say — recently, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro used some popular sayings — that "without eggs they are not made omelettes". It is therefore necessary to enter the funds so that we can create the models of independent life. This government did it, and did not do it in illusions, I repeat, it did not do it in illusions! Mrs Deputy, this proposal is already contained in the publication of Portaria No 97 / 2015 of 30 March 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u135	This is the reality! So they are not words, nor vain promises. This operational programme, in addition to this, as has already been said, provides for a network of proximity caregivers, and therefore, in relation to applications, it is expected to be opened for a short time. We are sure that these programmes will fulfil many of the hopes and demands of people with disabilities. We therefore welcome once again the subscribers of this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u136	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u137	I also want to tell Mr David Costa that we did not approve your projects because they were a redundancy of work that had already been developed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u138	We need to get rid of something like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u139	That's why it's good to record.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u140	We don't want redundancy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u141	I also want to say here again that people with disabilities can believe that this government and this coalition will never leave behind who deserves our attention and commitment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, in the person of the Portuguese Society of Rehabilitation and Accessibility Engineering, who have stimulated this petition signed by more than 5000 citizens. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not like it and ask, please, to avoid, when serious matters are discussed, making only balances of what some have already done or of what others have already done. People are sick of this speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u144	Look at this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u145	This problem is too serious to be told about the little things that some and others have done or have not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u146	I thought you were referring to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u147	I would therefore like to put this issue so important that it is invoked here in this petition at the heart of a serious debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u148	That's the great history of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u149	Many things have already been done, small things, but they have great importance in terms of the path of society itself and of concept as to how people with disabilities today view themselves. This path of society is not the flag of any government, it is the flag of the country, of all of us, individually considered and collectively committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u150	Only you gentlemen have flags!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u151	This discussion that is constantly being made of slippers and balance sheets is a discussion that does nothing to the seriousness of the debate, because we are talking about absolutely serious things. This was the appeal I wanted to make. Now speaking in the petition, on this line, I believe that we all have an obligation to assume that these citizens and citizens must have autonomy, an independent life and all contributions are important. This petition gives us clues to a deeper, more appropriate legislation and the government should assume, in a modest way, that much still needs to be done to ensure that the path of equality in difference, which is the way of democracy and freedom, has its fullness. It is in this perspective that the Left Block always discusses the issues of citizens and citizens with disabilities. I conclude by saying that on 28 April this year we held a hearing subordinate to the theme "Promoting personal autonomy, independent life", where we heard many movements and reports in the first person to call us to change legislation. This legislation on architectural barriers is of great importance and will have to recognize the parties that have been in the government that is not all done and that there is a long way to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u152	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u153	It is this responsibility that brings us all together today and that makes us more responsible for who is in government, of course. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u154	The Bureau no longer records entries concerning petition No 473 / XII ( 4. ( a). Thus, we turn to item 7 of the agenda, which consists of the discussion of petition No 450 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Paulo Jorge Melich Farinha and others, for the establishment of a public service for the carriage of passengers by ferryboat between Madeira Island and the Continent, together with draft resolution No 1546 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ferryboat transport between the Continent and Madeira ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners, sharing the analysis and the diagnosis they make. We know that insularity has serious costs for autonomous regions—and this applies to Madeira and the Azores—we know that these costs must be combated by public policies and we also know that austerity has affected autonomous regions at the tax level, in terms of aid and transfers that are so much needed to combat the effects of insularity. But the effects of insularity must also be combated with an efficient, accessible and diversified transport network that responds to the needs of these populations. It happens that this is not being fulfilled at this time in the case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and it begins immediately in the connection between the continent and Madeira which is currently only assured by an air route. That can't be and it's easy to understand why. We cannot have part of our country solely dependent on a means of transport or airport infrastructure. It is easy to see that in the day when something happens to the air, weather or because there is a problem with the air infrastructures, the Madeira area is isolated from the rest of the country and the rest of the world because of the lack of transport alternatives. It is easy to see that the citizens and citizens of Madeira, when they move to the continent, should be able to bring their cars in order to be able to move here, as national citizens who are, without having to rent a car, something that would be unnecessary if there were a ferry that could do such transport. It is easy to see that a citizen or citizen who is subject to an operation and who is prohibited from flying or to whom it is recommended not to travel by air must have an alternative to travel between his or her residence and the continent, where there are hospital centres that, for example, operate cataracts. And they should be able to do it as quickly as possible, with as much comfort as possible. It is easy even to realize that the citizen who is afraid to fly cannot stay forever condemned in Madeira and has to be able to access the continent, has to be able to leave the Autonomous Region of Madeira. For this reason, it seems to me that no one defends the non-introduction, or reintroduction, of a means of maritime transport such as the ferryboat linking the continent with the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u156	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. This is what we have been recommending by adding another point: that it be quickly reintroduced and that this reintroduction be done according to public service criteria. That is why this is the case: public service, territorial cohesion, economic and social development of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That's what we came to propose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u158	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are debating not only a petition but also a draft resolution by BE on a very important subject. I begin by greeting, in the person of Mr. Paulo Jorge Farinha, all the petitioners who brought this matter to the national Parliament. This is a matter of particular relevance and which has been of concern to us all, the island people. It is never too much to say that those living on an island have to face enormous constraints on mobility and also obstacles to trade in goods between the continent and autonomous regions. It is also good to remember that in the last century we had passenger transport, up to 1978, between the continent and autonomous regions. There was a 23-year-old interview and, more recently, in 2008, we had an operation between Madeira, the Canary Islands and Portimão, which lasted until 2012. We therefore believe that a country like ours, with a relevant maritime history and that in the past had a merchant marine on a global scale, should focus on its priorities. I must say that Madeira and the Azores are the only two regions in Europe without shipping passengers to their continent, and that should be a good reason for us all to find a solution to reduce these asymmetries. Recently, it is true, with the official visit of Mr. Prime Minister and also of the Minister of Economic Affairs to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, this matter was placed on the agenda and a joint committee was established between the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Government of the Republic to find a solution for the return of the transport of passengers and goods between Madeira and the continent. We therefore hope that this subject will be worth all the attention and that all the energy will be put in order to enhance the mobility of Madeirans to the continent, but also that it will provide an opportunity for the continental people and those who arrive here, from other places, can also reach Madeira. It is an opportunity to bring people closer together, to promote trade and thus reduce the asymmetries that are evident and that call us all. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u160	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners and recalling that the Madeirans and the Portuguese people are and must be Portuguese citizens of full right. Their rights, mobility and territorial cohesion cannot be left to the taste of the agendas and the interests of a supposed market which, of course, does not appear. And when we speak of the object of the petition, it corresponds to the need to create an alternative to air travel between the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the continent, which would contribute to the correction of inequalities regarding mobility in national territory and to give shape to the principle of territorial continuity. Even because the idea that maritime transport has its own value and strategic role in development, cohesion and national sovereignty cannot be ignored. with regard to this outermost region, we believe that we must support all possibilities for improvement and progress in public transport to provide for the needs of the people and the local and regional economy, particularly in the maritime transport of / and to the continent and between islands, despite the fact that there is already a mobility allowance for the carriage of passengers by sea which, in fact, has no place yet to apply because, at the moment, there is no link. in Madeira, there was talk of the restoration of the maritime connection allegedly for the month of May — maritime connection that for some time was carried out by a Spanish operator, more specifically the Canary Islands, but this has not happened so far and it is said that it will be there more by the end of the year. Let's see! With regard to the solution set out both in the petition and in the draft resolution, it seems to us that it would be more appropriate to consider the effective promotion of the public service that would allow a stronger guarantee in the field of maritime transport both as regards the service provided and as regards the prices practised. In this regard, we recall the position and proposal put forward years ago by the Union of Captains, Officers, Pilots, Commissioners and Engineers of the Merchant Navy that the country could take advantage of the opportunity of the new Community Framework just to undertake this strategic investment for our development and for this bet on the sea. This proposal aimed at the dynamisation of a merchant marine of national flag, trade and fishing, supported by the capabilities of national shipyards. Clearly the policy options followed by the troika, or the troika — the national and the foreign — have been contrary to this strategy for the development of the national maritime and port sector and, in the light of the foregoing, we continue to depend, in practice, on the capabilities and options of operators from other countries, and therefore, the pre-announcements and announcements of support and the support decided upon always depend on any services that pass and scale there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u162	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u163	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we do not give up, Mr. Members, to bring to this discussion this fundamental point: Portugal must once again have a true merchant marine and must again have a public service policy, in defence of populations, territorial cohesion, development and sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u164	Mr Jacinto Serrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words go to the more than 4500 petitioners who, in a self-sufficient way, have done everything to restore the maritime passenger connections between the continent and Madeira. They are citizens from all over the country — Madeira, the continent and even the Azores — and they are the maximum expression of the feeling of national unity that unites all Portuguese. According to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it is mainly the responsibility of the State to promote the correction of inequalities arising from the insularity of the regions, aiming at the full realization of the citizenship rights of residents on the islands. These principles, constitutional and statutory, refer to the obligation of the Government to ensure regular and accessible transport for the mobility of all Portuguese and to safeguard the principle of social, economic and territorial cohesion. Thus, this petition refers to the need for a new model of maritime transport and a political vision by those who rule, turned to the sea, to enhance our economy and also to the affirmation of our country in the world. Of course, these claims can only be achieved if the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government are willing to remove the current barriers in the Portuguese ports and, above all, the courage to face up to the established interests, interests which are clearly far from serving the common good. Finally, and even as rapporteur for this petition, I leave two comments which I find relevant. We look with great concern at the lack of response from the Government of the Republic to the problems identified and which are their direct executive responsibility. There is also the irresponsible and unacceptable attitude of the regional governments, which have created all and more obstacles in the operationalization of the Funchal Port, which have partly determined the abandonment of the link established by the private operator that has successfully made this connection for four years and without state subsidies. Mr CDS, who has just mentioned that there is now a willingness by the Government of the Republic to set up a committee, I must say that this reminds me of an old classic: when you do not want to solve a problem, you create a committee to study it! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u166	Now, Mr President, the problems are identified and what we need is concrete measures to solve the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u167	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Gomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition we consider today is based on three different bases. There is a clear legal-constitutional basis that emanates from the political-administrative status of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in particular the principle of solidarity and the principle of territorial continuity, which provides for State intervention in order to reduce the asymmetries generated by the condition of ultraperipheral. There is a second basis, a social foundation, which has to do with the creation of a viable alternative to the air transport of cargo and persons to Portuguese residents of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. There is a third basis, an economic foundation, which has to do with reducing the over-costs generated for Madeira's economy by moving away from the Madeira market in relation to the market on the continent and all the other markets outside the island. However, all of these three grounds are mentioned in the text of the petition and each of them alone justifies our sensitivity and our acceptance of this petition. But there is a fourth reason, a fourth basis, which supports this petition and the measures we are debating here, which is a national foundation and which has to do with our character as the Atlantic Nation. We are proud in the country we are, we are proud in the different regions that constitute our country and in the social, human and cultural wealth that bring Portugal. We are even proud of the geographical diversity that our regions give to the country and the geo-strategic growth that, in particular, the autonomys give us in the Atlantic space. But we also know that the more we stick to the notion of Atlantic Portugal, the more strongly we must defend the idea that no Portuguese can be hostage to the region where he is born and no Portuguese deserves to have on his head the status of second or third category citizen because of the way the transport system is organized in his country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is what is at stake here, the creation of a more cohesive, more united Portugal, and therefore stronger, and we know that the fight for these values, in a post-crisis scenario, is not an easy struggle, but this Assembly of the Republic cannot resign itself from this struggle, this Assembly of the Republic does not resign from this debate, does not resign from this debate. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the way is outlined, the options are made and it is to your sensitivity for this petition, for these measures, that I call for us to consider it, that we accept it and take a step forward in order to be able to meet a more cohesive Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u169	There are no more entries on this point. We will move on to the next and final point of our agenda, the assessment of petition No 452 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by SINTAP ( Union of Public Administration Workers and Public Entities), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to take urgent measures against the application of the social security requalification scheme. Mr António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the PS, I would like to welcome and congratulate SINTAP on this initiative — the defence of jobs in social security — which the Socialist Party adds, as a way to defend the dignity and quality in the functioning of public services. The petitioners of these measures call for urgent action to put an end to the dismantling of the social and legal state, as is law and justice, by revoking the decision to apply the requalification in social security. They consider the petitioners to be in need of workers in the most diverse areas of social security, and they have lost some 2500 workers in the last three years. In view of this data, they consider it irrational that social security is weakened by the dispatch to requalification / dismissal of 697 workers and workers, which is no more than seeking to extinguish on the staff map, blindly, these jobs. This petition entered in December 2014 and, despite the fact that the time has elapsed, it maintains all the time and opportunity, and therefore makes all the sense to its appreciation. The country is witnessing the destruction of everything that involves public services. This government has an antipathy, not to say persecution, to public services. This blindness is dangerous because it questions the dignity and quality of the functioning of public services, in particular in the presence of the public, in the processing areas of benefits and contributions, in the technical follow-up of dysfunctional families, in the social responses in the IPSS, in the social intervention of the private network, to which licences were issued for social security. The departure of professionals weakens the functioning of the various areas of social security, leading to the inevitable closure of their services and complicates the lives of citizens. For the PS, the insistence of this government in these erratic policies only exacerbates social inequalities in our country, where we witness a degradation and abandonment of public services. We're sitting in the CPCJ's operation. More and more we have more children in situations of abandonment and lack of protection, victims of the growth of child poverty, given their natural weaknesses and vulnerabilities. Child poverty in Portugal has reached frightening numbers that lead us to remember the long times of sadness and fear before 25 April. It is time to stop the wrong policies of this government, we do not want to return to the time of the intervention song, which said: « Children starve with their teeth buried in bread that no one else eats ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u171	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, to welcome the 4123 citizens who have subscribed to petition No 452 / XII for the defence of jobs in social security, which we are discussing today. The civic exercise that the petitioners have exercised must be emphasized, because it strengthens our democratic system, giving expression to the expectations and aspirations of the citizens. I am sorry that demagogic phrases, such as those used by the Socialist Party Member here, using « children», using « hunger», fall within this debate. You may be on an election campaign, but with this matter we are not; it is too serious and noble for us to use it. [[PSD applause.]] But let's see what these petitioners ask. The civic exercise of these petitioners seeks to draw the attention of this Assembly of the Republic to the issue of the dispatch of 614 social security workers for requalification. Let us remember a situation that is extremely important here today. First of all, this has already been discussed so much that we have all brought up what we think about what is being discussed here. But, out of respect for citizens and petitioners, I would remind you again that the requalification process is not a dismissal process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u173	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u174	Once again, the Socialist Party Member was deceived; during the other debates, the Members of the other opposition parties were deceived. There wasn't a single dismissal, the process...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u175	There will be!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u176	The honourable Member states, 'there will be', and I can also say 'there will be', Mrs Deputies! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u177	But there were already very skilled workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u178	No one will be fired. The process of requalification, it must be remembered, was created by the Socialist Party, in the Government of Eng.o José Socrates. at the time, the Socialist Party was not pardoned. At the time, the Ministry of Agriculture referred some 7,000 Ministry officials to retraining and at the time you did not raise your voice, on the contrary, defended him. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u179	Let's get up, let's get up! And the PSD voted for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u180	In summary, I want to say here, in conclusion, that of the 614 social security workers concerned, 154 have already been placed in public services in public administration services. This is numbers, it's facts! The rest will attend, and some are already attending, training actions that enable them to raise their skills. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u181	How many? How many?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u182	It is good that we are strict and that we do not use people and their feelings as a flag of electoral campaign. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u183	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners and, above all, greeting the social security workers, who have, over the past few months, waged a very brave and determined struggle to defend jobs and to defend public, universal and solidarity social security. [[PCP applause.]] And Mrs Borges said so much, but she forgot to say what was essential. As rapporteur for this petition, you have forgotten to give account to this House and say that the Government has not even been able to respond to the Assembly of the Republic on this petition. Take a good look at the time you spent exchanging blame between PS, PSD and CDS, which are the three responsible for the existence of this aberration that is professional requalification and that before it was mobility, and you forgot to say that the government did not even respond! But it is important to say here that the date of this petition, December 2014, was also the date of a strike of social security workers that was decisive, from then on, for the situation of workers with disabilities to be guarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u186	And if the government withdrew from 14 workers with disabilities it was because its representative structures, including the Common Front, forced and demanded it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u187	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u188	This situation is unacceptable because all these workers had permanent functions, they all needed social security services. We have heard several specific examples of how early intervention district officials and coordinators, technicians who constituted the multidisciplinary teams of support to the courts and technicians who integrated the coordination of the family mothers and families were removed by this government. And they were removed because this government, on the same day that it informed the workers that « the street door was the maid of the house », was conducting interviews with trainees and for employment-inclusion contracts to fill permanent jobs in the rooms right next to where it was informing people that « the street door was the maid of the house ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u190	This is very revealing that the strategy of this government is to replace workers with rights by workers without rights. We understand that this is unacceptable and is a mark of the policy of this government. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to say the following: the CFP has always been against the mobility of the former Government of the Socialist Party, unlike Mrs Mercês Borges, the PSD, who voted in favour of PS mobility. However, the PCP is consistent, both against PS mobility and against PSD and CDS mobility, and you were in favour of PS mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u191	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u192	It is that PS, PSD and CDS defend the same because the PREMAC ( Central Administration Reduction and Improvement Plan ), the policy of redundancy of public servants is the PS, PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u194	Privatization of public services is part of the PS, PSD and CDS matrix. That is why we are not left to attack this government. It is that the problem is not only of professional requalification, it is what is behind this proposal, which is the destruction of the social functions of the State. I therefore conclude, Mr President, by saying that the CFP's commitment is to the workers of the Public Administration, it is to the workers of social security, because the CFP's commitment is to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u195	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u196	Mr President, I have just heard Mrs Rita Rato and the honourable Member have confirmed what is a consistent feature of the CFP in these matters and throughout history: the CFP is against everything, always!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u197	That argument is new! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u198	Moreover, if this government or any previous government suddenly opened a tender for 500 000 public officials, the CFP was here shouting and saying that it was inadmissible because it had to be at least 1 million, 500 000 was little. [[Rice from PCP MEP Rita Rat.]] So the PCP is against everything. The CFP will only be satisfied when everyone works for the state and the state is completely bankrupt. That's where the PCP will be satisfied. Now, what scares me is not the Portuguese Communist Party. It frightens me, yes, that the Socialist Party has this position now. Mr António Cardoso, with all the personal consideration I have for you, I cannot understand how the Socialist Party, which has effectively created mobility and has strongly defended it, through its Government, its ministers, its high leaders, of Members with interventions here in this plenary (I remind you of its quality and seriousness, as Mrs Maria José Gamboa) has now held this position. The PS has always defended mobility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u199	No sacrifice of services!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u200	...requalification as essential for the improvement, modernization and best quality of Public Administration. And in this context, only in a ministry, as has already been said, sent, from a seat, 7000 employees of the Public Administration for mobility, saying precisely that it was to requalify them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u201	It's not the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u202	So I cannot accept that, in good faith, the Socialist Party today has this speech in the face of a specific situation of 600 and such workers who have been sent to mobility. And this petition here under discussion has today, because, in 2014 when it was made, the statement of the opposition was that there was no requalification,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u203	And there isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u204	...there was no reintegration or any possibility of reintegration of these workers, and that that was a pretext for an immediate collective dismissal, it was only a matter of time. Now, the coming of this petition the discussion to plenary is now very useful, because we can say that, contrary to all that has been said, of these 600 and such people there was no one who was fired, more than 100, almost 200, are already re-integrated, and another large group is being re-qualified, with a view to acquiring new skills for their future reintegration. Moreover, the bulk of the people of the ISS ( Institute of Social Security ) sent to requalification had no functions that even had to do with the core of the activity of the ISS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u205	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u206	They were nurses, teachers, operational assistants...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u207	It's fake! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u208	Mrs Deputy, I hear you say lies every day, but I do not say it because of a matter of shame. Therefore, I would like to see the honourable Member, mainly addressing someone who, unlike the honourable Member, tries to be realistic...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u210	Mr President, I am in the floor and therefore I am speaking in the manner in which I wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u211	Please, Mr President, but do not enter into dialogue. And I'm asking the ladies. Members who respect Mr Artur Rêgo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u212	Therefore, Mrs. Member, I am offering you these epithetes. As I was saying, they were basically nurses, teachers and operational assistants. And the appointment of nurses and teachers for the functions they performed, respectively, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, and not the ISS. However, contrary to what they were saying — that the sending of these 600 and such requalification workers would destruct the services of the ISS, which we have always denied — the fact is that, regardless of this remittance for requalification, the expenditure of the administration was reduced by 19 % compared to 2011 and the average time of allocation of unemployment benefit, sickness benefit, social unemployment allowance and family allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u213	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u214	I shall conclude, Mr President. And none of the essential services of the ISS were affected by this requalification. In conclusion, the workers were not fired, many of them were already reinstated and others were in requalification, neither the ISS and its competences and functions were minimally affected by sending these workers to requalification. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u215	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition has today because the truth is that what we witnessed was a collective dismissal of 614 people. That's the reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u217	Mrs. Mercès Borges says that no one has yet been fired. However, Mrs Deputy, the law says that the contract of workers, which is not a contract of employment in public office, ceases after two years in requalification process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u218	If they're not reinstated!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u219	Mr. Member, how many people are posted? Oh, my God! Mr. Artur Rêgo says there are 200 of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u220	Almost 200!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u221	Curious! ... Mr. Minister does not give us this. And the President of the ISS, at the hearing we did here, didn't give us any data either. Then the gentlemen. Members say this very important thing: « We must not play with people and their feelings at this time». And I ask: and what did you do, when, without any credible study—and it was demonstrated that you had no credible study when Mr. ISS, here, couldn't base the reason for requalification, had no study—they went outside the essential services of social action,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u222	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u223	...because that's what we're talking about,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u225	...people with 20 and 30 years of service and some with more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u226	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u227	So they didn't play anything with people's feelings? Oh, my God! Moreover, have they not played anything with the feelings of the people, who have seen their protective commissions of children and young people at risk without people?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u228	That's under control!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u229	There's nothing controlled! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u230	He is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u231	Santiago do Cacém continues in the same, the local service of Seixal remains closed. They have degraded the services, played with the people, and now they have come to say, like ‘cry crocodile tears’, that there is someone here, who is not them, who is playing, in election campaign, with people's feelings. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] You played, in social security, with the most basic feelings of professionals and users, degraded the quality of some services...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u232	Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u233	Obviously, it was not all of the services, Mrs. By the way, they haven't all fired yet, but they'll be there, because that's what they want! They want to turn social security into something else than public and universal social security. That's the project. They like that little charity thing more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u234	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u235	But when I say they haven't degraded all the services, I mean that obviously they haven't fired all the workers yet. But that is your intention, to transform social security into something different, to transform the social state into a different state, because that is your ideological project.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u236	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u237	Therefore, it has reason to be this discussion here today, because, after all, these workers were put on edge outside the services where they had know-how. And now they go from INA home to INA, from INA to finance service, from financial service to the « institute I don't know how many», saying: « See if you need me there». And in view of this, do you say you didn't play with people's feelings? Oh, my God! So what did you do? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-24.u238	Mrs. Members, with no further inscriptions, the assessment of petition No 452 / XII ( 4 ) is completed. ( a) as well as our work today is completed. [[The next plenary session will take place tomorrow for 14 a.m. and 30 minutes, with the following items on the agenda:]] First of all, the joint discussion of draft law No 896 / XII ( 4 ) will be held. ( a ) — The Order of Social Assistants ( PS ) and petition No 522 / XII ( 4 ) shall be established. ( a ) — from the initiative of David Filipe Capt. Martins and others, requesting the general vote and specialization of Bill No. 896 / XII ( 4. ( a ) which establishes the Order of Social Assistants until the end of the XII Legislation ; The joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1463 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Recognition of patients with fibromyalgia ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1514 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by effectively complying with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ) of petition No 463 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Fernanda Margarida Neves de Sá ( Portuguese Association of Patients with Fibromyalgia), requesting that the Assembly of the Legislature in the sense of an assessment of patients with fibromyalgia according to their degree of disability, and draft resolution No 1547 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for the recognition and protection of persons with fibromyalgia ( BE); The third point consists of the joint debate of the projects of lein.o 971 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of measures wrongly regarded as job promoters, such as IEC, IEC + and traineeships, in order to meet the permanent needs of public services and enterprises ( CFP ), 972 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the protection of workers ( PCP ) and 1010 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — prohibits and regulates the use of employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +( BE ), generally and draft resolution No 1548 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to combat precariousness and amends the rules of the employment stages(BE); Fourthly, the joint discussion will generally take place on the projects of lein.o 895 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in public service ( BE), 860 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers by the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code and the repeal of Law No 68 / 2013 of 29 August establishing the duration of the normal working time of workers in public service ( CFP ) and 109 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens); The joint debate on draft resolution No 1550 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Ensuring a new paradigm of control of the animal population ( The Greens) and, in general, of the projects of lein.o 1008 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the modernization of official animal collection centres and municipal veterinary services ( PCP ) and 1012 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of compulsive slaughter of animals at collection centres ( BE); Sixth place, petition No 472 / XII will be appreciated ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Maria de Fátima Marques Carvalho and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to set up teachers under a single-doctor scheme who started their duties in 1978 / 1979 and 1979 / 1980 of a retirement scheme equal to that provided for in Law No 77 / 2009 of 13 August; Finally, together, petition No 476 / XII ( 4 ) will be appreciated. a ) — Submitted by Suzana Raquel Matias da Silva Batoca and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to take up a set of measures to enable sustainability and promote the dignity of specialized artistic education and draft resolutions 1529 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes funding to specialized artistic music and dance schools in conditions to ensure their stability and quality education ( PCP ), 1541 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard specialized artistic education through the stability of its financing model and transfers to educational institutions ( PS ) and 1545 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Financing of artistic schools by the State budget, guaranteeing the right to artistic education for all students ( BE ). I remember the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, today, for 19 hours, the exhibition will be inaugurated in honor of the Eusebius. Good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 12 minutes.]]
