ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by the President, the drafts of lein.os 756 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Suspension of bankruptcy and executive sales of property for tax debt ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 757 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name « Union of Freguesias de Santarém ( Marvila ), Santa Iria da Ribeira de Santarém, Santarém ( S. Salvador ) and Santarém ( S. Nicolau ) », in the municipality of Santarém, for « Union of Freguesias da Cidade de Santarém » ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission and draft resolution No 1220 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cancel the public invitation to tender for the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( PS ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u3	Let us then start the first item on the agenda, which consists of political declarations. The order of intervention by parties is as follows: CDS-PP, PCP, BE, and PSD. I will give the floor to the first speaker this afternoon, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, to make a political statement. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Six years of socialist governance led us to three years of troika, led us to three years of sacrifice, to three years of Memorandum of Understanding, to three years of economic and financial rescue. After the ransom, after the exception, after the sacrifices of the Portuguese, we now witness the recovery of our self-esteem, economic growth and the confidence of the Portuguese. 2015 will be, after the rescue, after the troika, the first year we can call recovery. Recovery of our sovereignty, recovery of economic growth and recovery of the income available to families. A gradual recovery and where prudence and responsibility will not cease to be present, but a secure way for many Portuguese to have a higher income and a better year. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to focus on the income of families without, however, saying a word first. The decision to initiate the repayments of the IMF reveals a political autonomy of Portugal as a State, which would not be possible with the troika here, still with the Memorandum in progress or with our country under rescue. For future memory there will certainly be the difference, which is not small, between those who caused the problem and those who called the IMF and those — this majority — who received the difficult task of extinguishing the fire, overcoming the rescue and are now in a position to start reimbursements to the IMF. It is not just a matter of saving interest; it is also a matter of anticipating our autonomy and freedom. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the entry of this year of 2015, it is important to highlight five signs of recovery. A time of recovery of Portuguese income, a time of recovery from Portugal. The first sign is the new withholding tables in the source with family quotient, which will allow 1 million and 800 000 taxpayers to benefit from relief in the IRS and therefore more income available. It will already occur in the tables this year, beginning in January or February, according to the sectors, and will contribute to a positive impact in the middle class and, above all, in the most disadvantaged sectors. The second sign consists of what will be the first recovery of revenues from public servants after the rescue and the exceptional times in which we live. In 2015, and in accordance with the commitment made by the Government, there will be a 20 % win against the cuts. In our view, this is a path that must be made gradually, but a path necessary to have a motivated public administration. The third sign of recovery of income is the end of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity (CES) for all pensions up to €4600. Created by a socialist government in 2011, included in the Memorandum of Understanding by the same socialist government, CES is now removed, in what is a frank recovery of income for the overwhelming majority of pensioners. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We say this with the will of those who supported the proposal made by the Government for the removal of the ESC, which provided for an immediate recovery of 45 % to 75 % of the value consumed by the ESC from January 2015. Thus, the 14 % of pensioners who paid ESC, i.e. the middle class of pensioners, will have a considerable recovery of income. The fourth sign that I can not fail to mention is the increase in national minimum wage. Frozen by the previous government, it was possible, in social consultation and with social consultation, to update the value of the national minimum wage, which has already reached more than 500 000 workers and starts gradually restoring the losses to which that freezing had led. The fifth and final sign, which is essential for job creation and for the competitiveness of companies, is the confirmation of the reduction of IRC by two percentage points, from 23 % to 21 %. In two years, we dropped four percentage points in IRC, not for ideological reasons, but for pragmatic, practical reasons, job creation and competitiveness. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are signs that prove we were right. We were sure to want a single Memorandum, a single rescue, with a single loan. We were also sure when we were able, with the Portuguese, to get out without a cautious program. If the path had been left or even left to left, we would still have the troika here, probably a new Memorandum and we would certainly not have made sense of the Portuguese effort. This path made sense to the Portuguese effort and the 2015 signs are proof of this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u5	Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, four Mrs. Members to ask for clarifications, Members Pedro Filipe Soares, Paulo Sá, Rui Paulo Figueiredo and Duarte Marques. In the meantime, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila informed the table which will answer two questions. I therefore give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u6	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, sets out his political statement in the pre-electional political context that we live in. Only thus do we realize this attempt to say that there is a new country in 2015, trying to forget the old evils that are still doing to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u8	To talk about taxes and not even talk about the enormous increase in taxes of Vitor Gaspar, which will still haunt the lives of families in 2015 is, in fact, to pass by the essential, is to talk about the drop of water when it is already around the glass. And it's not the drop of water that makes the difference, it's the cup full of taxes that weighs on the life of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u10	To talk about the recovery of people's income in 2015 and not to say that it was this government that, after creating a huge increase in unemployment in our country and which is not content with this, has reduced the unemployment allowance to those who are in a long-term unemployment situation and who do not have an economy that gives them a chance, attacking even more those who are in a fragile situation, is trying to cover the sun with a sieve. It is not to say that this government was insensitive to the unemployed when it was himself who condemned them to unemployment. Hiding people, pensioners, who have seen their pensions frozen in every year of this government because they have committed the crime of earning a pension of more than 300 € per month is in fact not talking about people's difficulties. But speaking also to farmers, for example, and telling them that they are much better, when they see themselves with bureaucracy, having to pay taxes, and many of them are furnished with bringing small agricultural products to the weekly fair is in fact not talking to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u11	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u12	To speak for a youth, the most qualified of all, who has been forced to emigrate from the policies of this government, and not have one word for it, saying that 2015 is the sun that will shine every day, when, in practice, the black clouds that force her to emigrate are not yet dissipated is, in fact, wanting to have an election campaign, but have no reason to do it. I shall finish, Madam President, with the following question: where did you go in this three-year term? We know: in the government, doing these evils to people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u13	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u14	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, came here today to talk about recovery. It started by talking about the recovery of sovereignty, and we remember that the CDS even put a decreasing counting watch to signal the end of the troika. But although the troika programme has formally reached the end of May 2014, the truth is that the policies of the troika have all continued to be implemented by this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u16	If you have any doubts, please consult the State Budget, which has entered into force for days and which has been approved by the PSD/CDS majority, which says in Article 239. that « all measures imposed under the troika programme shall remain in force ». I would also like to remind you that the CDS, together with the PSD and PS, have assumed the budgetary treaty which requires the continuation of the policy of the troika for tens of years. The honourable Member also spoke of an alleged recovery of income from civil servants and pensioners. Now, I must remind you of the measures your party, along with the PSD, entered in the 2015 State Budget for civil servants and pensioners. I must remind you that the Government keeps the salaries of the Public Administration frozen up to € 1500 and that it applies, from this value, new cuts that can go up to 8%, pushing thousands of employees of the Public Administration to the so-called "requalification", which is nothing more than an advance of dismissal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u18	It applies to these workers a cut of at least 60 % of their wages and insists on cutting pay supplements, meal subsidies, cost aids and remuneration for extra work and night work. Where's the recovery you've been talking about? Oh, my God! The CDS said it was the taxpayer's party. What did the CDS include in the State budget for pensioners and taxpayers in general? It insists on new cuts in higher-value pensions, renews the freezing of the generality of pensions, provides for several measures that give expression to the increasing age of reform due to the so-called « sustainability factor », insists on the cutting of pension supplements for pensioners of public enterprises, freezes the value of social benefits due to the non-updating of the IAS ( indexing of social support ). These are the measures that the CDS entered in the State budget. Mr President, you have also mentioned the recovery of families in terms of taxes. With regard to the withholding tables at source, Mr. Deputy, in 2015 all families will pay more IRS than they paid in 2012. In 2013 the government imposed a brutal increase in taxes, which at the time promised the Portuguese to be temporary, which would last only as long as the troika program lasted, but formally finished the troika program last May, the CDS, the PSD and the Government continue to maintain this brutal increase in taxes. They say there is relief at IRS headquarters, but in reality, all families, all Portuguese will pay through green taxation, so as not to talk about the increase in excise duties. That is, the tax burden on families, on workers, on the Portuguese people is compounded in 2015 — there is also no recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u19	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u20	I'm done now, Madam President. Mr. Deputies finished talking about the decline in the IRC tax rate. Mr Deputy, the PSD/CDS government has actually dropped the IRC rate from 25 % to 23 % and this year again to 21 %. The result was that the tax revenue, within IRC, has already fallen by EUR 90 million this year until last November.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u21	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission. The Table was distracted and did not examine the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u22	I conclude, Madam President. As the government reduces corporate income tax, taxes on families and workers are increased. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u23	To reply, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u24	Madam President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr Paulo Sá. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares accused me of making a political statement in a pre-election political context logic. Mr, the political declaration was made here in Lisbon, not in Greece, not anywhere else.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u25	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u26	I would also like to tell you that this is where our political statements are made, addressed to the Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u27	I wanted to tell you that no one forgets the way we had to make, a very difficult path, with much effort from the Portuguese. On the contrary, if we do not remember that path that we had to do, we will soon fall again into the same mistakes of the past, and that cannot happen. Mr President, in fact, the essential idea of the Left Block is not to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u28	You guys didn't pay wages or pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u29	I thought the honourable Member would have the opportunity to speak to us on such an "elephant hidden from outside" which he referred here in times when he said a second rescue was inevitable. However, it was not only inevitable, as it was possible to avoid this second rescue, Mr President. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u30	He also spoke in unemployment, forgetting a declining trend of 21 months of the unemployment rate, being the unemployment rate close to that which existed in 2011. You are talking about pensions, forgetting that it was this government that took away minimum, social and rural pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u31	200 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u32	Are you talking about agriculture? Are you sure that you want to oppose agriculture, with 92 % implementation within PRODER? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Paulo Sá, in fact, we in the CDS have no Lego parts, we have only the reality of the country and the receipts of the Portuguese due. [[PCP protests.]] in these receipts, the Portuguese begin to see the recovery of their available income. Three years ago, we asked for money to survive; now what happens is that we can pay debts in advance. And about that, as always, the PCP doesn't say anything, and it even seems to get angry. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] Mr President, let me just tell you one more thing about something you have referred to and that has to do with IRC. The honourable Member points out that the government has lowered the IRC... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u33	Mrs. Members, it is not possible to hear Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Paulo Sá pointed out, and it is correct, that we have twice lowered the IRC, first from 25% to 23% and then from 23% to 21%. As I said in my political statement, this is not an ideological measure; it is, yes, pragmatism and what is the practical reality of the life of companies and the Portuguese economy. Do you know the difference, Your Honor? It is that the CFP continues to dislike companies and forgets that it is the companies that create jobs. We know it's not like that! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u35	To request clarification, Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u36	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, with the parliamentary and argumentative quality that we all recognize, Mr. President made a diagnosis only and only of what he saw is positive in the country, but then brings another set of statements and, regardless of what the opposition parties say, he adds the answers, not saying anything that has to do with what he was asked. I therefore call on you to reply directly to the questions I am going to ask you. Mr. Deputies gave a vision that everything is fine. There are aspects that we also find positive and we want to discuss the matter seriously, because any improvement, although slight, in Portuguese income is positive. But in order to discuss seriously, you must also say that many of these improvements have resulted from decisions of the Constitutional Court that forced the government to take them and that so diabolized were by the parties of the majority. To discuss this seriously, it is also important to note that the huge tax burden that all Portuguese suffer greatly minimizes this recovery of Portuguese income. But then Mr Deputy, in this colourful view of the balance sheet that he has made these three years, ignores everything that has gone wrong. He does not speak of the creative destruction that existed in the economy in several sectors, such as restoration, civil construction and small trade and ignored a brutal reduction in credit to the economy that occurred. For example, the former Minister of Economics, in his book, refers — we do not know whether it is exactly so or not, but all opposition parties have been making the diagnosis — which has repeatedly alerted the government to these problems, that is, to the destruction of the economy, to the brutal reduction of credit to the economy, and that the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister have been ignoring this matter. But also the delay and absence of growth incentive policies, the delay in the relief of tax burden, the insufficient reduction of expenditure, all diagnoses shared by government members, were ignored in their intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u37	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u38	I conclude, Madam President. You have also ignored everything that is present and future. He ignored that, yes, they are paying debt, but they are managing it because they are going to pay it with another debt; he ignored the numbers of unemployment, of economic growth, of export, in which there are some positive signs, but which are far from what we need; and he also ignored — and with this very end, Mr President — the destruction of the relevant presence of the State and the economy at the level of TAP and PT.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u39	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u40	So, Mr President, do you not think that, in order to discuss these matters seriously, we also have to address everything that went wrong and everything that is still insufficient, and not just because of this vision that is all right in the country? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u41	I'm asking the ladies. Members who respect registrar times or, at least, approaching the limits of registrar times. Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u42	Madam President, I was listening to the Socialist Party's last question and was with some joy that I heard the Socialist Party Member quote recommendations from the PSD Government's ex-ministers books. It was also good to cite recommendations and diagnoses of leaders of the Socialist Party. Of prognosis and diagnosis, the Socialist Party has already shown us what it comes to. We are still waiting for this is the first proposal by the Socialist Party for the reform of the country. In fact, not the first, but the second, because the first Dr. Correia de Campos already came to dismount in the public newspaper. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what seems important to reflect here today is whether the country is better than it was three years ago, whether the signs that have been given by the economy have resulted in the lives of the Portuguese or not, whether Portugal, after all, has always had a second rescue or whether Portugal has always had a cautious program, or whether Portugal, after all, even had a recessive spiral. After all, we have heard here the Socialist Party say that there are already some signs of economic recovery, but that there is still a lack of investment policies to recover the economy. We don't understand whose responsibility it is. We believe in the PSD that responsibility is, above all, for companies, but also for the credibility that the Portuguese and the country once again have, which enables them to trust and return trust to entrepreneurs. Mr. Bloc de Left would like to recall the following: the great wickedness that has been done in the country has been taken to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u43	You voted for the State budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u44	And to the Portuguese Communist Party what I would like to say, after this intervention, is that the country is not a game of Lego, not a game of Playmobile. The country does not deal with a joke, despite its allegory having had some grace. But what is true is that today we must see whether the country has stopped having ‘foots of clay’ and today has foundations that are not a joke, are responsible, sustainable foundations for the future of the country and for the next generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u45	This is a great depth of analysis!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u46	It is interesting to know if we deliver a country better than we received three years ago and if it has conditions to grow. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, the question I would like to ask you is quite simple. For three years, we realized that the country had more conditions, was more prepared, was more sustainable. I think it is time to also check whether or not Portuguese start to feel in their pockets, in the economy, in companies the result of these policies, the result of this rigor and the result of this sustainable policy that wants to create a country with a future and not a country supported in debt, PPP or megalomanian works. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u47	To reply, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u48	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo and Mr Duarte Filipe Marques asked the questions. Starting with some of the considerations and questions, I waited for the questions, but they were more rhetorical than concrete. Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo, I would like to begin by saying that I note your tone, even in contrast with the tone that we are sometimes attending at the Socialist Party's bench, because it is a tone that begins by saying that, in fact, there are positive matters and that there have been advances — I assume that positive matters have advanced. It is an unusual tone at the Socialist Party's bench and I think that for a credible opposition it is not wrong for you. In any case, I wanted to tell you that — and I also answer a direct question from Mr Duarte Marques about whether we are better now — there is no doubt that we are much better now than we were in 2011 when we did not even have possible funding to pay wages. Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo. The honourable Member is speaking in terms of credit reduction. Mr. Deputies, Portugal had no money to pay its debts. It is clear, therefore, that there has to be a reduction in credit because of the circumstances that you have forced us to face. Is the honourable Member talking about the destruction of the economy? Oh, my God! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. I must say, very calmly, that we have been left with debts of more than EUR 3000 million in the area of health! The honourable Member has made criticisms from the point of view of taxation. But the Socialist Party broke the agreement that it had recently made at IRC headquarters and voted against the family quotient, which, as we know, reduces the IRS of families! For a moment, I still thought that the honourable Member would come here with great skill and art, explaining the reason for the Socialist Party's vote, but we will continue to wait for this explanation and especially the Portuguese will also wait for that answer. The honourable Member is also speaking to us in tourism. Mr Member, this was the best year ever in the area of tourism! The honourable Member is telling us about problems in exports. But, Mr, exports continue to grow with very satisfactory rates for the country's economy! Sir, is it a pink country? No, we do not want a pink country, Mr. No, we don't. We don't want to go back to the pink country. We know that it is a country that still faces difficulties, but we also know that we are recovering and that, especially with the effort of all Portuguese, we will be able to overcome this crisis. Mr Duarte Marques, I would like to thank you for all the questions you have asked and to tell you that we are better, that the confidence of the Portuguese is growing and that, above all, if we know how to keep going, if we can explain to people the way we have made, there is hope in the future, and that is really important. So I wanted to say that we are certainly better with the effort of all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u49	To give the next political statement, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Government health policy has extremely serious and harmful consequences for users of the National Health Service, as evidenced by the situation of rupture and chaos in which emergency services are located. The failure of emergency services is the result of the government's health policy and options, a policy of attack and de-investment in the National Health Service ( SNS ). The failure of emergency services is the result of the policy of reducing professionals and material conditions to respond to the needs of populations, the closure of proximity services, the degradation of emergency services in hospitals. The failure of emergency services is the result of the policy of reducing the number of beds in hospitals. Only in these four years have more than 900 beds been reduced in the SNS. This was a mistake and the reality is demonstrating, every day, that the beds closed by this government are needed, so much so that some are now being reopened. The failure of emergency services is the result of the policy of social and professional devaluation of health workers, of the attack on the labour rights of health professionals, who prefer to emigrate or reform themselves in advance, with cuts in reforms, rather than continue to be abused by the government. When we accuse the government of developing a policy of attack and de-investment in the National Health Service, this is all we're talking about, and the break in the emergency services there is confirming that we're right when we accuse the government of condemning the Portuguese to death in advance. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation of rupture that affects, from north to south of the country, the emergency services of hospitals is not punctual, it is not from now on. The failure of emergency services has been installed for many months. For many months, patients have been waiting for many hours to be cared for in emergency services. The situation of failure in emergency services is not conjuncural, contrary to what the Government says. It is a structural situation, and the government knows very well! Since the last debate with the Minister of Health 15 days ago, the problems have not been solved, on the contrary, there has been a worsening of the situation and it has become more evident the damage the government is causing to the patients. The last few days have been fertile in announcements by the Government of measures to resolve the chaos of emergencies. Measures which, contrary to what the Government says, do not definitely solve the problem, can only mitigate it. Let us see, then, some of these measures. The extent to which hospitals and hospitals are authorized to hire professionals does not solve the problem, as hospitals can only contract as long as they do not exceed the amounts planned for 2014. The measure providing for the extension of the hours of operation of health centres will only apply until the end of February. And what happens next? As long as it allows the reopening of beds in hospitals it is very short of the needs, since the number of beds closed in the past is much higher than those that are now open. And -- don't worry! — this measure, which aims to divert the patients from public hospitals to private hospitals, clearly demonstrates that the Government is guided by reasons not of the public interest and the safeguarding of the National Health Service; on the contrary, the action of the Government continues to be guided to favour the large economic groups of the health sector to the detriment of users. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the face of the disaster that is created in health, PSD and CDS try to escape their responsibilities and want to prevent the Minister of Health from being held accountable to the Assembly of the Republic. Why don't they want PSD and CDS discuss the problem? What are the members of the PSD and the CDS afraid? Fear the confrontation with reality, fear the confrontation with the result of the government's political options in the National Health Service and emergency services! The CFP requires that these responsibilities be assumed and therefore we use the legislative right to demand the presence of the Minister of Health in the Assembly of the Republic, preventing CDS and PSD from being able to steal from the debate. And we will do more: the PCP does not steal from the debate and wants to continue to hear the difficulties experienced by users and health professionals alive. Therefore, we will hold a public hearing on health issues and the defense of the National Health Service in the Assembly of the Republic on 30th. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to put an end to the destruction of the National Health Service carried out by the Government! We must stop this policy and this government! It is necessary to put an end to the policy that every day prevents thousands of Portuguese people from accessing health care and trying to save at the expense of Portuguese life. In the face of structural and non-conjuncural problems, there is a need to change policies. It is necessary to hire professionals and value them socially and professionally, integrating them into careers and promoting labour stability. It is necessary to pay off the hiring of temporary workers. It is necessary to strengthen primary health care through the reopening of health centres and extensions that were closed by this and previous governments. It is necessary to invest in the National Health Service by providing material and financial resources that enable the provision of quality health care. These are the solutions that can solve the problems of emergency services and the National Health Service. It is for them that the PCP will continue to hit. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u51	In order to clarify Mrs Carla Cruz, the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have applied for clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro, from PSD, Helena Pinto, from the Block of Left, José Luís Ferreira, from The Greens, Teresa Caeiro, from the CDS-PP and Luísa Salgueiro, from the PS. In the meantime, Mrs Carla Cruz informed the Bureau that she wanted to answer the questions individually, so Mr Cristóvão Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u52	Madam President, Mrs Deputy, said in the last political statement I made in this House that those who have no memory do not actually honour their history. Therefore, I begin this intervention by reaffirming precisely what he said from the top of the rostrum: the Portuguese have memory and, therefore, are deeply familiar with their history, and honor it. Mrs. Deputy, in 2011 our country was a fully-governed, debt-burdened train with a lack of credibility. in the National Health System, this government and this majority found a dark situation of 3000 million debts only to suppliers, the same ones that were under constant threat of failure in supply to the SNS. This government, with its action, paid more than EUR 2000 million in debts to suppliers, recapitalized the hospitals of the National Health System and strengthened the means and techniques. Mrs Deputy, I ask you, to begin with: do you agree or disagree with the financial consolidation that this government has made to the National Health System? Do you agree or disagree with the fact that the medicine policy, which this government has carried out, has been translated into the lowest price as long as the Portuguese pay for the medicines? Oh, my God! You think this is a health disinvestment? Oh, my God! Do you think that this is a favour to the large economic groups, Madam Member? Oh, my God! I would also like to tell you that today the National Health System has more health centers than it had; we have opened dozens of family health units; today we have more than 2200 doctors in the National Health Service than those that existed in 2011; and, contrary to what Mrs. Deputy said, today there are more than 1000 beds, in a total of about 28 500, in hospitals and in the National Health Service. So, Mrs Deputy, does she agree or disagree with the strengthening that this Government has carried out within the framework of human resources in the National Health System?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u53	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u54	With regard to emergencies, if there has been a de-investment by this majority in the emergencies of the National Health Service, how does it justify that the Government has since November strengthened the emergency teams in Portuguese hospitals? How does it justify that, in most of the months of the year, these situations do not occur? Does the honourable Member recognise, or does she not, that much of these problems, the degree of complexity of which increases the waiting lists, are timely? Does the honourable Member have the courage and the 'can' to say here that a truly urgent patient will not be treated in the National Health Service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u55	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u56	To conclude, I will only say the following: Mrs Deputy, indeed, there is a great difference between us, ideologically, of thought and functioning, and it would be wrong to democracy if it were not so. But there's a difference. It is that this majority and this bench don't make chicana with Portuguese health and don't try to make this a political fact. Still the problems and solve them seriously. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as five Members have signed up to request clarification and Mrs Carla Cruz will answer one by one, I ask you to respect the times, so that we can manage them better. You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u58	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, the reality of every day and the reality of all the Portuguese going to the National Health Service clearly and clearly deny all that you have said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u59	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u60	The reality of every day shows that many Portuguese people today are unable to access the National Health Service due to the measures of this government. Today, the reality proves that there are proximity services that have been closed by the PSD and the CDS-PP. Mr President, the reality of every day shows that there are patients who wait for hours too long, who go beyond all the time provided for in that Manchester scale and that this situation is not punctual, contrary to what I said. This is a structural situation, it is a situation that has been happening for many months. The government knew about this situation and did nothing to fight it. It is by political and ideological choice of this government that the situation in emergencies and hospitals is this way. Between 2009 and 2014, they left the National Health Service, according to the data from the balance sheet of the Ministry of Health, more than 6,000 workers. Mr. Deputies, they are not only missing doctors in the National Health Service. Doctors are missing—and many! — in primary health care, in hospital care, but also lack nurses, technical assistants, operational assistants, because these professionals are also important for the operation of emergencies. Mr. Deputy, the Portuguese Communist Party does not make chicana of Portuguese health. The PSD government has in fact failed to respect the rights of users, and the honourable Member has made it a chican of their difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u61	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u62	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u63	The honourable Member has not responded to any of the difficulties, nor has the Government responded to the needs and rights of users. Given that this situation is the responsibility of the Government, the CFP has already requested it to assume its responsibilities here in relation to the emergency situation and the National Health Service. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u64	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u65	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, the topic that has brought the debate today is very important and central to the political agenda and to the interests of Portuguese and Portuguese. There are a generation of people who have never thought about watching the situation we have seen in health services. This is for one reason, Mr Simão Ribeiro: because we have memory. It is precisely because we remember that we never thought that, four decades after 25 April and the construction of the National Health Service, if you were to witness the sad situation of Portuguese hospitals and, in particular, of emergencies. We have memory, sir! We have memory and we don't want to go back! For this reason, we are afraid of being beaten by the defense of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u67	But it is also at stake another very important thing: health gains, for Portuguese and Portuguese, built over decades by dedicated professionals. These gains are also being called into question. It is not just a matter of being attended or not being cared for in emergencies, with the importance that this has; it is something that has been built, which is called the National Health Service and which is at stake because of the policies that have been implemented by the PSD Government and the CDS and of which you have come here to echo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u68	With great pride!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u69	The constant cuts in funding, the constant cuts in hiring professionals, the obsession of Minister Paulo Macedo with accounts and this debt that, after all, cannot even pay, made the hospitals define and today hospitals and health centers are strangled.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u70	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u71	I shall conclude, Madam President. Those who thought that the policies followed by the government were neutral for the functioning of the SNS, were dubiously deceived. Today, we are living with the chaos that makes us feel in emergencies and only you don't see that. Only the gentlemen! They're the only ones! PSD and CDS have a sale in their eyes regarding hospital emergencies, and that's a shame. Mrs Carla Cruz, accompanying her in the essence of her speech, I leave the following question to her: only with the end of this policy, cutting off with this lack of funding and betting on the hiring of doctors, nurses and assistants is it possible to begin to reverse the logic of the destruction of the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u72	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u73	Madam President, Mrs Helena Pinto, I would like to thank you for your question. In fact, only a financing policy, as I said in the political declaration, and a policy that allows the hiring of professionals, the social and professional valorization of health workers, can lead to a rupture and improvement in the situation of the National Health Service and the emergencies. Madam Member, I would also like to say that the rupture that the emergency services have reached is not today, it is not now, which is the result of the political options that this government and the previous governments have taken. The reduction in the number of beds in hospitals was an extremely serious measure for the National Health Service and today it is seen how this measure was so badly done. But the intention was clear: as the number of beds in the public service was reduced — there were over 900 — many more beds in the private sector. And this appearance of beds in private is clearly due to what has been the political option of the current government : to cut into the public to deliver to the private. This clear measure now comes to say that the emergency services of the National Health Service can send users to private hospitals clearly serve these attempts of the majority, which are to attack, deinvest, destroy the National Health Service and favor the private health sector. Madam Member, allow me also to say that there is a fundamental breach of right-wing policy. It is necessary to break with all the constraints that are preventing the country from progressing, developing and that the National Health Service can fulfill what is in the Constitution, that is, all users are entitled to general and universal health. That is what this government's policy is preventing the Portuguese from having. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u74	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u75	Madam President, Mrs Carla Cruz, I would first like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss this subject, because indeed the chaos that is set up in hospital emergencies is a matter that should concern us all. however, there are some, by the way, who prefer to talk about the facts of the government. Mr Simão Ribeiro, I was still expecting you to quote Mr. Minister of Health when he said that he was closing services to improve Portuguese access to health care. Then, when we talk about problems, the conversation is the custom, which is deeply regrettable. We are talking about problems and some think that this is political chicana. The chaos that is installed in hospital emergencies ends up being the result of this government’s policies — blind cuts in such sensitive areas as health, closure of services, limitations to hospitals so that they can hire health professionals in good time and the use or option for temporary work. Now, the results of these policies are in sight of everyone: chaos in emergencies, as I mentioned earlier; surgery postponed due to lack of doctors and lack of beds; overcrowded nurses; patients waiting hours to be cared for; congestion in services; patients piled up in emergencies due to lack of beds to be hospitalized; waiting times absolutely unacceptable; ambulances of firefighters held in emergencies due to lack of beds; and patients who die while waiting to be cared for. Mrs Carla Cruz, this scenario, which is a real drama—it only does not embarrass the government because it has long lost its shame—it is certainly not disconnected from the closure of services carried out by the government over time and throughout the country. As such, I ask you if you do not think that the health services, especially the primary health services that the Government has closed, could or might not have contributed to avoiding at least the dimension of the drama that is being experienced in hospital emergencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u77	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u78	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I thank you for the question you have raised and, above all, for addressing an issue that is essential: the importance of proximity health care and primary health care for the National Health Service. Today, we know that 70% of the care provided in hospitals could be provided in primary health care, but they are not provided at this level because primary health care has been closed. This government, in fact continuing a previous measure, continued to close proximity services such as health centres, extensions, SAP (permanent care services). Therefore, Mr President, contrary to what has been the concern and propaganda of this government about the fact that it is strengthening primary health care, the reality of every day clearly shows that this government has done the opposite. This government has disinvested at the level of primary health care. Mr President, let me reiterate and comment on one of the conjunctural measures that the Government has now used to combat this chaos of urgency, which was the extension of the hours of operation of health centres at night and weekends. In this regard, it seems that the Minister of Health, when confronted by us 15 days ago with regard to information from the North ARS, said that « no, it is a lie, that is not true». But what happened was that we had information on 9 January — the Minister was here on 8 January — that the family health unit of Acute in Vila Nova de Gaia had instructions to close. This health unit, which had a prolonged schedule, had indications to close on February 1. As I said, this information came to the health unit on January 9, i.e. one day after the Minister said here that no extended-time health unit would close. There is more: we have the information that, from 1 February, the family health units of Anta, in Espinho, Egas Moniz and Terras de Santa Maria, both of Santa Maria da Feira, will become closed to weekends.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u79	You want to conclude, Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u80	I shall conclude, Madam President. Mr President, it is with these measures that the Government says it wants to combat chaos in emergencies. It only fights chaos in emergencies with another policy, with another government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u81	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u82	... a government that does not comply with these economic and attack measures to the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u83	Although it is a right of Members to answer individually, the fact that they do so also provides them with a time that allows me to ask them to better respect the time limits. To ask questions, you have the floor to Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u84	Madam President, Mrs Carla Cruz, for the thousandth time I say that the CFP has no more appreciation for the National Health Service than the CSD or the parties that support the government. You don't, of course! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to thank the PCP once and for all for making an effort not to capture something that does not belong to it. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] We also want the proper investigations to be done and, as you know, the investigations are under way to know exactly what happened in the emergencies. We also want the necessary corrections and improvements to be made in these peak periods of urgency. We also want to have the debate and not steal from it. Now, when the honourable Member says that the CFP does not steal from the debate, I say that the CFP does not steal from it is riding the wave of human dramas for party politics. [[PCP protests.]] In fact, the honourable Member is in each of the speeches she makes when she says that political change is needed, that there is a need to change government, that it is necessary to attack the large economic groups. Madam Member — and I am sorry for the expression that is already a little used — you, in fact, have a single tape that repeats ad nauseam,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u85	That's the truth! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u86	... to the limit, always using the same terms, always the same clichés. You always talk in the big economic groups about everything and nothing. Mrs. Members, 35 years ago, since the creation of the National Health Service, you have been witnessing their dismantling and ending, but, you know, the SNS has continued and increasingly with better indicators. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u87	He's in sight! It's just looking at the emergencies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u88	Mrs. Member, I am very pleased to bring you here the ever better indicators of the National Health Service, compiled by the Directorate-General of Health, about the commemorations of its 35 years. I'm so happy to hand it over to you. The CFP is not up-to-date and does not have a confrontation with reality or the facts. It's like that mother who's watching her son go and says, "Look, everybody's leaving the opposite, only my son is walking in the right direction."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u89	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u90	You speak about access and forget the extraordinary extension of people who are exempt from the payment of moderate fees, the hiring of more than 1200 doctors —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u91	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u92	...and you have to discount those who have retired— plus 1000 nurses,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u93	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u94	... plus 106 family health units, plus 76 community units, plus 68 family health units moved from model A to model B.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u95	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u96	I shall conclude, Madam President. The gentlemen. Members have a feature: they launch the alarm, they don't make any distinction between alert and alarm...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u97	That means it's all great! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u98	... and have no concern at generating distrust and exploring the frailties of the sick population. You should have some decoration in this respect and it is important that our people continue to trust the National Health Service. The honourable Member makes statements that have no support for reality. It says: « You close health centres». Tell me a health center that's been shut down and why... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ...and, Mrs. Member, acute beds have been closed to open up 2000 continuous care beds. It is good that you do not miss the truth when you make these statements. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u99	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u100	Madam President, Mrs Deputy of the CDS, Teresa Caeiro, proof of your appreciation for the National Health Service is in sight, reality shows it every day. [[PCP applause.]] The chaos in the emergencies, the dramatic situation with which the Portuguese face when they need to go to the emergencies is proof of your appreciation for the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u101	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u102	But there is more, Mrs. Member: your appreciation for the National Health Service is on the scales that a temporary work firm does in recruiting doctors to ensure hospital emergencies. The proof of your appreciation for the professionals of the National Health Service is in the social and professional devaluation with which you provide health workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u104	See, Mrs. Member : to the Figueira da Foz hospital, scales of January, 25, Sunday, from 20 hours to 8 o'clock in the morning. Do you know what it's worth by hour? Mrs Deputy, 18 euros. Here is what the CDS-PP appreciates about the National Health Service and the professionals who "give the liter" every day, that they give their best every day, so that the emergency situation is not even more chaotic!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u105	What's the health center that's shut down?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u106	And, Mrs. Member, it is not the CFP that says so, it is the President himself of the Association of Hospital Administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u107	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u108	Health professionals are exhausted, they are at the end, and it is not because of the PCP but because of the policy of this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u109	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u110	...by what the CDS and PSD have done to the workers, which leads to the urgency in the situation in which they are. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u111	What were the health centers that closed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u112	You are still registered to ask questions to Mrs Luísa Salgueiro. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to congratulate the PCP bench for, once again, bringing to the discussion the situation of the emergencies and the National Health Service, in general, the situation that is serious, that exists and that is not an invention of the opposition. By listening to the PSD and CDS benches, particularly those of the CDS, it seems that suddenly either the social communication or the opposition have joined to finally unmasking the false prestige that Minister Paulo Macedo has achieved over these years. The fact is that in the early years of governance, Minister Paulo Macedo, who was very concerned about his image, managed to disguise the effects of the cuts that he has been producing, but at the moment the Government's primary health care options have become inexplicable. Mrs Deputy, I will clarify it by telling you that during the PS Government from 2006 to 2011 320 family health units have been opened and that since the beginning of the current government's mandate to date 90 have been opened. This makes all the difference, because people have nowhere to go when they are sick other than in the hospital, they go immediately to the emergency. On the other hand, when they no longer need to be in an emergency, they stay there because there's no rear end, there's no continuing health care...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u115	...and the convalescence beds are being closed. in the North region, the ARS decided to close the convalescence beds. Well, this is not indifferent. And it is not worth the Minister now to talk about these measures which become a little ridiculous, since they are advances and retreats. In fact, we saw the following situation yesterday: the coalition was divided into the Commission because it voted on the PSD in one sense and the CDS-PP in another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u116	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u117	... and, in the Government, Mr. Secretary of State Loyal of the Costa gave statements at the end of the afternoon and Mr. Minister, after dinner, corrected what Mr. Secretary of State Loyal of the Costa said.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u118	She's screwed up behind bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u119	It is the total disorientation that means a lack of planning and strategy that has always existed in the National Health Service and the objective was realized well this week when it was said: "If there is no response in the public, we resort to private people." Indeed, this has always been the intention of this government. We therefore want to ask the Communist Party whether or not the answer to situations like this is the strengthening of primary health care, especially the model of the family health units and the extension of the integrated continuous care network, measures that had been taken previously and which this Government boycotted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u120	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u121	Madam President, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro of the Socialist Party, I begin by thanking you for the question you have raised. Mrs Deputy, in fact, the chaotic situation of emergency services is not at present the result of flu outbreaks or heat peaks. It is because of the policies — policies, these, which we have already said here today, are not from other governments and are pursued by this government — to reduce the number of professionals, social and professional devaluation of health professionals, to reduce and cut the rights of these professionals, which have led many professionals who today need the National Health Service to abandon it early.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u123	What is important is a break with this policy, a break with the policy that has led to the closure of proximity services. I take this opportunity to tell Mrs Teresa Caeiro that a recently closed health center was the Louro Health Extension, in Vila Nova de Famalicão. It ended in December, at the peak of the flu and the cold, at that time when the government came here to say: "We will invest in health care". Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro, what we are going to do and why we are going to debate is for the social and professional valorization of health workers, not only. We will continue to debate ourselves so that those health centres and extensions which have been closed either by this government or by the previous one will be reopened. We will continue to debate ourselves for the end of the provision of health care, through temporary work enterprises,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u124	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u125	...but we have no doubt, Mrs. Member, that the Socialist Party will accompany us in these measures. It is because many of the measures presented by the PS do not follow us, the PS does not value them and does not vote for them. Often, it accompanies the PSD and CDS-PP more than exactly what is the defense of the National Health Service and the proposals presented by the Communist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u126	The CFP's political declaration is concluded here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u127	Madam President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u128	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u129	Madam President, I just want to ask for a document from the Central Health System Administration to be distributed, which I will bring to the Bureau for better assistance from the work and which is a demonstration of the invertedness that has been said here that the number of beds in the national health system decreases. in this document, it is completely shaped its increase. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u130	It will be distributed, Mr. Deputies. We will continue with the political statements this afternoon. For a political statement, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A often repeated lie is not true. This is the phrase that the Minister for Social Security, Pedro Mota Soares, has repeated over the past few months. This is how he replied when he was confronted with his decision to fire hundreds of workers on social security through the so-called'requalification process'. Since August, when it became known the decision to send nearly 700 workers to requalification, the Minister has always repeated the same box spent: "We will ensure that absolutely no one will be fired in social security. That is the essential point," said the Minister in November last year, « Absolutely no one will be fired », « the requalification mechanism is not a dismissal ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u133	On 20 November, the Secretary of State for Public Administration came to Parliament saying the same thing: that the requalification process, and I quote, « does not involve dismissal» and « unemployment equality is abusive». On 26 November, Augustine Branquinho, Secretary of State for Social Security, also came to Parliament and once again said in obedience to the Minister : « absolutely no one will be dismissed». Even last week, Pedro Mota Soares assured the Members that it was a "reorganization of services" rather than dismissal. But the Minister is right: a often repeated lie is not true. When he decided to send 700 social security workers to the requalification regime, Minister Mota Soares, in fact, like the whole government, knew exactly what he was doing. The Minister is not so incompetent that he does not know the law, and the law is clear. The requalification workers go through a first phase in which they receive 60 % of the salary and their link is maintained; in the second phase of requalification, the workers receive 40 % of the salary. But they only access to this second stage workers with appointment ties or who have administratively transferred to the employment contract scheme in public functions. The other workers, even those who entered the state before 2009 and who have always had a contract, are fired at the end of one year, I repeat, are fired at the end of one year. And if this is not clear enough for the Minister of Social Security, perhaps we can simplify things like this: "The rules are absolutely clear. We know what people in whom the bond does not allow dismissal and we know that there are others who, because of the type of contract, can be fired" — these are not my words, they are the Minister of Finance. It will be the Minister of Finance who is repeating lies or we can finally conclude that it is true what we have always said:... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... the requalification process is in fact a collective dismissal of gross dimensions and what Minister Mota Soares repeated time and time again without account did not pass a « mistification», in an expression also used yesterday by the Minister of Finance? Oh, my God! What the Minister of Finance admitted was that the Minister for Social Security, Luís Pedro Mota Soares, tried to deceive Members, Parliament, social security workers and the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u134	And you did it, because you don't want to face it, because you know that in many cases the situation of requalification is worse than the unemployment regime, because you know that you're going down the wall and blackmailing hundreds of people to ask for the termination of your contract, since you know that you're going to send many of them and many of them to the street. The problem is that, in Mr Minister's political outrage, hundreds of people who have been working on social security for decades now are living in the lives of those who are now "unnetworked" from time to time, exposed to unemployment and poverty. And in the life that these people have given to their work, every day, there is solidarity, public and universal social security that this government wants to destroy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u136	These workers who now leave are children's educators, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, drivers, administrativeists, multidisciplinary teams that accompany children and families at risk, who work with children and young people's protection committees (CPCJ) and the courts, who accompany cases of poverty and social exclusion. They are workers with functions that do not leave places vague. Therefore, the services are already replacing them, because these workers have jobs, have processes, have value and have qualifications for the places they occupy, even if they are not framed in the expected careers. Now that the Minister of Finance has unearthed the tip of the veil, it is time to put an end to all the mists that have been used to try to justify this process. The arguments put forward by the Government and the Minister for Social Security are false and do not take them. The Ombudsman even said that the study which is allegedly based on this decision « is omitted in respect of the criteria and procedures adopted to determine the specific number of jobs required » and that « such study does not constitute sufficient grounds for the placement of retraining workers ». Among the assurances given by Minister Mota Soares that "no one will be fired at all" and the reality is 12,000 workers. It is the number of 12 000 public administration workers that this government has already said it will put on requalification during 2015 even after it has already reduced more than double the number of public officials agreed with the troika. We are therefore witnessing the beginning of the insurrection than will be the greatest collective dismissal in the history of the Public Administration. And all by prejudice against what is public, against what is of all, against what is of our people. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The struggle of social security workers is the struggle of those who do not resign, a struggle for the rights of those who work, but also a struggle for quality public services. That's the fight of all of us! Requalification, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not be, it cannot be, we will not admit that it is the end of the line. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u137	To ask questions, the honourable Members signed up. Mr Artur Rêgo, Jorge Machado, Duarte Pacheco and Mr Mário Ruivo and Mrs Mariana Aiveca informed the Bureau that she will respond jointly to each of the two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Artur Rêgo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u138	Madam President, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, although she has brought this issue here, because it makes it possible to clarify and demystify what has been the concern around this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u139	But are you going to lie to the Minister or the Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u140	And I leave you with a number of questions, Mrs. Deputies. Is it not true that requalification results from a law created by the Socialist Party? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u141	And? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u142	Is it not true, Madam Member, that by the time of the Socialist Party more than 25% of the human resources of the Institute for Social Security ( ISS ) have been transferred and transferred to mobility? Oh, my God! Yes, and this was presented to you at the last hearing of the Minister. Is it true or not, Mrs Deputy, that before 2009 and since 2006 the mobility law that existed meant that anyone who was sent for mobility was fired at the end of a year, but the law in force since 2009 prevents this situation, that is, there are no dismissals in mobility, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u143	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u144	People go to mobility to be re-qualified and re-allocated, within the Public Administration, to other services where their skills are adjusted and necessary. Mrs Deputies, is it true or not, and speaking of what was the Minister's hearing and what was said here, in fact, Mrs Deputies focused on this, that the modernisation of services implies that certain positions and functions become obsolete? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u145	What functions? The educators? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u146	Obsolete is CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u147	Is it true or not, Mrs Deputy, that the transfer of ISS equipment to the IPSS began in 1995 with the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! Is it true that there were people from the Social Security Institute who were transferred with these equipment and others who at the time were not because they did not want to continue in the ISS without being performing functions in their specific areas of qualification? Oh, my God! [[Meanwhile, Vice President Miranda Calha took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u148	Mr. Deputies, you've finished your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u149	I shall conclude, Mr President. Is it true or not, Mrs Deputies, that in the public interventions you did, Mr Minister, did not say more or less than this: would people go to requalification, for mobility, to be reintegrated into other services and therefore there would not be any dismissals of the 680 people of the ISS who went to mobility? Oh, my God! That's what the honourable Member has to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u150	Mr. Jorge Machado also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u151	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, I welcome you on the subject of the political declaration. For the CFP, the latest statements by the Minister of Finance literally dropped the government mask and categorically denied Minister Mota Soares, who « swore to foot together » that it was not about dismissals. The statements by the Minister of Finance have left it clear as requalifying water equal to dismissals in the Public Administration and have not left the slightest doubt on this matter. The CDS tries to compose the one who was the loss of yesterday and says: « No, there is possibility of relocating in other services in the future ». Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP know very well that no worker placed on mobility has been repositioned anywhere. And the gentlemen. Members also know very well that there is no possibility of reassigning these workers, because all vacancies and all admissions to the Ministries are closed. More: we will have requalification processes, redundancies, in almost all ministries of this government. But PSD and CDS offended social security workers. They want to fire 700 workers of social security who are needed, who work and, several times, use the insult strategy, saying that they do not need or have no role in social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u152	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u153	... which is not true and represents an insult to these people, who work to keep social security working. I ask you, Madam Member, whether it is the intention of the Government, with this process of requalification, to replace workers with wages and rights for workers to work for free for the State, through employment contracts/insertion, and whether it is the intention of the Government to reconfigure the State, promote private businesses at the expense of public services, promote private businesses at the expense of unemployment, precariousness and exploitation of workers. For the PCP, of course this is the goal and we have a very concrete solution that will be discussed in plenary on day 12, which is a bill that repeals the qualification of PSD and PS mobility, which for this purpose is more of the same, that is, more way to unemployment and layoffs, which is important to stop, as the PCP proposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u154	In reply, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u155	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr. Artur Rêgo and Jorge Machado, but Mr. Artur Rêgo, the shot was right next door. You said everything and your opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u156	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u157	Imagine he even talked about obsolete professions! What is that? Are childhood educators, diagnostic and therapeutic techniques, drivers? Or are you talking, for example, about fires or anything that no longer exists in public service? It is that none of these professions is part of the requalification list. All next door! What is true is that the Minister, the Secretary of State of the Public Administration, the Secretary of State for Social Security, the President of the ISS, all of them came here to tell us that it was absolutely false and that there would be no dismissal. The Minister, when the Left Block bench asked him what he meant in the legal-laborative framework « termination of contract », refused to respond because he knows that not only the workers who have no link and who entered after 2009, but all the workers and all the workers hired before 2009 cease the contract in the requalification process - is the law, you know, there is no ignorance here and he is making this mystification purposely, and again, because it is known that at the end of a year in requalification the contract ceases. So what happens? You can call him whatever you want. You can even call it « Maria Albertina », but that is dismissal, it is dismissal. And you lie. They lied here, lied to the workers and lied to the country. The Minister of Finance, yesterday, was very clear in what we have come to see and put in place: there are workers whose contract, at the end of a year, ceases — and on that list are immense — and, if they cease, they are dismissed. Just notice that the Minister of Finance said, yesterday, an extraordinary thing: if they do not find employment of their professions—and I ask: are we going to end the profession of childhood educator, diagnostic and therapeutic technician? Are we going to put an end to all these professions? — they have to go in private. What does that mean, sir? That means dismissal. The truth is that you did not conduct this process clearly and therefore lie. Mr. Jorge Machado, of course, that in addition to wanting to dismantle public and quality social security, if you have another purpose, that is to replace workers with rights, experience, system builders, by workers without rights, by workers who, in many cases, will do slave work, as is the case with employment-insertion contracts and employment-insertion contracts +. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that there is only one truth here and that truth is ideological prejudice and that it is the desire to destroy the public social security system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u158	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u159	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, the years go by, governments change, ministers change, but the Left Block remains the same as itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u160	The workers stay!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u161	It continues, with the same radicalism, with the same extremism, to say wrong of everything and of all and to say that there is nothing good in Portugal. Every time the Portuguese are called to pronounce themselves in electoral acts they say: « You are not right». And they are less and less the Portuguese who support you and vote on you. [[PSD applause.]] This results only from your radicalism and extremism, Mrs. Deputies. Yesterday, Mrs. Finance Minister was in this house and brought good news to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u162	So, what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u163	I brought good news to the Portuguese. The country's commitments in terms of budgetary deficit in 2014 will be achieved, will be exceeded. External credibility is recovered. Mrs. Minister brought more news. He said, for example, that because today we have credibility and we finance ourselves in the external market under very low conditions, at very good values, this allows us to prepare the advance payment to the IMF.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u164	Talk about layoffs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u165	This has two advantages: saving interest and getting rid of the dependence and supervision that the IMF continues to do on our country. But on that, which is good news for the Portuguese, you say « zero», because everything that is good for Portugal you understand is bad for your electoral purposes. [[PSD applause.]] What did you bring to the debate today? I brought up the question of requalification, but I did not run away from it, Mrs Deputy, because, unlike Mrs Deputy, who runs away from the good news, we assume everything and, as we assume everything, we are here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u166	I don't run away from anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u167	And here we are to tell you the following: The programme which is at issue is not the mobility programme that existed in the time of the Socialist Party, in which people were placed on the shelf.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u168	It's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u169	Today, there is requalification. I do not believe that the Left Block, if intellectually honest, says that there are no functions that can be outdated today and that these people, instead of being without doing what they can do, cannot be improved from a professional point of view to move to services where they are necessary and useful to society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u170	If they are intellectually serious, they cannot refuse this programme. And that is exactly what is proposed. Mrs. Deputy, we all know services where there is a lack of professionals. So if there are too many professionals in other services, what is the problem of retraining people, training them and passing them where they are needed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u171	Have you read the law, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u172	That is what has been said and that is what is said systematically throughout the government. Mr President, I conclude immediately by saying that we are in a free country and in a democratic country and if there is anyone who says: "I don't want to go out" is not the honourable Member, nor anyone who can forbid it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u173	Mr Mário Ruivo has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u174	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the parliamentary groups and Mrs Mariana Aiveca on bringing this issue back to Parliament because I think that the more we insist on it, the more we will be able to demystify what is a false speech that the Government and the banks of the majority have made. Of course, I think you need to hear Mrs. Finance Minister better. The Minister of Finance said yesterday that the rules were clear, that it was not worth mysticing and that there would be redundancies in public service. This is what she came to say, and she came to say, in fact, about the employees who were admitted to contracts in public office after 2009. He also said, on this amendment of the law, that — as Mr PSD said, it is not the law of mobility, but of requalification — curiously, these officials who entered in 2009 are the most qualified and will therefore fire the most qualified.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u176	This is what the Minister called professional retraining. The PS has always been accusing the gentlemen. Ministers, Minister Mota Soares and Secretary of State Augustine Branquinho say something that is not true and that there will be dismissals. Mr. Secretary of State Augustine Branquinho even accused the PS of causing social alarm with the announcement of dismissal. But it is true that there is dismissal, it is true that there is this risk and this was clearly defined and assumed by the Minister in her speech yesterday. There is this intention on the part of the PS to follow the Left Block, like all parties that oppose this policy, since, as the PSD itself assumes, through its spokesperson, Marco António Costa, this system, requalification, is the real reform of the State and that it is a measure that should be extended to all ministries, i.e., that should be fired in all ministries. This is how important the PSD is to the issue. As this seems not to have been well heard by the members of the other parties and the PSD itself and the CDS and, as the Government itself had no way of understanding on this matter, the Minister of Finance has come to say what the PSD spokesperson had already said, i.e. assume that it is to fire and assume that it must be sent away.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u177	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. They do not say that the law is equal to that of the PS because the law of PS mobility had no ceiling on the salary ceiling, nor did it ever foresee layoffs within a year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u179	In reply, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u180	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, if you want to test what is radical and extremist, it is very simple, go talk to a worker or a worker who has been in social security for 35 or 40 years, or talk, for example, to the childhood educator in Beja who, per day, does about 400 km, often on his own, to follow up to love and other situations. Go talk to this worker and ask him what radicalism is. Do you know what this worker will say to you? Radicalism is at the end of 40 years that they say I'm worthless. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And you can do this to many of the educators. In fact, you had a golden opportunity to test extremism and radicalism if you had the courage to face the workers who were in Parliament on the 13th in the morning. But they ran away from them!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u182	Mr. Deputy, tell one of these people what radicalism is. Radicalism and extremism is « to throw offboard» of the services which are 20, 25, 30 years old, on the one hand, and to send though the most qualified who entered 2009 telling them that they are inadequate, on the other hand. That's extremism! That's radicalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u184	Mr Duarte Pacheco tells me that I cannot prevent any worker from leaving. I ask you where is the list of workers who asked to leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u186	What happens, Mr President, is the opposite: there is a non-criteria list, the circumstance in which the Ombudsman drew attention and that you do not call any, because they are so radical and so extremist that they hear nothing, nor anyone — they do not listen to the workers, do not listen to their union representatives, do not listen to the Ombudsman and hear the Constitutional Court when they are obliged. I would also like to speak about a few statements made here concerning the previous law by Pedro Mota Soares in 2008 when he said: "We have many criticisms of the diploma and we find that some aspects are unconstitutional. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now this law has been revised, as it is used to say "down", for worse, allowing workers, at the end of a year, to be dismissed. Maria Luís Albuquerque was very clear yesterday. It is not worthwhile for you to want 'to cover the sun with the sieve'! Mr Mário Ruivo, I thank you for the question and, indeed, the concerns today are quite big, but I must also tell you that there was a door that had already been opened and that now entered the'misleading' all, through the door, through the window, everywhere. Therefore, you now have the opportunity to promise people that, if they have power, they will end requalification. That promise must also be very clear. They can't call you anything else to follow the same steps. That's important today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u187	For a political declaration, Mr Nuno Reis has the palace.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :'Portugal cannot fail. And I know that Portugal will not fail” — it was with these words that on 21 July 2011 Pedro Passos Coelho took over the fate of the government. in a speech guided by realism, the Prime Minister asked the Portuguese for courage, persistence, goodwill and patience. And it has been precisely with these attributes that the country has known to meet the challenges of governance marked by a three-year period of external financial assistance and forced sharing of economic, financial and political sovereignty until May. Believing in easy words, unrealistic promises and unsacrificed ways cost the country three bankruptcys, translated into many other external assistance programs, over the past 40 years. But neither the seriousness of the country's economic and financial situation in 2011 nor the relative amount of assistance nor the negotiated and accepted counter-party measures were parallel to the two previous rescues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u190	in the same possession discourse, Passos Coelho stated that Portugal could never return to the illusion that spiral debt feeds growth. I quote: "The drunkenness of debt is limited to stagnating a false and short-sighted well-being until the day the bill arrives and the collapse. Now Portugal also knows the price paid in political autonomy. We will reduce the debt to regain the ability to decide more freely our own affairs and to make our own choices. Do not keep on seeking. ” I remember these words about the current national and European political situation. [[PSD applause.]] last week, Portugal made a successful public debt auction at 30 years of age, thus completely redefining the so-called « debt yield curve ». The interest rates of public debt in all ages are today in the lower values of the last decade and, some of them, even forever. in a country that, on 6 April 2011 announced publicly that it had to make use of external assistance and that it only had enough deposits to cope with two months of payments of wages, pensions and social benefits, we moved to a country with external credibility, in which investors believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u192	A country which is beginning to be able to manage its debt according to the best national interest and which has a sufficient treasury to deal with long months of commitments, not being at the mercy of conjunctural market instability. Yesterday, the Minister of State and Finance announced that Portugal is in a position to repay in advance the loan granted by the IMF, which could potentially save the country a significant amount in interest and free itself from the tight surveillance that this entity maintains over its governance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In June 2011 we had a state with greater difficulties in access to finance, a financial system with greater difficulties in access to finance, an economy with greater difficulties in access to finance. Our companies have had an additional competitive disadvantage over the past few years. To produce at competitive prices goods that other countries want to buy, when the spread paid by a loan represents an incomparable disadvantage in the cost of production, has become a more difficult task and that further values the work, effort and results achieved by our companies. Companies made of people who did not lower their arms, who believed in their abilities, who made weak forces, who did not expect others to do their work for themselves. They have been able to resist and are now in a position to benefit from a State which has once again had the capacity to finance reduced interest and which will eventually have reflected, to a greater or lesser extent, directly or indirectly, in the financial system and in the credit to be granted. A few hours ago, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) announced an extended public debt purchase programme. It is a historic decision that is expected and is expected to have a positive impact on the European economy. But it does not help, as Antonio Costa and the Socialist Party prefer to do, read and reread the new rules of the Stability and Growth Pact in search of a mirifical interpretation or hope that it will be the European Central Bank to solve our problems and deal with our future. This vision, which diminishes us, is based on a lazy idea that there has to be someone doing our job or a dangerous idea that we are not capable of. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Since June 2011, Portugal has fulfilled its share. That is why I repeat, that is why I am in a position to benefit from the ECB's new programme. To demand better conditions and to be able to benefit from them, yes, always. Wait for miracles that don't depend on us or stop doing what has to be done just because you vote in the next election, that's not. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Regardless of the willingness of the European partners, being the owner of the destiny itself is able to exchange the immediate benefit of lunch supposedly free of charge, but with hidden invoice, for the unpopularity of doing what has to be done at the time it has to be done. In June 2011 the Portuguese gave most of their support to a majority, not entrusting those who put us in the hole the task of taking us out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u194	It was with such qualities of courage, persistence, goodwill and patience that the Portuguese were able to leave the pre-bank, regain confidence, take advantage of the return of lost sovereignty in April 2011, create better conditions for economic growth and resume real convergence with Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u195	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u196	I'm done now, Mr. President. The stability reference that the current Prime Minister and his Government have represented has contributed to our being better able today to seize opportunities and face the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u197	To request clarification, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u198	Mr. President, Mr. Nuno Reis, it is indeed amazing to see a majority member of the PSD come here to celebrate the decisions announced today by the ECB. Mr Nuno Reis, I shall read here a few sentences given by Mr Prime Minister. In November 2011, Passos Coelho, in this plenary, when confronted by the Socialist Party on the need for a more bold policy of the ECB and on the need for the purchase of public debt by this institution, replied the following: « It would be a terrible sign for the European economy. In fact, measures of this nature..." — listen to this part, Mr President — «... were responsible for World War II». They are claims of Steps Rabbit in November 2011. But in May 2014 Steps Rabbit returns to the load and, on the same subject, says the following: « If the ECB bought large-scale public debt, that would be wrong. More: that would be impossible, inconceivable and never would happen. And if it happens I am totally against because the ECB cannot get into these matters ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Nuno Reis, I would ask you, on behalf of the seriousness, to comment on these phrases by the leader of your party and Prime Minister of Portugal, saying that you now agree with the Prime Minister and that you keep the comments he has made on this policy. This policy goes against what the Portuguese Government has always defended, it goes against what the Prime Minister has always defended, and it is good to acknowledge that. Mario Draghi today did not just announce a massive public debt purchase program. He said more: that budgetary flexibility should be applied to all countries and not just to some. Well, what did Rabbit Steps say last week? Commenting on the decisions on the flexibility of the budgetary rules announced by the Commission, it not only readily offered a restrictive interpretation of these measures, as it seemed to be congratulating itself on the same restriction. What Mario Draghi has said today is that today's policy announced by the ECB is positive and certainly a historic framework, but to be effective it must be accompanied by a change in budgetary policy, which his Government and the Prime Minister reject. It would be of the utmost importance that you could also comment on this position by your Government and by Mr Prime Minister. Mr President, let us be clear, this is the first time - bringing together the decision last week - that there is at the official level recognition of a mistake in the strategy that has so far been followed in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u199	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u200	I'm done now, Mr. President. So far, the answer was always that this is necessary, but it is not enough. This is the first time there is a correction and a retreat. Unfortunately, this correction and the retreat have always been denounced and fought by this government and by the Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u201	Since Mr Nuno Reis wants to respond jointly to requests for clarification, he now has the floor of Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u202	Mr President, Mr Nuno Reis, first of all, the question to be asked is whether the policy of this government has worked. And looking at public debt, exactly the subject that brought us here, the answer is that no, it didn't work. Public debt today is much greater than when this government took possession. So, if public debt is greater, how can you tell us that we are better today? Well, only if blackmail is politics and that is the intention of this government and this majority. And this is the truth, because whoever defended austerity today has no reason to be satisfied. In fact, Portugal is not better, it is worse, it has more debt, more unemployment, less economy and less future for people. Europe is no better, it is worse, it has entered a deflationary spiral, so that today the 'atomic bomb' that would never be used by the European Central Bank has been used, after all, precisely because it has already been realized that in the austerity toutcourt there is no solution and that this 'atomic bomb' was incontrovertible in the context in which we are. The conclusion is also that many people have had to be sacrificed to, in view of the inevitable occurrence of deflation in the economy, only now to try to correct that hand. But now Europe has more than tens of millions of unemployed, and Europe has more fragmented economy, and Europe's countries have already been more sacrificed. What worked, then? Only blackmail worked. This is the great reality! So the question on the table now is this: will blackmail continue to be the policy of this government and this majority? This is in practice because blackmail has a name for budgetary policy. The blackmail is called « budget treaty ». And here, debt is this blackmail tool, because what the budget treaty tells us is that whenever debt is more than 60% of GDP we have to cut, cut, always cut in what is needed for people — in health, education, social security, in the rights of work, in the future and in the solidarity of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u203	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u204	I shall finish, Mr President, with the necessary question: will the majority continue to submit to Germany and to the budget treaty? Will you continue to submit to this blackmail or will you, in fact, say here that the budget treaty is not to continue and that people's rights will be returned? [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] This is the choice that is on the table: either the people or the finances. Which side is the PSD? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u205	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u206	Mr President, Mr Nuno Reis, at the beginning of his speech began by talking about debt, saying that one of the main objectives of the government was debt reduction. But in all the years that this government has been in office public debt has not decreased, it has increased. thus, I wanted to confront the fantasies of the government, the PSD, the CDS and the honourable Member with the harsh reality of official data. in fact, according to the most recent official data of November on debt, the direct debt of the State increased in one year EUR 14 billion, i.e. 4 %; public debt in the first 11 months of 2014 increased EUR 9100 million, i.e. more than 3, 4 percentage points of GDP; finally, public debt in the eyes of Maastricht, that which is interested in negotiations with the troika, also increased in the first months of 2014, EUR 6700 million, i.e. 6, 7 percentage points of GDP; interest and charges on annual debt increased in the first 11 months of 2014, 2, 5 %, reaching EUR 6900 million, forecasting the government to exceed EUR 8 billion next year. This is the harsh reality, which has nothing to do with the fantasies that you have brought here. in the second part of his speech, he welcomed the decision of the European Central Bank to buy public debt. It must be made clear here that this decision does not mean that this Bank will directly fund the States, as the CFP has been proposing. in fact, the European Central Bank will buy sovereign debt already in the hands of private banks and thus this measure is more public financing to private banks. Furthermore, Mr President, there is no guarantee that this billion euros, one million euros, will stop the economy. Most likely it is kept in the financial system, which is channeled to speculation and to feed speculative bubbles. Mr President, the problem of economic growth is not the lack of liquidity, it is the lack of effective demand, it is the lack of consumption capacity. in this sense, it was necessary to increase the purchasing power of workers, families, Portuguese people, thus increasing domestic demand and promoting economic growth. With regard to this measure, which I stressed does not mean that the ECB will directly finance the States, which was required to amend the Statutes of the European Central Bank, allowing it to directly finance the States, freeing the Member States of the euro area, and in particular Portugal, from submission to financial markets. That's the extent to which it was imposed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u207	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Vera Rodrigues from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuno Reis, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have brought in your political statement, which is once again an opportunity to clarify the public debt that we have to pay today and which, fortunately, today we are also able to manage with another capacity and with another ease, due to the credibility that Portugal has acquired. Mr President, I ask you to clarify to us that public debt is this, which components are included in these debts, so that you can understand, once and for all, what we are paying. We know today that the PS has been absolutely negligent and irresponsible in the management it has done throughout its government. And let us see: three years ago, Mr Deputy, we were not even able to borrow money at 30 days. Today, this government is able to borrow money back at 30 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u209	It's an epidemic of credibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u210	Three years ago, the Socialist Party was, on an extended basis, asking the IMF to lend us money. Today, this government is starting to start procedures for us to repay this loan. Three years ago, the Socialist Party cut wages in the Public Administration. This week, this government started returning the cuts that the Socialist Party started. It was not this government that started to cut those cuts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u211	Three years ago, the rise of the national minimum wage was cut by our creditors' commitment. last year, this government began to make an increase in the national minimum wage in an amount that has not been seen for many years. Three years ago—it is true and we do not deny it—this government had to increase taxes to pay for the disqualification that the Socialist Party has left us. This year, through the IRS, and through the second decline of the IRC, this government starts to return taxes to the Portuguese. Mr President, I ask you whether or not there is a colossal difference between the time of the Socialist Party and the time of this government. I also want to leave here a challenge for the Socialist Party, which so much insists and so much takes refuge in European solutions. This country does not rule with silence and the Socialist Party, which always enthusiastically fills and fills its mouths to speak of the salvation of European solutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u212	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u213	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, we would like to hear more of the Socialist Party saying what it wants to do to the country, regardless of what the European solutions tell us. Tell what they're coming to, once and for all, because otherwise they don't go there. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u214	In reply, Mr Nuno Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me, in particular those of the Members of the left-wing bloc, the PCP and the CDS themselves, who have common standards with regard to the real accounting of public debt. in fact, it should be said, because many seem to remain distracted over the last three years, which has happened a lot about public debt. But it should be said that if we compare public debt in proportion to GDP in the light of what is the new European system of accounts, either in 2011 or now, the rise, Mr. Paulo Sá, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares and Mrs. Vera Rodrigues, it is not what many want to believe. In July 2010 the debt by the time they left the government was already above 110 % of GDP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u216	No, no! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u217	Today, it is true that there is 130 % of GDP. It should be remembered, however, that in the last three years there have been a number of entities, nothing less than 238, which in the past did not count for debt accounting purposes and which have started to count. Of course, this reality has an impact on what is the real public debt of the country. I understand that on the side of the Socialist Party, if you want to somehow pass a cloth or even send under the carpet this hidden public debt, which was associated with a set of public corporate entities, but I can no longer understand that on the side of the PCP and the Left Block the same happens. I would also like to say to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares that for the past three years, particularly those relating to the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, have been a real missed opportunity for the Left Block. Just compare your nervous excitation...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u218	Nervousness is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u219	... and your almost incontested joy as to what can happen next Sunday in Greece with a victory of Syriza with what actually happened in Portugal. On the other hand, say the size of the fece, that your incontested joy is almost like the joy that these gentlemen here sitting on my right side—or, if they want, on your left side—of the Socialist Party, had when Mr. François Hollande began to manage the destinations of France. And he gave in to what he had given, having quickly lost his reformist will on a journey between Paris and Berlin. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] I do not want to find in the words of Mr. Alexis Tsipras, who in recent weeks has been much more moderate than he was a year ago, and what can happen in Greece, if he wins, something truly refreshing than will become the inspiring light for the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u220	Some fear, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u221	But I would like to tell you, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, that it was not a missed opportunity for the country, despite everything, and despite the difficulties of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme. But VV. Ex., precisely during the Program, they lost your historical leader, won two new leaders, and now, more recently, six new leaders. So, the only thing that VV. Ex.s won, removing the loss of your electoral representation, was precisely an increase in the number of leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u222	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u223	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u224	Mr President, with your understanding, I shall certainly have the opportunity to finish by telling the Socialist Party Member João Galamba that you have not been at least attentive to my speech. What I said and what the Programme has revealed is that it is very clear today that Portugal and Ireland will have access to the ECB's programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u225	What about the views of your Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u226	Greece and Cyprus, precisely by doing what they should not have done, which is what VV. They were defending, i.e. by failing to comply with European rules, they would not have access to this Programme under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u227	Sir, your time is up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u228	Finally, Mr President, I would also like to quote Mr Galamba's citations: "Those who do not want to have the pain of having less than 3% of the deficit would like us to be able to have all the flexibility in the world without ever having the responsibility to be able to use it. Coherence is worth a lot» — Pedro Passos Rabbit. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u229	For a political statement, Mr Marcos Perestrello, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u230	Now we're going to know what the PS thinks!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout these 40 years of democracy, all governments have encountered and faced problems. Today we have for the first time a government that has resigned to rule. The current government, faced with the failure of its policy, is on strike with zeal, has ended.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u233	The signs of failure began with the resignation of two key ministers from the key governance areas for this government — the Finance and the Economy. They resigned, and resigned sharply, making public the reasons for their resignations: impotence, failure, the results of their policies, particularly in increasing unemployment. The resignation of the Government occurred in the summer of 2014, when, before the successive lead of the Constitutional Court, the Prime Minister announced to the country, at the celebration of the beginning of the PSD political season in the Pontal, which gave up the reform of social security, sending it back to after the 2015 elections. He quit ruling. We are approaching the end of the legislature and the moment of the choice between the continuation of a government that has aggravated all the problems of the country and a consistent and credible alternative, which gives Portugal and the Portuguese the reasons for a new hope. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government has no doubt about the meaning of the Portuguese assessment and choice. The government is no longer trying to avoid the penalty because it knows it is inevitable, but it is trying to reduce it by resorting to the most inaccurate and gross mystification, thinking that the Portuguese will be deceived or deceived. The government is only good at doing what is wrong. All, or almost all, negative indicators have increased: debt, unemployment, poverty, recession, inequality, school failure. All, or almost all, positive indicators have decreased: investment, competitiveness, human development, education, scientific research, cultural promotion. As much as the Prime Minister thinks everything is normal and behaves as if it were normal, it is not! It is not normal for classes to start in time and schools to close doors in the middle of the year for non-compliance with the obligations of the Ministry of Education, as happens in special education and artistic education. It is not normal for State budgets to need to be rectified every year several times. It's not normal for the courts to be paralyzed. But it is in the National Health Service that the situation reaches more serious contours. Betting to cut more than agreed with the troika, the government invested in health centers, reduced the hiring of health professionals and banned hospitals from hiring. Thousands of health professionals, trained in Portugal, in Portuguese universities, with their efforts and that of their parents and also with the money of the Portuguese taxpayers, emigrated because the government told them they were unnecessary in their country. Now, the government, in the face of the disaster and its terrible consequences, tries to amend its hand and asks hospitals to hire more professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same logic of damage control, the government, which in these three years has extinguished thousands of beds in the public sector, is now anxiously announcing that it wants to open 600 new beds. at the National Institute of Medical Emergency doubled the average waiting times by calling. But it is the dramatic scenario that currently lives in many of the emergencies of Portuguese hospitals, and that every day we enter the house inside, which constitutes a real libel against the impreparation and incompetence of the government. Average waiting times are not normal in many emergencies and it is not normal for people to die after hours waiting for assistance in hospital emergencies. And this situation is not isolated or occasional and does not result from an abnormal flow to emergencies, resulting from a lack of service capacity. One day, the Secretary of State for Health says that public hospitals will send emergency patients to private hospitals and the next day the Minister says they won't go. The method, or lack of it, is always the same: advances and backwardness, total disorientation, lack of strategy. in a word: incompetence. in another word: irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the face of all this, the government wants to throw sand into our eyes, the same sand in which, and for a long time, the ostrich buried its head. in the case of emergencies, you apologize to Christmas and the cold. by the way, the government was not waiting for the cold in January or Christmas in December! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As it should not be waiting for the beginning of the academic year and the opening of the judicial year in September. at this moment, it is a government that has become the victim of its own propaganda. Only someone with a total take-off of reality, with a gigantic shift in the opinion of citizens and with total social insensitivity can say that the country's situation is better today than it was four years ago. in the presentation of the PSD electoral programme, the Prime Minister stated: « This program is far beyond the troika ». He complained: « Portugal is today with the biggest public debt that there is memory(...) and has a level of unemployment that threatens cohesion and social justice». It was in May 2011. Today, almost four years later, Portugal actually has the biggest public debt of memory and more unemployment than it had at the time. This government has failed, and it has repeatedly failed in what it has undertaken as its main mission and on behalf of which it has sacrificed the Portuguese. Well the Deputy Prime Minister may boast about the growth of exports and make the advertising numbers he wants, but the truth is that 2014 has been one of the worst years of export growth in the last 20 years, the fifth weakest. Although Europe, our biggest market, has again grown in 2014, exports of goods have stopped and its behavior in recent months has been mediocre.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u234	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u235	I'm done now, Mr. President. Well the Deputy Prime Minister may note that he is very pleased with the increase in the weight of exports in GDP in the last five years, but this growth trend has already come from behind, even when GDP also grew. Now the weight of exports has also increased because GDP has fallen, not because it has grown very fast, but because the Portuguese and the country have become poorer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the economic and social level, on the global and sectoral level, on the national and international levels, the action of this government has a name that describes and characterizes it: failure! And there's no electoralism that saves you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government now wants to receive the awards and appropriate measures decreed by the Constitutional Court that the Government has always fought and presented, as a sign of the success of its policy, the end of the extraordinary contribution or the return of 20% of cuts in wages and pensions. This return was made by determination of the Constitutional Court, against the will and against the Government's strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u236	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of five Members for requests for clarification. I would like to know whether you are responding together or to each Member at a time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u237	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u238	To make the first request for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u239	Mr President, Mr. Marcos Perestrello, said, and very well, that the government has given up and turned its back on its social responsibilities, which has many difficulties in moving within the constitutional framework, but this government has also spread chaos by many sectors of its governance. It was chaos in justice and in courts, not only with the closure of courts but also with the stubborn and irresponsibleness of the government by imposing the entry into force of its reform in September last year, with the problems that this theimosia caused for justice and for the courts, with the computer platform collapsing, leaving justice completely « to the roles ». Then there came chaos in education, with the clumsiness around the placement of teachers and the start of the school year, which in many schools took time to start, which, in fact, forced the Minister of Education to apologize for the incompetence of the government, no longer to mention the problem that the government created with students with special needs. And now chaos has arrived in health, with the drama that is living in hospital emergencies. It is chaos, in fact, that ends up bringing to the top the result of the policies and options of this government. The government came to say that the problem of hospital emergencies was due to increased demand, but then changed the speech, since it realized that the demand was in fact identical to the same period last year and, in some cases, even with lower values than last year. Therefore, the causes have nothing to do with an increase in demand. Mr Perestrello, in our view, the main cause for the health situation in general and, in particular, for the situation of hospital emergencies, is due, above all, to the maintenance of this government in command of the destinations of this country. This is, for us, the main cause of the health situation and the rest of the sectors. I would like to know whether or not the Socialist Party shares this reading. Finally, Mr President, in the face of the chaos that is set up in hospital emergencies, the Government has announced a set of serious measures. I would say that they are remedies, that they will certainly not solve health problems and hospital emergencies. It is a point of view for a structural problem. I would like to know what the Socialist Party thinks of these measures announced by the Government for the area of health, if the Socialist Party believes that these measures will resolve Portuguese access to health care and the problem of hospital emergencies will be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u240	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u241	Mr President, Mr Perestrello knows - and this House knows - that it is able to set out political ideas in a much more objective, dense and clear way than what has just brought us here. With all sincerity, listen to a representative of the party that led Portugal to fail to say that things now are very bad... Frankly, Mr! Frankly! The country and this House continue without being able to glimpse at least what Dr. Costa thinks and wants for Portugal. Dr. Costa thought or thought he could make a political journey to the legislative elections so more or less in the style of a candidate for Miss Universe, with a speech made of politically correct voids, of the kind of saying that he wants the good of all of us and, of course, also wants peace in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u243	Mr President, it is not enough, it is not enough, we will not agree, the Portuguese will not agree. And it is necessary for the honourable Member, your bench and Dr. Costa to tell the Portuguese what they want for this country. What the Socialist Party thinks, for example, about the anticipation of the payment of the IMF loan and, above all, what Dr. Costa thinks about the conditions that enabled this anticipation of the payment, in particular, the low interest rate and the way of credibility that this Government has given to Portugal and that has allowed this very important operation, about which the Socialist Party still said nothing. And now, what does Dr. Costa think about and wants about the model of decentralization of competences for the authorities that this government has presented? at this moment, there is, as we know, some turbulence in the Socialist Party. We have just heard Dr. Gil Nadais, President of the Municipal Chamber of Águeda, say that the Socialist Party has so far given zero answers on this matter. And we also heard Dr. Gomes Ferreira, socialist leader, say that the PS does not say what he wants and what he thinks about this decentralization model.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u244	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u245	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr President, it is not entirely true what I just said. Indeed, in this political year that began in January, a proposal by the Socialist Party, there is a brand of the Socialist Party. The country can rest because there is at least one proposal. Quoting Dr. Correia de Campos : « The Socialist Party began its election year with the proposal for adoption by homosexual couples». Mr. Deputy, it's little, it's very little. I hope you will tell us more concrete and objective in your answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u246	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating Mr Marcos Perestrello, who came today in his speech, made a negative assessment of what has been done by this government and its policy. But, Mr President, there is a doubt that it is in the air and that it would be important to clarify — even if I really wanted to raise the same question. It seems that the Socialist Party is somehow sorry to have supported the President of the Republic and supported this Government rather than demanding its resignation when it went to meetings with the PSD, the CDS and the President of the Republic to find a supposed consensus and to save this disaster policy for the country and for the Portuguese and is leading to the destruction of the social functions of the State. But, Mr President, we are going to the issues that actually concern thousands and thousands of Portuguese people today. I am, of course, talking about access to health care. We have called attention to the dramatic situation that the Portuguese live and to the difficulties they feel in access to health care. The situation that exists today, particularly in hospital emergencies, is the mirror of the consequence of these policies of de-investment, of reducing the hiring of professionals and of reducing the capacity of primary health care and hospitals. In fact, the measures put forward by this Government do not go beyond palliative measures, which do not go to the bottom of the issues that have led the country and the emergencies to this situation in which they are now. Mr President, I would like to ask you whether it is in your opinion that there is a need to hire health professionals in need, integrating them into careers with rights. We think so. What do you think, sir? Member? It is necessary to put an end to the hiring of temporary work enterprises to meet the need of health professionals in emergencies and health centres. What do you think of that, Mr? It is necessary to end the precariousness and instability of health services and professionals; to strengthen primary health care; to assign family physicians to all users; to strengthen services, particularly at the level of proximity services; and to extend the hours of operation of these same services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u248	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u249	I will finish, Mr. President. What does the honourable Member think about this? It is necessary to strengthen the overall response capacity of the National Health Service, with more beds, with the strengthening of hospital care, with more funding and with adequate funding to meet the needs of Portuguese. It is necessary to put an end, definitely, to moderate rates. I would like to hear your opinion on these matters and whether or not you are in favour of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u250	Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marcos Perestrello, let me begin with the start of your intervention, in which you have made a sort of analysis of the mandate of this majority. Mr President, you can recall that during the period when you say ministers « with a loudness » came out of this government, VV. Did they have three leaders and so many other parliamentary leaders? You are here to say that everything is wrong and that unemployment has increased. Tell me, during this wonderful Government of the Socialist Party, what was the year in which unemployment decreased, in addition to the promise of the 150 000 jobs! Tell me a year! [[PS Member Protests Marcos Perestrello.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u252	Say one, one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u253	Then, you say that this government is the worst in the world, making it think that the previous one had economic growth and that everything was okay! Mr President, why did the Government that you were part of end up borrowing money from the troika and ending up as a resigning government? What went wrong, sir? [[You don't know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u254	I have great esteem and consideration for you, so I thought I would see Marcos Perestrello here who appeared in the posters and who said « we will change what is wrong and improve what is right». It was a sensible phrase, a sensible young politician. But it wasn't that way, he preferred to come to make a policy of burned land. And it didn't even come to talk about the Agenda for the Decade, which, as it has already been classified here, is a type of schoolboy writing that says "it's all right, everything's better, for the year I want to repeat everything..." But to have a concrete idea, zero! Mr. Member, three years ago you could not be indebted nor could you go to the markets, but now we not only debt 30 years, as we are going to return the money that you asked the IMF for. Is it better or worse? Mr, three years ago the public primary balance was less than 929 million, today it is 1168. Is it better or worse? What is today the value of the commercial balance? Is it better or worse? What is the economic growth that the Catholic University showed yesterday? What does the Public Finance Council say? We're going to meet the deficit targets.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u255	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u256	Mr Deputies, I can accept that from the leftmost benches of the Socialist Party this speech is made, but for those who take responsibility in the direction of the Socialist Party, for those who come to tell the country that they have an Agenda for the Decade — it is not for a month, not for a year, it is for a decade — and makes a speech in which it is not able to do just the slogan that he used, with his photograph next to, it is little, it is irresponsible and it is not sensible. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u257	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Pinto from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u258	Mr President, Mr. Marcos Perestrello, today made a brief assessment of the action of this government and wanted to characterize the fundamental traces of the failure of the government. Mr President, when we look back, for the past three years, I think it is not possible — and Mr has not done so — I am not saying that he has — to ignore the pattern of unemployment and impoverishment that this government is leaving the country. In fact, in order to be strict, it must be said that this government had very concrete objectives, which were impoverishment, the reduction of wage value and the increase in working hours. These were three main objectives which led to a very specific circumstance, which was to withdraw to work to deliver to the capital — the power-CL will, of course, be summed up in large part of the government’s three years — while attacking public services, which has reduced them and their quality. Let us look, for example, at the case of privatisations, of which you have not spoken. It was important, perhaps now, to make a small point about what the wave of privatization that this government is carrying out means. He spoke in the National Health Service, which is indeed a paradigmatic example. It is about the health of people and it is about the survival of a structuring public service for all of us. That is why, Mr President, and with this end issue, the Government, in the face of the completely dramatic circumstances that exist today, especially in the emergency services, has presented a set of far-reaching measures, but that do not touch on the essential problems, which are the financing of the National Health Service and the hiring of staff.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u259	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u260	I will finish, Mr. President. We need to tackle these two problems in order to find a solution. But now, Mr Perestrello, it is necessary to speak clearly, it is necessary to say what are the proposals and the commitments of the Socialist Party so that we do not have the maximum to change something so that the essential thing will remain in it, because what needs to be changed is the essential thing and we need to know what the PS thinks about it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u261	To reply, Mr Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u262	Mr President, Mrs Helena Pinto, Mrs Paula Santos and Mr José Luís Ferreira, the concerns that have been expressed are at the heart of the concerns I expressed in my speech. With regard to health professionals in particular, we also believe that it is necessary to pursue a professional qualification path, which will necessarily pass through the end of the method of hiring through external companies and the hiring of qualified professionals and, in this regard, I believe there is no disagreement between our political positions. Mr Hélder Amaral, there is something about which I do not remember — and yet I have been with political life for a few years now, I believe that there are so many of them like Mr Hélder Amaral — which is to see the unemployment rate at 18%. Nor do I remember seeing the unemployment rate, in the years when the Socialist Party was a government and the honourable Member wanted to call here, in the values it reached in 2012. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, honourable Member, I believe that you, like the PSD bench, are making a very great effort to go back and to escape from the political action that we have to develop in this period that separates us by the end of 2015, which is the political assessment of your governance in these three years. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, I would say that for Miss Universe, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party lacks several physical characteristics. He clearly doesn't have physics for Miss Universe and, if I don't get hurt, you don't either. [[PS laughter.]] Mr President, I would just like to answer your questions as follows: I understand the concern of your benches to try to force the Socialist Party to put its government programme on the table immediately. They do this like VV. They already had a government programme and as if they had already resolved the crucial question of whether they were going to vote alone or in coalition, which was not yet able to solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, VV. They move the political debate there only to escape the essential question, which is that of evaluation, of comparison.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u263	Evaluate and compare!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u264	We can evaluate and compare what unemployment was when you arrived at the government and what is unemployment today; what was the wealth of the country when you arrived at the government and what is today; what was the growth of exports when you saw it. They have reached the government and what it is today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u265	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more serenity. No one can hear. Please continue, Mr Marcos Perestrello.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u266	VV. Ex. they may seek to divert the political debate there, but I believe that we all have sufficient political experience to know that the essential issue that the Socialist Party wants to put on the table is the assessment of the government's actions and will not run away from it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u267	And good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u268	More: in response to one question, I believe Mr Hélder Amaral — 'what do you think of the replacement of the debt to the IMF for lower interest rates? ' — I would say that if, by virtue of the action of the European Central Bank, the overall reduction of interest rates at European level, which allows us to replace a loan of 4 or 5 % with a loan of 1 %, was not taken by the Portuguese Government, we would already be entering the field of Danish management. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u269	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little more silence so that we can hear and continue our work. At the end of the period of political declarations, we will generally proceed to the joint discussion of the proposals of lein. 269 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Military Infrastructure Programming Act and 270 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. To submit the bills, Mr. Minister for National Defence has the floor to whom I comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we conclude with the presentation and discussion of draft revisions of the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Programming Act, the revision cycle of the national defence structured documents.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u271	I'm sorry, Minister, but I wanted to appeal to you. Members who have made a little more silence to hear Mr. Minister's speech. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u272	It was a work started with the revision of the Strategic Concept of National Defence, widely discussed and debated by civil and military society and from which all other documents emerged. That is why there are no further two rejected documents that we bring to this House today ; they are the last two parts of a framework that we started working on for more than two years and which we called Defense Reform 2020. It was a work always developed in conjunction with the military leaders and aimed to implement a more sustainable model for national defense and for the Portuguese Armed Forces. in this context, we review the draft National Defence Act and the Organic Law of Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces, which culminated in the approval of their revisions by this Assembly. with regard to strategic defence planning, we completed the development work of the Military Strategic Concept, the missions of the armed forces, the system and the force device. We have recently adopted in the Council of Ministers the new organic laws of the Ministry of National Defence, EMGFA ( Major General State of the Armed Forces ) and Ramos, enabling these structures to function with effective efficiency and efficiency gains. The draft diploma of the new Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces is now also at a final stage, which will enter the legislative circuit very soon. That is to say, in the national defence we have carried out a real structural reform. [[PSD applause.]] at the same time as we revisited the entire legislative building of the national defence, we also started a rigorous analysis of all military equipment acquisition programs that were under way. It was the result of this analysis and the new conceptual framework that we were developing that led us to determine the continuity of some of the planned programs and the obvious cancellation of others. We did not cancel them just for lack of money; we cancelled them on the basis of the careful analysis of the return and the benefit of each of these programs. I am referring to the NH90 helicopters, which will cost the Portuguese state no more than EUR 500 million in the coming years. I am referring to the Pandur armored cars, in contractual non-compliance with the time repeated for several years. I am referring to the programme for the construction of ships for the Portuguese Navy, which was due to be completed in 2012, but which, in 2011 when this government took possession, had an implementation rate of only 2, 5 %. That is, in total, with these decisions, we have released the public record of future charges over EUR 1300 million. Repeat : EUR 1300 million. [[PSD applause.]] We were, of course, demanding the way in which taxpayers' money was spent. It was with this same spirit, with this same requirement and even with the rigor of saving that the country claims that we conclude and present this new law of military programming, already approved by the Military Superior Council and the National Defence Superior Council. It is now Parliament's task to discuss the proposal in an open and transparent debate, for which the Government is fully available to also, within the Committee on National Defence, to provide all the clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I insist on the expression « new law of military programming », because this law is not simply a review or a small adjustment of the previous law. It's more than that, it's a change of philosophy. It is a more pragmatic, more immediate and consequently more realistic law. We have reduced its duration from 18 to 12 years. We can no longer count on the possible alienation of military material as a form of financing new acquisitions, which invariably led to a chronic overcrowding of the law. It is, in this sense, a more true and more transparent law. We have reduced the global budget available for the different programmes. But this does not mean that the Government has decided to reduce the quality of the investment in the Armed Forces. Yes, it means that we are obliged to make every euro invested in national defence more efficient and cost-effective, necessarily means a more useful investment for the level of ambition that Portugal can and should have in this regard. The military programming law that we present today does not satisfy egos of whoever it is, meets needs. The military programming law that we present today does not serve military parades, serves the needs of those on the ground. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We do not choose equipment to be displayed on the stops; we choose equipment to be operated by our soldiers. Equipment, effectively necessary as is the case for the two ocean patrol vessels to strengthen the surveillance of the exclusive economic zone of Portugal, the replacement of the old light weapon, over 50 years old, or aircraft C-130, with increasing flight restrictions in international airspace. These were the main priorities that we, together with the military leaders, set for the modernization and re-equipment of the Armed Forces, in line with the force objectives defined in the framework of the strategic interest in national defence. I end by referring to the proposal of the new Military Infrastructure Programming Act ( LPIM). The implementation of the reform enabled 62 additional military buildings to be released in a total of 220 buildings available for profitability under LPIM. This is a proposal which takes into account the current conditions of the real estate market and which also provides for a greater link between the services of the Ministry of National Defence and those of the Ministry of Finance, allowing greater agility in the property regularization of the buildings contained in the law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the last three years have been very difficult for the Ministry of National Defence and, more importantly, for the Portuguese Armed Forces. It was three years of great budgetary pressure, in which everything seemed to be at stake. It was three years in which this Government deliberately decided to rethink the conceptual model of national defense without dogmas or prejudices. The economic crisis and the Memorandum of Financial Assistance, to which we have been forced, have posed new challenges for the conditions of security and defence of our country, some of them impacting on cohesion and military morality. A reality that requires a definition of the priorities to be taken, in order to maintain the operationality of the Armed Forces and the defence of our country's interests. That's what we did. from the strategic concept of national defense to the organic laws of the Ministry and branches, everything was discussed, debated, seen and reviewed in the light of the new reality with which the country was confronted. Between the starting point and today, the pressures, demonstrations, criticisms and protests of legitimate non-conformity occurred. But the truth is, over the past three years, the government has never saved itself, never quit doing what had to be done, even when it was more comfortable not to do so or when it was easier and more popular to leave everything as it was and receive the praises always hypocritically given to those who for nothing do not disturb the interests that are installed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That's why, sirs. Members, I know that you will not keep well in mind those who, living today in the shadow of a past brushed of ephemeral notoriety in the military institution, are now systematically fighting against the government in the opinion published, now here, now there. They are figures of a recent past that we do not want to repeat. But the truth is that we did not take over this folder, nor did we make the reforms that we did to serve these figures. I have been and am in this position to ensure that, at a particularly critical moment in our history, the Armed Forces are always given the conditions to carry out their missions with dignity and to continue to serve Portugal with honour. We are aware, with the approval of these diplomas, of what is also better in the military culture, that is, of the duty to be fulfilled. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u273	Three Mrs were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. First of all, Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, this is an important and fundamental debate for the Portuguese Armed Forces. These proposed laws that the Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic are a synonym for the work that this Executive has carried out, with a view to defining a national defence policy appropriate to our dimension and the economic reality with which the country has been confronted. The motto has been to do more with less, making better use of existing resources, in order to ensure the fulfilment of the missions assigned to the Armed Forces, both domestically and those arising from our international responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u275	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u276	The law of military programming is a good example of this position of responsibility, ensuring the necessary funds for the re-equipment and modernization of our Armed Forces and it will be on it that I will make some comments and ask a few more concrete questions. Of course, I cannot fail to emphasize the involvement of military leaders in this whole process, which ultimately gives the Government's proposal even greater compliance with the actual operational needs of the branches. On the other hand, this is a law that has many commitments that come from the past and where we should not seek a simple analysis, in order to see which branch has more or less assigned resources. The system of forces must be seen in an integrated way and not by branch, in a more modern and dynamic approach to the interoperability of the Armed Forces. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am now asking Mr Minister a few specific questions. The first is whether the military programming law complies with the budget distribution provided for in the Defence reform 2020. The second is to know how this law should be adapted to the recent results of the Wales Summit, where an increase in investment in defence has been defended. Finally, I ask whether the Minister can indicate some programmes where real savings have been achieved, as a result of new contracts or acquisitions. I conclude by saying that this is only the general debate and, when these proposals come down to the Commission to be discussed there in the specialty, we will all certainly have an opportunity to find consensus in order to contribute to this important legislation. The Armed Forces and, above all, Portugal deserve us to make this effort. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u277	Mr. Minister said he would answer together, so I have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr.António Filipe, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u278	Mr António Filipe ( CFP ) : — Mr President, Minister, I shall have the opportunity in my speech on behalf of the CFP on the proposed military programming law, but it is important to say from now on that, from our point of view, this is not a military programming law. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u279	Mr António Filipe ( PCP ) : — No, no! Even yesterday afternoon, the parliamentary groups arrived at a package coming from the Ministry of National Defence with the forms of the programmes contained in the military programming law which should be the subject of a vote in the specialty, as they have always been, but which do not appear in the bill. In fact, in accordance with the existing law and the proposed law submitted by the Government, each programme and each project should be included in the military programming law, but do not appear in the proposed law. What is stated is a vague set of capacities that say nothing about what is essential for the House to decide and that the Portuguese have knowledge. In addition to other aspects: these programme sheets bring the chance of « confidential ». We do not understand how the Assembly of the Republic can appreciate, in its specialized capacity, programmes that arrive at the Assembly with the chance of 'confidential', as if the Portuguese had no right to know and the Members had no duty to decide on the strategic options for military re-equipment, which, of course, are paid by the Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u280	Mr. João Oliveira ( PCP): — Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u281	Mr António Filipe ( CFP ) : — Mr President, this is not a proposal for a military programming law. However, there are specific questions to which Mr Minister can only answer. We want to know very clearly what is done by the ocean patrol ships, the NPOs, because the cancellation of the NPO program was done by this government to destroy the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo as a public company. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u282	One of the reasons for the so-called inadmissibility of the Shipkeepers was the cancellation of this order by this Government, by V. Exa, who took it here, and now, after the infrastructure of the Shipkeepers has been handed over to Martifer, the Minister here announces that, after all, they always want the ocean patrol vessels. We want to know exactly what the government wants. We want to know whether, after all, the cancellation of the order was only to destroy the Viana Shipyards and whether or not the Government wants to move forward with the ocean patrol vessels, which are fundamental to the surveillance of the Portuguese coasts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u283	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u284	We also want to know whether or not the Government's intention is to move forward with the multipurpose logistics vessel ( NPL) to the Navy and whether or not it will advance the acquisition of KC-390 aircraft in place of Hercules C-130. It was important for the Government to define itself on these issues, for the Government to tell us what comes, because indeed the proposed military programming law is 'zero' on specific issues that we have the right to know. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u285	Before giving the floor to Mr. José Lello, I inform you that Mr. Nuno Sá Costa of the PSD also enrolled. That being the case, the four of us. Members registered to request clarification. You have the floor, Mr. José Lello.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u286	Mr President, Mr Minister, I know your thoughts, we have had so many contacts in the Defence Commission that I was not surprised by your intervention, nor would I deserve objective questions about it. However, I do not stop asking you a few questions. One of them has to do with the articulation we are enjoying today and with issues of transparency. If, in the previous law, all the amendments were made by decree-law, in this privilege - the order is made. Right now, of course, there is a loss of visibility and transparency in relation to this type of change. On the other hand, in the law on the programming of military infrastructures, revenue is intended not, as in the previous law, by 100 % for the Ministry of Defence and for new investments, but by 5 % for the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources and by 5 % for the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance, which is, of course, a surprise. It is appropriate to ask: why only and only that type of option? Finally, he said that — and I am very sorry to know this — the purchase of equipment that is provided for in this legislation does not aim at military parades, that is, it does not have to do with military parades. Now, that raises an interesting question for me. If, in fact, it does not aim — and well! — the military parades, I ask you: what previous minister has acquired equipment strictly for this visibility in military parades?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u287	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u288	This would be an interesting answer that Mr. Minister could give. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u289	Mr Nuno Sá Costa, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u290	Mr President, Minister, I wanted to begin by leaving a very quick previous note to Mr António Filipe, telling him the following: there was a president of a football club in Portugal, who a few years ago said that a repeated lie would become true several times. I believe that, in politics, this maximum should not be followed and, more often than not, that the honourable Member here or outside say that the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo died by work and grace from this government, that does not turn into truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u291	They're dead, they're dead!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u292	The Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo are alive, working, thanks precisely to this government and this majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u293	Are the Estaleros alive? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u294	Mr Minister, I would like to point out what you said about these two proposed laws that we are discussing and to ask you two very brief questions. In fact, it's a paradigm shift. I would like to say that these, yes, are proposals for laws that come forward, which take into account what is spending on public money, taxpayers and Portuguese people out there. It is a paradigm shift because, if we take into account the implementation of both the law of military programming, the law of programming the military infrastructures that we are discussing here and the current laws, which we want to review from today on, we find that we have a very different execution than what we want for the future. How can I ask you, Minister, in particular, what has been the implementation of the Military Infrastructure Programming Act since 2008 so far? With regard to the Military Programming Act, what have been the materials sold since 2006? What was planned in the Military Programming Act from 2006 to 2011? What materials were sold, how long and where were the money from these sales? Mr Minister, these are the questions I leave you with, because I believe that we should discuss concrete issues, such as what these laws bring back to national defence and, in particular, to the programming of the system of forces. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u295	To reply, Mr. Minister for National Defence has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u296	Mr President, on the issue raised by Mr Luís Vales, which I would like to thank, I would like to say that what is envisaged in this military programming law in terms of investment in terms of distribution, staff and operation is about 12 %, which will allow 15 % to be achieved by the end of the mandate, i.e. by the end of the Defence 2020 reform in 2018. In 2018 it is planned to reach 15 % of investment and I must remember that it is not the only source of financing that could exist because, by the alienation of equipment that may take place in the meantime, it will be possible to invest even more in additional equipment. Therefore, it is within the values that have been enshrined in the Defence reform 2020. As regards the issue of savings, Mr President, I will tell you that with the programmes I mentioned recently, i.e. EUR 550 million in the case of NH-90, EUR 120 million in the case of the Pandur, EUR 80 million in the case of the light weapon and in the case of the marine programmes which were planned and which were not in a position to be executed, we saved EUR 1305 million in the public record. Mr António Filipe, we are supporters of representative democracy and not direct democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u297	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u298	It's a really significant difference. This means that there are subjects that need to be treated in a logic of confidentiality, precisely in order to preserve national interest and there is no vulnerability to the military capabilities that the country has.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u299	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u300	And that confidentiality doesn't stop... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u301	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to continue your speech. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u302	As I was saying, this confidentiality does not prevent — and the honourable Member knows well, he has been here for a long time —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u303	Yes, I am!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u304	... that the discussion be held in the seat of the Defence Committee. It is not the first time that the Defence Commission meets at the closed door to deal with confidential matters, precisely in order to preserve national interest and there is no vulnerability to the military capabilities available to the country. Mr Deputy, I thought that the Communist Party could now speak of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u305	You should have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u306	It is because, Mr. Deputies, it was sufficient to pay attention to and verify that the principal leader of the Union of the Viana do Castelo Trade Unions, affiliated with the CGTP, was present at the ceremony of approval of the first shipbuilding project and expressed, in public statements, his optimism regarding the maintenance of shipbuilding and jobs. [[PCP protests.]] There are already about 120 jobs that were created and among them former workers were recruited from the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo. That is, a matter that was vetoed by the bankruptcy and the impossibility of responding to the shipbuilding, now with our government, has saved the shipbuilding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u307	It was, it was...! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u308	... the interests of the workers have been safeguarded and, although, Mr Deputy, the Union of the Union of the Viana do Castelo Trade Unions, affiliated with the CGTP, applauds the decision of the Government! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u309	Why don't you answer the concrete question we asked you?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u310	This is annoying. [[PCP protests.]] I know it bothers Mr. Antonio Filipe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. José Lello... [[Protests from the PCP, having Mr.António Filipe beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u311	Talk to the patrols!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u312	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little less noise in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u313	Mr António Filipe, I speak with great pleasure, moreover, is providing that I speak with even more pleasure. As for ocean patrol vessels, which contained a programme that should have been implemented by the Government of the Socialist Party by 2011...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u314	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u315	... that had a value of EUR 480 million and for which the construction of six NPOs was envisaged, Mr. Deputies knows what was the degree of execution, when the country grew, had money and was modern? Do you know how much they were executed?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u316	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u317	Two, five percent were executed! The former Government spent EUR 8 million on the construction of ocean patrol vessels. Well, Mr President, we have been able to rebalance the public accounts and it is planned, in this military programming law, to build two ocean patrol ships. More: they already have orders from the Minister for the use of the transition of balances to that effect, i.e. the Portuguese Navy will be able to have two more ocean patrol ships built now, when the former Government did not build and should be obliged to do so by 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u318	And why did Mr. Minister cancel? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u319	Thank you very much, Mr António Filipe, for giving me an opportunity to talk about this. [[PCP protests.]] Mr José Lello said: "I was listening to Mr. Minister and I confess that he was not being surprised." I was looking at Mr Deputy, I heard him speak and I was thinking the same thing: « I will not be surprised at any quarrel that you are doing in these matters. We have known ourselves for a long time in the Defence Committee, and I am not surprised at the way it put matters."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u320	What a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u321	First, with regard to the revenue now enshrined, fortunately, we will allow it to be obtained by the availability of the buildings that have been placed in order to have, even in the part that concerns the national defence, more than ever achieved with another criterion. Mr President, I would like to reply that the degree of implementation of the LPIM has been — imagine! — of 11 % in 2010 and 2009 was 69 % because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it's all been sold to Estamo! All the buildings were sold to Stamo!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u322	Mr. Minister, you've finished your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u323	I will finish, Mr. President. As regards the purchase of equipment and the issue of stops and the past, I understand, Mr President, the guilt complex, which is more or less Freudian size, which the Socialist Party has in relation to this matter. I said that it was not to buy equipment to be displayed in parades; if the Socialist Party thinks it bought equipment to be displayed in parades—and therefore « it has stuck the cockroach»—it is not here that you have to find the solution to this problem, which is a guilt complex of the Socialist Party itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u324	He spoke, he spoke, but he didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the intervention period. Mr. José Lello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u326	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members : After inherent approval by the Government, the Assembly of the Republic is now coming to appreciate, debate and vote on proposals for the law on the programming of military infrastructure and military programming. The law on the programming of military infrastructures aims at programming investment with the infrastructures of the fixed component of the force system, with a particular focus on the profitability of military buildings available for disposal, with a view to the application of the funds thus released. With regard to the previous legislation, only 90 % of the revenue achieved for the implementation of the activities provided for in the law are allocated, when they are currently fully directed towards their implementation. Despite the priority referred to in the cost-effectiveness of the military assets available for this purpose, with an expected fit of the order of EUR 32 million, the articulate is not explicit enough with regard to the strategy that the Government will undertake towards the achievement of this objective, nor is it explicit with regard to investment plans in new infrastructures. In addition, these programmes that translate into multi-year, complex projects and significant budgets, in this version of the Military Infrastructure Programming Act, are not coordinated and executed by any support and coordination groups, constituted for this purpose. on the contrary, such follow-up shall be taken into account by the Directorate-General for National Defence Resources, which, together with the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance, share 10 % of the revenues received from divestments. Why, Minister? These institutional bodies, having no specific tasks related to the assignment of alienation, lease, exchange or similar, of real estate or other assets, do not raise high expectations as to a ratio of greater effectiveness, in line, indeed, of what has happened in recent years. The law of military programming underpins the priorities of national defence for the re-equipment of our Armed Forces, including a set of programmes funded through multi-year investments for the acquisition of new equipment, or to modernise others already members of the military inventory. Some of these investments are mandatory because they stem from the need for the planned updating and maintenance of existing arms and media systems in the allocation of branches. The Government applauded the launching of a national defence reform, the so-called « Defence 2020 reform », which began with the adoption of the strategic concept of national defence in April 2013, « establishing guidelines for the strategic defence planning cycle and guidelines for the reorganization of the national defence macrostructure, with the aim of adapting the capacity of the Armed Forces to fulfil the assigned missions in a restrictive budget framework. Do not keep on seeking. ” Adopted legislation following the strategic concept of national defence, including the military strategic concept, the missions of the Armed Forces, the system and device of forces, the Government, at the end of its term of office, with few months of governmental useful life, has now adopted the law of military programming, listing a substantial and increasing financial burden for subsequent governments. The proof that this legislative initiative is part of a political propaganda framework is that, before the diploma was presented to the Assembly of the Republic, even before it was approved in the Council of Ministers and the fact that the LPM programmes were incorporated into the Parliamentary National Defence Commission, the Minister had already announced the acquisition of four Stanflex naval means to the Danish Navy. Apparently already negotiated and treated, even before there was legislation that would assess such a purchase. On the other hand, in the documentation sent, the modernisation of Hercules C-130 H aircraft is highlighted, providing for investments aimed at the extension of its operationality for more than 15 years up to 2030. This raises the question on which it will have been intended to participate in the Embraer KC development programme, a strategic air transport capacity aircraft to be produced in part in Portugal. A very positive reference has to do with the acquisition of two ocean patrol vessels, to join the other two identical ships, built in Portugal and at the service of the Portuguese Navy. With regard to the future monitoring of the implementation of the LPM, it seems to us that the Government should present to Parliament an annual report with detailed information on the implementation of the various financial programmes and implications. in the articulated under consideration, references to lease contracts are deleted, despite the fact that this type of contract is maintained, in particular aircraft C-295 and helicopters EH-101. Finally, it can be considered that the proposed law in question contains elements of flexibility in the management of its executive process, in particular the possibility of the annual burden on each of the measures to be exceeded under certain specific conditions. at the same time, it excludes from budgetary captivating the substantive capacities of the programmes, while otherwise maintaining this possibility through budgetary law. It is also planned to schedule investments financed through proceeds from the disposal of arms and military equipment. The planning of this military programming law is limited to a period of three four years, rather than the cycle of three six years, provided for in the background, and its review will take place in 2018 and consecutively in the two years. The law still in force had been reviewed in 2008, and the subsequent crisis was hampered by its subsequent review. The examination of these two diplomas will be carried out in plenary session of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u327	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : We are discussing today, in general, two very important laws for carrying out the missions of the Armed Forces, whether these internal missions, or those external missions in the alliance system in which Portugal is located and in the national forces highlighted. Missions whose performance of our military, their competence in the performance of these same functions, each day represent an addition of security and well-being for our country and for the Portuguese people. It is enough to remember all the missions carried out in Portugal or abroad by our military and appreciated by everyone by competence and, above all, putting their own lives at risk to ensure the safety of all those who are covered by the exercise of their duties. With the international situation, at the level of threats, increasingly explosive, with repercussions, indeed, at all levels (social, political, economic), the increasingly important need for well-equipped, well-prepared, organized and motivated Armed Forces is a national design that should all embrace. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u329	These two national laws therefore aim at this same effort to ensure our capabilities in our Armed Forces. Firstly, the revision of the Military Infrastructure Programming Act will allow an update of the military assets available for conservation, maintenance — these are the objectives —, modernisation and construction of military infrastructures and will therefore be created devices that will enable the profitability of the assets affected by national defence made available for that purpose. This review has aspects that improve the 2008 text and are part of the so-called Defence 2020 reform, which has enabled Mr. Minister to release 62 additional military buildings in total of 220 existing for the purpose of this law. The aspects that improve the law — and I quote some — are their adherence to reality with regard to current real estate market conditions. The previous law made in 2008, in a different economic framework, was, however, exaggerated in the values designed for the profitability of this same heritage. This law has the ‘right feet on the earth’, it understands the economic and social environment of the country as well as the real estate sector. This realism and reality will enable a more effective performance of the law's own management. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u330	On the other hand, the law itself provides for a hierarchy of all investment proposals for the building of military infrastructure capacities and modernization. And other aspects have already been mentioned here by the Minister. however, I would like to highlight two aspects that seem important to me in relation to the law. First, it relates to the need, and I believe that this will be within the framework of the new Directorate-General created and through the regulation itself of the law, by decree-law, of the existence of a monitoring structure or something similar to the assessment of the sale of buildings. This is important because a very professional structure is needed to ensure the credibility of the same law. Secondly, Mr President, for some reason, it is the availability not of 100 % but of 90 % of the disposal money exclusively for investment in military infrastructure. I would like to recall that earlier the law also financed the military pension fund, that this fund was extinguished and the responsibilities passed exclusively to the Ministry of Finance, which will obviously provide a higher net money for the management of the same modernization of the Armed Forces and military infrastructures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u331	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u332	Mr Minister, the second initiative refers to the law of military programming and I stress the importance of it. The Nation knows the value of its Armed Forces, does not dispense them and believes in the factors of their dignity. The CDS is therefore committed to the Armed Forces, with its re-equipment, investment and adequacy to the new challenges that they face, never forgetting that the sovereignty functions lie in unnegotiable public goods. The military programming law is therefore a legal instrument that defines the State's investment options for the defence sector. The lack of investment in armed forces equipment is often mentioned. I would like to point out that between 2001 and 2011 more than 3000 million were invested in military re-equipment. A very strong effort was made by the various State budgets in the re-equipment of the Armed Forces. Highlights : the new submarines, the modernisation of the F-16, the modernization of the P3 - Orion, the purchase of the C-295 tactical aircraft, the Dutch frigates, 8x8 Pandur wheel armored vehicle and finally the helicopters EH-101. This very important re-equipment effort, which has been made, ensures that the Armed Forces are currently fulfilling their objectives and missions. On the other hand — and I am referring again to this — the world in which we live is too dangerous and uncertain to allow, by action or omission, that true national error which would be to see the threats grow, but let the security levels of Portugal decrease. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u333	Therefore, this law also represents new commitments. New commitments based on the country's economic situation, on the availability that Portugal will have over the next 12 years to invest in the Armed Forces, a scenario based on the Defence 2020 reform which provides for 1, 1 % of GDP to be spent on the Armed Forces and therefore adapts the law to that same reform. That's very important. The military, military leaders and the armed forces know exactly what the State has to invest in, so this military programming law guarantees not only the maintenance of military equipment that has been acquired in new and will be maintained—there are maintenance programmes that are associated with this law, including helicopters, aircraft, submarines or others—but also the acquisition of new military equipment that is still missing to ensure the fulfilment of these same missions as I have already spoken about. I stress, therefore, as has been said here—and I think it should be mentioned by all, because it is one of the few programmes that had the unanimous support of the House, which are the NPOs, the ocean patrol ships, the first two, the Viana do Castelo and the Figueira da Foz...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u334	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u335	... which were made in Viana do Castelo — which Mr. Minister announced, and well, that two more will now be built also in the Marine Ships of Viana do Castelo. I think this positive aspect of the law should be highlighted. On the other hand, I highlight other programmes, such as the replacement of the light weapon, the armored vehicles 4x4, the MLU (mid-life upgrade) very necessary for the three frigates MEKO since the 1990s that need modernisation and, finally, one of the air resources that Portugal has at this time is the C-130, whose modernisation can guarantee its use until 2030 and, eventually after Portugal's entry into the new programme for its replacement, it can resell them with quality and at a better price than if they were being abandoned. This is also important to be mentioned here. Finally, I would like to point out, Mr Minister, that this law—and the Socialist Party said more or less that in the speech of my dear friend José Lello—is a law of continuity. The Basic Law, the Military Programming Act, is 2001, has been amended and revised in 2003, then in 2006 and now in 2015, should have happened in 2008 and 2010, but it happens now. This continuity law has programmes arising from old commitments, from governments supported by this majority or from governments supported by the majority of the Socialist Party that must be guaranteed. On the other hand, there are still some funds for investment in new programmes. Therefore, this continuity to ensure that the Armed Forces are equipped should deserve broad consensus and, as my colleague from the PSD has said, we will seek in the speciality debate that the Socialist Party accompanies us in this consensus for the modernization of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u336	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u337	Therefore, Mr Minister, this review of the Military Programming Act and the Military Infrastructure Programming Act is due to a long way of reform that this Government has been doing over the past four years, which began with the revision of the strategic concept, the definition of defence reform 2020, the amendment of all the most important documents — military strategic concept, military device, military missions, the structure of the Ministry of National Defence, National Defence Law, LOBOFA ( Organic Law of Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces ) and, finally, the law of military programming and the law of military infrastructure. Therefore, the whole picture is set for the coming years to ensure that the missions of the Armed Forces and the remarkable exercise of our military, which I welcome, continue. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u338	Mr Joaquim Ponte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Military Programming Act (LPM) is a fundamental law for the Armed Forces, in the context of their re-equipment and modernization process, so that they have the ability to fully implement their missions, even in a more restrictive budgetary framework. The Military Programming Act aims at programming the public investment of the Armed Forces in armaments and equipment, with a view to modernising and operationalizing the force system, implemented through the building of its capabilities, as well as the programming of the investment to be carried out on account of the proceeds of the disposal of arms, equipment and ammunition. in a systematic way and following an orientation that reveals the existence of a true strategic thought for the Armed Forces and for national defence, the government has been undertaking a structural reform of this sector, both in the legislative level, both in terms of concepts and doctrine, and in terms of military structure. I recall here some important points of these reforms. in this legislation, and for the first time, a complete review of the legislative framework relating to national defence and the organization of the structure of the Armed Forces was carried out. in the context of the reorganization of the macrostructure of national defence and the Armed Forces, the revision of the National Defence Act and the Organic Law of the Armed Forces Organization was carried out. in the plan of structural reform in national defence and the Armed Forces, the Organic Laws of the Ministry of National Defence, the General Staff of the Armed Forces and the branches were approved, enabling these structures to function with effective efficiency gains and efficiency in relation to available budgets. On the other hand, within the framework of strategic defence planning cycles, work on the development of the military strategic concept, the missions of the Armed Forces, the force system and, more recently, the force device has already been completed and approved. With the approval of these important documents, the military defence planning cycle was initiated, which established the political orientation for defense planning in the four years 2014 - 2018, setting out the guidelines for the capacities to be built and the associated priorities, taking into account the current system. At the same time with the beginning of this planning cycle, the present review process of the Military Programming Act, whose long period of operation justified its updating in the face of the changes which, however, took place, including the economic-financial environment, at the level of the registered programmes and the approval of the entire conceptual building that supports the strategic concept of national defence, the military strategic concept, the specific missions of the Armed Forces and the system of forces. The proposed military programming law which we are discussing here in general seeks, in our view, successfully, to adapt the financial resources to the construction of the operational component of the force system, reconciling the commitments made with the priorities for the maintenance and development of capacities. I am here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the most significant amendments to the 2006 Organic Law and which I think are important steps to speed up and improve this whole process. Therefore, the current proposal is to schedule the public investment of the Armed Forces in armaments and equipment over three quarters, instead of three sexeniums; it provides for a specific annex, Annex II, for investments financed with own revenue resulting from the disposal of surplus military equipment; it provides for the transition of unexecuted balances of the current Law to the new, to strengthen the same capabilities; the possibility of budgetary changes between chapters, from the competence of the member of the Government responsible for this area is envisaged. This is, in our view, a fundamental law for the Portuguese Armed Forces, for their equipment and for their modernization. I am sure that we will now be able to help improve this bill in our specialized work. National defence is traditionally an area of consensus and PSD expects this discussion to take place around the defence of the interests of Portugal and its Armed Forces. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u340	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: It is not worthwhile to shake the world's danger, to increase threats, to focus them and to determine them. And the recent interventions of the so-called 'Western World' in Syria or Libya did not lead to a reduction in threats or the explosive burden on international distancing, quite the contrary. Therefore, it is not worth trying to relate security levels to strategic concepts that have not proved and, in fact, the path of peace is not done through such military objectives. The first note is therefore to try to unlink the relationship between the purchase of weapons and what are the political objectives that are inherent in the Military Programming Act. in the Military Programming Act, as you can say, there are not two ocean patrol ships that make a political change.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u342	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u343	They do not make a political change and therefore what is there, either in terms of continuity or in terms of future, is absolutely coherent and taxary of the strategic concept, is to serve as a ‘car of support’ to NATO, NATO objectives and other types of international intervention. That is why the system of forces is designed and, therefore, in this respect, we do not follow the Military Programming Act, regardless of whether we can vote on one capacity or another. Ocean patrol vessels, for example, are claimed by everyone. Everyone defends them for reasons that have to do with the protection of territorial waters, the defense of nature, with multiple aspects. Therefore, surely, we want a specific and positive vote in favour of ocean patrol vessels, which are a kind of sebastic thing, a D. Sebastião that we have been talking about for many years in Portugal. But here too something is required. It is that, unlike the past, where the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic had the possibility to vote on the drafts, currently in this bill, this does not happen. Mr. Minister says he'll be seen in committee, but I don't know why confidentiality. There is no confidentiality in this matter! The representatives of the Portuguese people have the right to vote here in the Hemicycle in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, which are the weapons that the country buys and to vote as in the past—and I do not believe it to be direct democracy. We can then detach which weapons do not really compensate for the country and which equipment can be useful for the defense of nature, for civil protection, for the prevention of risk, for the support of populations, because they will certainly have our support. On the Military Programming Act, it is curious—it will only be a legislated technique—the Minister of National Defence is disappearing and always referred to as the responsible of the defence area... I don't know if the current majority has an idea of making the institutional figure of the Minister of Defense disappear or of merging with anything else, but, whatever it is, it doesn't seem to me to be a very appropriate legislating technique. The Military Infrastructure Programming Act does not have the political importance of the Military Programming Act, but there are some comments to be made, one of which has to do with the entire real estate process. It is that the military infrastructure of the Law is basically a sales counter and other real estate operations, is to determine the flow of sales, of real estate divestments of the Armed Forces. I believe that this is decided upon by an inter-regular order, by the responsible for the area of defence and by the Minister or Minister of Finance is not appropriate and that a government decision would be more appropriate, more selective and correct. Therefore it seems that it is only to verify a smoothing of procedures, but this does not help from the point of view of political scrutiny, control and monitoring of government acts. We are at a time when these aspects really lack greater transparency, greater visibility and should not simply be resolved through an inter-regular order. Mr. Minister of National Defence, I believe you have had a moment of diatrics here with people who had ephemeral glory. It is seen that it comes in some way with Azedum in relation to some sectors. But I believe that what we have to do in the Assembly of the Republic, in Parliament, is not to discuss the glory of some military leaders or current or past politicians. This controversy does not really interest us; what we are interested in is knowing exactly what the Portuguese State will spend EUR 1000 million on every quadriennial. These EUR 1000 million are a huge investment in Portuguese society, which has a huge social deficit and difficulties in all order to make its public services more prevalent. And EUR 1 billion in armament, per quadriennial, is a expenditure that really society cannot accept with a light mind. Whatever the case, there is a sort of a missing present in this debate, which is the entire history of submarines. In so many interventions of the so-called « institutional arc », of the arc which has been the joint policy of the parties that have passed through the government, none spoke about the history of the equipment. They all spread out those that have been the military purchases and the country's difficulties in that regard. Therefore, for our part, Mr Minister, we say without a hint, but very vehemently: we will not agree with this kind of policy, as we did not agree with the discussion of the national strategic concept and the military strategic concept. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u344	Mr António Filipe now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u345	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: The Government has finally submitted a proposal for a review of the Military Programming Act ( MPL ). The LPM was supposed to have been reviewed in 2009, but it wasn't. They will say that the responsibility was from the previous government, and it is true that yes, but not having been revised in 2009, it was supposed to have been reviewed in 2010 and it wasn't. And the current government should have promoted the revision of the LPM in 2012, and it did not, or in 2014, but did not. The LPM, which is a law of strengthened value and which, in its own terms, should be reviewed in the even years, will be reviewed, after all, in a single year and with six years of delay. But has the 2006 LPM never been reviewed? It's obvious it was! It has not been reviewed in accordance with the Constitution and the law, but it has always been reviewed in the wake of its own provisions, through captivating in the State budgets, through harsh decisions taken by the government, which executes very much, executes little or nothing, which eliminates some programmes and creates others, which does what is very well understood, as if there was simply no military programming law. However, this process of revision of the LPM is born wrong, even very wrong. The Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic a bill which is little more than a blank paper. Article 14 may be read. the proposed law that the proposed revision law of the LPM should contain capacity sheets and projects with appropriate description and justification, as well as their detailed planning. And actually, whenever the LPM was reviewed in accordance with the law, it was. In 2006 we voted in plenary, each and every programme. Well, the project sheets to be submitted to this House arrived yesterday to the parliamentary groups with the chance of « confidentiality ». You don't believe it! LPM programs cannot be confidential. Capacity sheets and projects, with appropriate description and justification, as well as their detailed planning, must be included in the bill and the projects must be voted on in the specialty, one by one, as they have always been. What the Government makes out of the bill is a list of unmatched capacities in concrete programmes. Nothing for this House to appreciate a number of capabilities. What this House has the right to decide and the Portuguese have the right to know is whether the Government intends to renew planes C-130 or acquire planes KC-390 and what the costs of these options are. The Assembly has the right to decide and the Portuguese have the right to know that ships will be purchased for the Portuguese Navy, if they are the NPOs (Ocean patrol vessels), if they are Danish patrol ships, if they are a logistics polyvalent or if they are more submarines. The Portuguese have the right to know. Military programming programs and bills cannot be confidential. We are talking about billions of euros that the Portuguese pay for their taxes. We're talking about strategic options for the Portuguese Armed Forces equipment. We are talking about the revision of a law, whose application was involved in nebulae processes with very serious consequences for the credibility of the state and for the pocket of Portuguese. It was within the framework of the LPM that the famous counterparties contracts, never completed, amounting to billions of euros, were made to purchase helicopters without ensuring their maintenance;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u346	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u347	... that contracts were made for the acquisition of wheel armors that remained to be delivered; that large proceeds were guaranteed to Escom, the family Espírito Santo and the mysterious characters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u348	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u349	The Military Programming Act should be taken very seriously. We are talking about a large amount of public resources, the use of which must be well understood by the Portuguese. in the definition and implementation of investments for armed forces equipment there must be a very thorough definition of priorities, there must be rigour, there must be transparency. The Portuguese that pay these investments with their sacrifices must understand their importance and know exactly what they are paying and cannot accept that the Assembly of the Republic assigns blank cheques of billions of euros to governments to make and undo contracts that they understand under stealth clauses, to the flavor of poorly explained criteria and to the service of foreign interests to good management of public resources. This proposal for a revision law of the LPM, in addition to its unacceptablely vague character, contains its own denial. If not, let us see: the LPM sets out the capacities and the respective budgetary appropriations and determines that the laws approving the State budgets each year contemplate the appropriations necessary for its implementation, but then allows the Government to make budgetary changes between chapters, transfer appropriations between the various capacities and projects, create new capacities and projects. I mean, the LPM exists, but the government does whatever it wants. Moreover, Article 10 is set out. that of the bill that the LPM's appropriations are excluded from budgetary captives, but, without prejudice to the law that approves the State budget, when everyone knows that it is precisely the law of the State budget that defines the captives. Moreover, according to Article 17. the law that will be approved does not apply to the current programmes until they are fully implemented, i.e. the law that is in force and that the Government proposes to expressly revoke that it will continue to apply to all existing programmes, including programmes not covered by it. Read and don't believe it. This means that the 2006 law is revised and repealed, but the law that applies is the law that is repealed and applies to the programmes it foresees and to the programmes it does not foresee. Strange review of this LPM.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u350	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u351	I will finish, Madam President. With regard to the Military Infrastructure Programming Act, there has been very little to say. The enforcement of the law has been almost inexpressive and made essentially at the cost of a very small number of buildings sold to the State itself or to public entities. The bill, however, provides for divestments of more than EUR 92 million for the next four years and more than EUR 80 million for the next four years. What will these divestments be? No one knows, but if the paper holds everything, the Journal of the Republic, which is electronic, still holds more. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u352	Mr António Proa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u353	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs Secretaries of State, Mrs and Mrs Members : Today we have examined two important legislative pieces, within the framework of a structural reform for national defence and for the Armed Forces. I would like to refer in particular to the proposal for a Law on the Programming of Military Infrastructures. This is a clearly different proposal from the law you want to replace. It is a realistic proposal because it simplifies where complexities and agiles occur where conditionalisms occur. Another important change is that it articulates how it should be with the military defence planning cycle. It is common to hear — still here today we have also heard, although in other words — that the Military Infrastructure Programming Act is a "accountful" law. And, in fact, it has been. It has been a law of « take account », because, in order to apply the revenue from the return of the defence heritage in the enforcement of the law, it has never actually done so. He did not do so because he did not make the estate profitable with unrealistic estimates, because the little he did was always consumed totally with the need to fund the pension fund of the Armed Forces. It is also a law of « account», because the sales it has made were made to the State itself or to the Stamo or to the local authorities. It was therefore in fact a law of « take account ». The proposal now submitted by the Government to Parliament is the most realistic and enforceable law. In fact, it is worth mentioning here that the references made by Mr José Lello to the fact that they previously had 100 % of the funds to be made for the implementation of the programme and now only 90 % were by themselves a fragility of that law. It is clear from what has been said that 100 % of zero is always worse than 90 % of something that will certainly not be zero. In addition to these amendments that have already been discussed, this proposal was also preceded by the resolution of the problem of financing the pension fund and thus the resources are released to be applied where revenue should be applied in the implementation of the Military Infrastructure Programming Act. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a question which, for the PSD, has particular meaning. As a result of the reform of the Armed Forces, it was possible to release even more real estate that will be used in profitability under this law. The Armed Forces and national defence also have a social dimension, in addition to the strategic dimension. in this context, it should be clarified whether the reduction of buildings under the new force device will not imply desertification and abandonment of the interior of the territory. In other words, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to clarify whether or not the coherent military presence is guaranteed, with all the meaning it represents and the importance it constitutes throughout the national territory. This is something that is also very important for us, because, as I said, the Armed Forces play a social role in our territory, which is important that, with this law, still be assured. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u354	The Bureau has the information that there is a transfer of time from the CDS-PP to the Government, registering Mr Minister to intervene. You have the floor, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u355	Madam President, I'll be very quick. I would just like to reaffirm that, with these diplomas, it culminates a coherent and complete reform that is for the first time carried out throughout the legislative building of defence in a democratic regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u356	You're already repeating yourself, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u357	This is the first time that, from the Strategic Concept of National Defence to the Military Programming Act, a total cycle is completed. This allows for better stability in the development of the Armed Forces missions and, therefore, I understand that the opposition is silent, is somewhat uncomfortable and somewhat irritable because the Government in this regard has fulfilled all that was proposed at the beginning of the mandate. But as it also seemed to be a lesser transparency or a greater leakage to the debate, I must say to Mr António Filipe that the debate in the field of expertise allows all the scrutiny of this matter done by the Members of the Nation, who are elected by the Portuguese people, who have seats in the Defence Commission and who have an obligation to hold a competent and informed discussion and do not use this matter for political barge, making this discussion outside of what is the interests of national defence, the interests in terms of capabilities and interests in view of the Armed Forces. Therefore, our challenge is to ensure that this competent, demanding discussion, with scrutiny by the representatives of the Portuguese people, is done quietly.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u358	Speak for yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u359	The Government will be present in the Defence Committee and, most certainly, Mr President, it will not fail, as it has always done, to clarify everything in order to clarify and respond to this diploma in terms in which it must respond, because, as you know, this is a diploma that meets the national interest. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u360	End this debate here. We shall now proceed to the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. I'm asking the ladies. Members who make their registration. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 214 presences, to which are added 6, signalled to the Bureau ( Deputies Glória Araújo, Rui Pedro Duarte and Sérgio Sousa Pinto, PS, and Deputies André Pardal, Luís Leite Ramos and Vasco Cunha, PSD ) performing 220 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u361	Mr President, would it be possible to indicate the number of Members for each bench?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u362	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes are all the same; I will tell the Members when the vote is time and I will indicate who votes in favour, who votes against and who abstains. I do not think it would be necessary to refer to the number of Members per parliamentary group, but as such I am asked to give this information. We have 105 PSD Members, 69 PS Members, 24 CDS-PP Members, 14 PCP Members, 6 Left Block Members and 2 Greens Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u363	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u364	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u365	Madam President, I have doubts as to whether I can be registered, so I would like to thank the Bureau for taking this into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u366	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the voting process to be safer, I think we can opt for the following methodology: the Bureau has the sense of vote and then the honourable Members. Members confirm whether they were registered or not. So, "we play" for insurance. Let us then proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 246 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Condemning the violence and massacres carried out by the terrorist group Boko Haram ( PSD, CDS-PP and PS ), which the Secretary, Mrs Paula Cardoso, will read. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u367	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In the early days of 2015, terrorism again displayed its violent and cowardly face. The terrorist attacks on Charlie Hebdo and a kosher merceries, which led to the death of 17 people, occurred in parallel with the massacre perpetrated by the terrorist group Boko Haram who decimated hundreds of people in the city of Baga, Nigeria. According to the data estimated by Amnesty International and other non-governmental organizations, more than 2000 inhabitants will have been murdered and 20 000 others will be evicted. The numbers remain uncertain, since the attack occurred, the access to Baga is blocked and the Nigerian authorities have lost control over the territory at the northeast border. A few days later, the same group set up with explosives a 10-year-old girl and blew her up in a Maiduguri market in Borno State, killing 19 people. It was not the first time that young people were used in the suicide bombist plans of Boko Haram in urban areas. After these attacks, other attacks and abductions have occurred in recent days in different regions of Nigeria, but also outside their borders, in Cameroon, causing more deadly victims. These attacks demonstrate how this jihadist terrorist organization is intensifying the ferocity, brutality and cruelty of its attacks, destabilizing the nation with greater population density of the African continent, and seeking to consolidate its power with a view to imposing a self-proclaimed Islamic Caliphate, extending its influence and actions to neighbouring countries. Nigeria is one of the countries that has suffered most from Islamic radical terrorism in recent years. We all remember the attacks in the states of Borno and Adamawa, or the attack in Gamboru Ngala or, more recently, the kidnapping of nearly 300 girls. The result is, unfortunately, the same: numerous fatal and wounded victims, panic and widespread fear. Since 2009 attacks on churches, police stations, barracks, schools, hospitals, markets, information agencies or United Nations buildings have already lost account of the total number of fatalities. The terror sown is enormous. The United Nations Security Council has already condemned this week the escalation of Boko Haram's attacks on civilians and expressed deep concern about Boko Haram's activities that are undermining prospects for peace and stability in Central and West Africa. The Council also expressly admitted that some of the acts of Boko Haram represent crimes against humanity. in this context, the Assembly of the Republic : It expresses its profound condemnation of the terrorist attacks by Boko Haram in recent weeks in regions of Nigeria and Cameroon, and expresses its grief for the loss of human lives in the hands of terrorism, expressing condolences to the Nigerian and Cameroonn authorities and peoples, and recalling the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 6 / 2012 of 16 December 2011, which recalls without distinction all the victims of terrorism worldwide, and expressing the hope that the condemnation already issued by the Security Council against Boko Haram would translate into effective and supportive actions of the entire international community. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u368	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u369	Madam President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote statement on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u370	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote, in general, on Bill No 275 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Approves the new Statute of the Roads of the National Road Network. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by three draft resolutions aimed at the cessation of the same diploma. So, once they have the same object, we will vote for them together. Let us then vote on draft resolutions 1222 / XII ( 4 ). a ) ( BE), 1225 / XII ( 4. a ) ( The Greens) and 1227 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December, establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public public public passenger transport service in the city of Lisbon, without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Companhia Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA( Carris, SA ) [ Parliamentary assessments No 127 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 125 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] within the framework of Parliamentary assessment No 127 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December, and the proposed amendments submitted by the PS are down to 6. the Commission for discussion and vote in the speciality. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is followed by three more draft resolutions which have the same object and which, therefore, we will also vote together. Let us then vote together on draft resolutions Nos 1223 / XII ( 4 ). a ) ( BE), 1226 / XII ( 4. a ) ( The Greens) and 1228 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, establishing the general legal framework for the granting of public transport service by metropolitan of passengers in the city of Lisbon and in the neighbouring municipalities of Great Lisbon, covered by the respective area corresponding to level III of the Nomenclature for Territorial and Statistical Purposes ( NUTS ), without prejudice to the maintenance of the concession granted to the Metropolitan of Lisbon, EPE ( ML, EPE ) [ parliamentary assessments n. 128 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ) and 126 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] within the framework of Parliamentary assessment No 128 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ), Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, and the proposed amendments submitted by the PS are down to 6. the Commission for discussion and vote in the speciality. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a new set of incident draft resolutions on the same subject is followed in the vote script and we can therefore follow the same voting methodology. Let us then vote together on draft resolutions Nos 1221 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PS ), 1224 / XII ( 4. a ) ( BE), 1229 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 1230 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( The Greens) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December approving the process of indirect reprivatization of TAP's social capital, Portuguese Air Transport, SA [ Parliamentary assessments No 129 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) and 130 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ]. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] Mrs. Members, now, we will generally vote on Bill No 655 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Registry Code, taking into account assisted medicinal product procreation, adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex ( BE). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with 120 votes against (PSD, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Antonio Braga, Antonio Cardoso and João Portugal), 90 votes in favour (PS, PCP, BE, The Greens and PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte, Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, Francisca Almeida, Joana Barata Lopes, Sérgio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho) and 10 abstentions (PSD Deputies Ángela Guerra, João Prata, Maria José Castelo Branco, Maria Paula Cardoso, Odete Silva and Vasco Cunha and PS Deputies Isabel Oneto, José Junqueiro, Miguel Laranjeiro and Renato Sampaio).]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 656 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminating the legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with 119 votes against (PSD, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Antonio Braga, Antonio Cardoso and João Portugal), 89 votes in favour (PS, PCP, BE, The Greens and PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte, Francisca Almeida, Gabriel Corte-Real Goucha, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho) and 12 abstentions (PSD Deputies Ángela Guerra, Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, Joana Barata Lopes, João Plata, Maria Paula Cardoso, Odete Silva, Pedro Saraiva and Vasco Cunha and PS Deputies Isabel Oneto, José Junqueiro, Miguel Laranjeiro and Renato Sampacio).]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote, in general, Bill No 753 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with 119 votes against (PSD, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Antonio Braga, Antonio Cardoso and João Portugal), 91 votes in favour (PS, PCP, BE, The Greens and PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte, Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, Francisca Almeida, Gabriel Courte-Real Goucha, Joana Barata Lopes Sérgio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho) and 10 abstentions (PSD Deputies Ana Sofia Bettencourt, João Plata, Maria José Castelo Branco, Maria Paula Cardoso, Odete Silva and Pedro Saraiva and the PS Deputies Isabel Oneto, José Junqueiro, Miguel Laranjeiro and Renato Sampacio).]] We will move on to the general vote on Bill No 754 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with 120 votes against (PSD, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Antonio Braga, Antonio Cardoso and João Portugal), 91 votes in favour (PS, PCP, BE, The Greens and PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte, Cristovão Simão Ribeiro, Francisca Almeida, Gabriel Courte-Real Goucha, Joana Barata Lopes, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho) and 9 abstentions (PSD Deputies João Plata, Maria José Castelo Branco, Maria Paula Cardoso, Odete Silva and Pedro Saraiva and the PS Deputies Isabel Oneto, José Junqueiro, Miguel Laranjeiro and Renato Sampaio).]] What effect did you ask for the floor, Mrs. Isabel Oneto?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u371	Madam President, I would like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last four legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u372	Thank you very much. Mr António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u373	Madam President, I shall also present a statement of vote justifying my decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u374	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u375	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u376	Be registered. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u377	Madam President, it is to announce that I have now delivered a statement of vote on the last three legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u378	Be registered. Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u379	Madam President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u380	Be registered. You have the floor to Mrs. Conceição Caldeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u381	Madam President, I shall also make a statement of vote on the last four draft laws that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u382	Be registered. Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u383	Madam President, I would like to say that Mr Rebel and I will present a statement of vote on these initiatives that have just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u384	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u385	Madam President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on the initiatives we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u386	Be registered. Mrs. Odete Silva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u387	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u388	Be registered. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the votes. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1218 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the process of sub-concession of the Viana do Castelo Shipyards and their reintegration into the State business sector and the defence of jobs ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1219 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Return of the Shipkeepers of Viana do Castelo to the public sector ( The Greens). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u389	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u390	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u391	Madam President, it is to announce that Mrs Sandra Pontedeira and I will present statements of vote on these draft resolutions that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u392	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 269 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Law on the Programming of Military Infrastructures. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Bill No. 269 / XII ( 4. ( a ) down to 3. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 270 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Bill No 270 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) also lowers to 3. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we now vote on draft resolution No 1187 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Preservation of the ISBN ( International Standard Book Number ) service ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We proceeded to the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration on the proposal for a law No 264 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Transposing Directives 2014 / 49 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on deposit guarantee systems, and 2014 / 59 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 amending the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, the Organic Law of the Bank of Portugal, the Decree-Law No 345 / 98 of 9 November, the Securities Code, the Decree-Law No 199 / 2006 of 25 October, and Law No 63 -A / 2008 of 24 November. With regard to this final text, a request by the CFP, for a speciality vote, of its proposals for amendments to Articles 153, shall be made. o-J ( Exceptional State Financial Support ), as provided for in Article 2. o ( Amendment to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ), 145. o-R ( Termination of the activity of the transitional institution ), as set out in Article 3. the ( Addition to the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ), 8. o -A ( Framework) and 15. o-B ( Exceptional public investment ), as set out in Article 10. o ( Amendment to Law No 63 -A / 2008, of 24 November ) and 16. o-B ( Conditions of application ), as set out in Article 11. o ( Addendum to Law No 63 -A / 2008 of 24 November ). Mrs. Members, the CFP has 2 minutes to submit the request. To that end, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u393	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, not satisfied with the use of billions of euros to cover holes of private banks and not satisfied with the endless succession of scandals of private banks—in the BPN, in the BPP, in the BCP, in the BANIF, and more recently in the BES, the PSD / CDS government insists on using all of us' money to help a few speculating bankers. The Government and the majority of PSD/CDS strive to create and maintain the illusion that more appropriate regulation and supervision and improvement of banking resolution mechanisms will alone be sufficient to stop the bleeding of public resources to the banking system. But the truth is that the legislative amendments proposed by the Government in the area of regulation and supervision of the financial system and banking resolution mechanisms will not solve the problem, just as the successive legislative amendments of recent years have not managed to prevent billions of euros of public money being injected into BES recently. The Minister of Finance itself acknowledged, in the debate of the specialty, that the resolution mechanisms now proposed will not eliminate the possibility of using public money to save private banks. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this legislative initiative the government changes something to keep everything in it, trying to deceive the Portuguese, trying to hide that their option, an ideological option, is to continue to deliver the taxpayers' money to the bankers and shareholders of the large economic and financial groups. The CFP does not accept that public money is used to help private banks. Therefore, we demand that articles of Bill No. 264 / XII be tried ( 4 ). ( a ) allowing and regulating public investment in aid operations to private banks. We also do not accept that the most valuable assets of the transitional institutions, constituted as a result of the implementation of resolution measures, can be sold to private parties, leaving the State with the losses. We therefore demand that the article of the Government's proposal for a law be invoked which opens up this possibility. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u394	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the PCP's request for a lawyer. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The effect of counsel is thus impaired and we shall then vote on the final text in question. [[The vote was taken with the vote on the PSD and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mr. João Galamba asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u395	Madam President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party will present to the Bureau a written vote on the vote just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u396	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u397	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u398	Is it for the same purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u399	Yes, Madam President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will also make a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-01-22.u400	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We therefore conclude the vote. Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, at which, in addition to having a period dedicated to political declarations, the Decree-Law No 172 -A / 2014 amending, under and in the development of Law No 30 / 2013 — Social Economic Bases Act of 8 May, the Statute of the Special Institutions of Social Solidarity, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 119 / 83 of 25 February, amended by Decrees-Law No 9 / 85 of 9 January, 89 / 85 of 1 April, 402 / 85 of 11 October, and 29 / 86 of 19 February [ Parliamentary assessment No 123 / XII ( 4. ( a ) ( PS ) ]. Bill No. 640 / XII ( 3 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Extend the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and determine the reintegration of the Arsenal do Alfeite into the Navy organic ( PCP ) in conjunction with draft resolution No 1231 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the extinction of the Arsenal do Alfeite, SA, and its reintegration into the Marine Organic (BE). The Left Block will hold its parliamentary days this weekend. I wish they were well. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 56 minutes.]]
