ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 13 minutes.]] I request the authorities to open the galleries. Let us begin our work with the reading of the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein. 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the overtax of IRS ( PS ), 43 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extension of revenue provided for in the 2015 State budget ( PS ), 44 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates final evidence of 1. the basic education cycle ( PCP ), 45 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Eliminate examinations of 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles ( PCP ), 46 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Sets out the requirements for access to the teaching profession and ensures the annulment of the effects of the assessment of skills and knowledge ( CFP ), 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Change the basis for the concession of the light metro system of the port and the Statutes of the Port Metro, SA(BE), 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service by making the first amendment to Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June and repealing Decree-Law No 174 / 2014 of 5 December and Decree-Law No 175 / 2014 of 5 December, determining the nullity of acts in the meantime practised in violation of this diploma ( BE), 49 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the cancellation and reversal of the process of sub-concession of STCP and amends the Statutes of STCP, SA, annexed to Decree-Law No 202 / 94 of 23 July ( BE ), 50 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintains the legal personality and autonomous existence of the Metropolitane de Lisboa, EPE, of the Companhia de Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, SA, da Transtejo, Transportes do Tejo, SA, e da Soflusa — Sociedade Fluvial de Transports, SA ( BE ), and 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the eligibility conditions and the whole of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( The Greens ) ; Parliamentary assessments( 9 / XIII ) ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August 2015 which regulates the Baldies Act, approved by Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, as amended by Law No 89 / 97 of 30 July, and Law No 72 / 2014 of 2 September ( BE ), and 10 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 of 31 August defining the procedures for the regularization of the debts of the House of Douro ( BE ) ; and draft resolutions 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Innovation in the public sector ( PS ), 16 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by the public management of the companies STCP and Metro do Porto ( Os Verdes ), and 17 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the cancellation and reversal of the merger, restructuring and sub-concession process of the transport systems of the Carris and the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda consists of two points, the first is for political declarations and the second is for the examination of petitions. Thus, for a political declaration, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before beginning, a first greeting to the indigitation of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Dr. António Costa, to Prime Minister of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government of the Socialist Party, which will soon take possession, is not only a constitutional government as politically legitimate. Politically illegitimate would want to rule against the will of the majority or, worse, coerce... [[Coagir?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u5	...a part of this majority do the opposite of what I said in election campaign. The governance of the PSD/CDS coalition over the past four years has sinned several times: whenever it used the information in a partial, non-transparent way; whenever it postponed the provision of information or even omitted it; when it deceived the Portuguese with the announcement of measures that did not take place. Today, the State Secretaries of Budget and Tax Affairs have been heard in the Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernization on what is the fallacy of the refund of the overtax in 2016. It is worth recovering the history of the overtax, because this is the perfect illustration of the pattern of behavior of the XIX Constitutional Government. It didn't start now, it's already from 2012. To pretend that the huge increase in taxes was not his full responsibility, Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas apologized to the Constitutional Court, whose decisions had an impact on the 2013 State budget less than one third of the budgetary costs of the recession and the destruction of employment caused by austerity beyond the troika. Part of this huge tax increase was the famous overtax of IRS, which was extraordinary and started to be 4.5%. When the Budget was approved, the overtax remained extraordinary, to be in force only as long as the Adjustment Programme lasted, but went down to 3, 5 %, which was immediately concluded by Paulo Portas, responsible for the original proposal, as an extraordinary victory of the CDS. Having arrived at the end of the Adjustment Programme, the 2012 promise, which was already a breach of the 2011 promises, was again violated, giving rise to a new promise : the government did not end with the overtax anymore, but committed itself to returning all the VAT and IRS revenue that exceeded the collection planned for these taxes in the State Budget for 2015, and gave it the name « confidence contract between the State and society ». Realizing that the IRS revenues entered in the Budget were excessively optimistic, the Government tried to embolden the gross revenue collected from this tax, through the withholding tables in the source, published after the approved Budget. Through this file, it is collected in excess of 2015, on the other hand of generous reimbursements in 2016, long after the elections and with another government in office. In other words, the government inflates tax revenues, through a forced loan to taxpayers, to pretend that it fulfils its tax contract with these same taxpayers. It's a weird way to make a deal! So we get to VAT. in the last week of December, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs changed the relevant rules for VAT reimbursements by office. The stated objective was to strengthen the fight against fraud and tax evasion, but in reality what was created was a kind of proof of obstacles, in which it is impossible to distinguish taxpayers who commit fraud from others who only commit lapses or have small disagreements in their declaration, and then it is up to those same taxpayers, because the Tax Authority does not help them, discover in the hundreds or thousands of invoices where such misconformity is found. In this way, taxpayers, their rights, and many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, who have a lot of cash problems, are being harmed. With six months' delay, the supertax return simulator entered the election campaign. The simulator was widely released in July, in a genuine electoral propaganda manoeuvre announced by the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, with various interventions from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and even with the support of the President of the Republic, who on that same day welcomed the news of the return of 19 % of the surcharge. on July 24, Maria Luís Albuquerque said: "Our expectation is to have a better value than this." On 25 August, 19% rose to 25% and Maria Luís Albuquerque himself said: "My expectation at this time is that it can be even a better result than that." on the eve of the elections on 25 September, the same Minister of Finance says: « The truth is that as the months progress, as we are also in the cycle of economic recovery and acceleration, our expectation is that the result will continue to be positive and may even improve». on the eve of the elections, the refund of the overtax was 35% and could even improve. These are the elections that pass, and that value suddenly goes to zero. This was an expected mistake, indeed, expected by many people, including the Socialist Party, by other opposition parties, by the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support (UTAO), by the Order of Official Accounting Technicians, by the Council of Public Finance and even — stop! — by the IMF. Many doubts were raised without any clarification. The Socialist Party asked questions, oral and written, and no one answered. in the Finance Portal, the supertax simulator not only does not disclose all the information provided in the State Budget as sending the possible analysis. A false perception of the return of the overtax of IRS was created because, in order to have a refund of the overtax of IRS in 2016, the revenue collection would have to overcome the goal, and it was easily found that this would not happen. Today we finally realize that it is not really going to happen and this has even been confirmed by the State Secretary for Tax Affairs. The PSD/CDS government, which now ceases to function, has deceived the Portuguese with a mere propaganda approach during an election campaign period. This is just one example that Portugal and the Portuguese need even another government and a government that does not use such files.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u6	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u7	It is curious that the last measure of this government, to be discussed, is as misleading to the electorate as the first one in July 2011, when Vítor Gaspar took advantage of the Government's programme's debate to present the cut of half of the Christmas allowance that year. Both in one case and in another, although differently, the right failed the electorate scandalously.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u8	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u9	I will now finish, Mr President. If the cut in the 2011 Christmas allowance remains for history as the first mark of non-compliance with this government's electoral promises, also now, the fraud of tax credit will remain for history as the last electoral farce of this government. With PSD and CDS, one thing is right: history repeats itself, but always as a tragedy! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u10	In order to clarify, four Mrs have signed up for clarification. Members, I ask Mr João Galamba how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u11	In groups of two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u12	So Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u13	Mr President, Mr Galamba, I would like to tell you that I appreciated your political statement and I follow many of the concerns you have raised here. The honourable Member was present, as we were in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization this morning, where Secretary of State Paulo Nuncio was heard to provide clarification on the budgetary implementation and the so-called refund of the overtax. I would therefore like to ask you whether you were fully satisfied and clarified with the clarifications provided there by the Secretary of State and whether this announcement, made during an election campaign, of the refund of 35 % of the surcharge, was made only to deceive the Portuguese or whether that amount of 35 % was supported, was based on the budget implementation which was known at the time that the same notice was made. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u14	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u15	Mr President, Mr Galamba, for a few moments, I thought that I would make a political statement to greet the government that is completing functions for a number of reasons: for the transparency of information, which allowed Mr Galamba to make this political statement; for the good budgetary implementation that is now transmitted to all Portuguese people; for the fact that he has an efficient tax machine that fights fraud and tax evasion, which allows tax revenues to rise above what was budgeted; for the effective control of public expenditure, because the effective expenditure is below the budget; for this reason, Portugal is able to achieve a deficit of less than 3%, leaving the excessive deficit procedure; for we have a primary surplus of over EUR 2000 million. But about this, zero! This is because everything that is good for Portugal is bad for the Socialist Party... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u16	...and it's bad for Mr. Deputy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And, Mr President, in view of this fact that you want to hide, you have decided to talk only about the overtax. First, they began by saying it was a maneuver; then they evolved, they stopped saying it was a maneuver, because they realized that, by making this accusation, they were holding the tax workers responsible for being manipulated and at the service of someone,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u17	...and they went on to say that it was due to delays in the refund of VAT. It has been found that there is no delay in the refund of VAT and that the revenue itself is above the forecast. So they had to invent a third reason. I understand that those who have not been in the committee or who have spent a long time away from the committee's work may still have any doubts. [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u18	But it became clear to all that there is no problem with VAT, yes, with IRS, because IRS has a revenue below the forecast. And it has a revenue below the forecast because, as has also been explained, on the one hand, the capital incomes are below the estimated, and on the other hand, and this is especially relevant, the Portuguese are already paying less IRS. And the Portuguese are paying less IRS because the family coefficient has been introduced,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u19	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u20	... that you want to finish, making families pay more IRS. This is the truth! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is why, because the Portuguese are already paying less today, which, possibly, at the end of the year, may receive less in terms of the refund of the surcharge. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u21	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u22	Mr President, Mr Paulino Ascenção, it seems that, in fact, what was full and abundant at the moment is 0%, one apparently around 0%. Mr. Duarte Pacheco said here that the Socialist Party was responsible for tax workers. I regret to disappoint you, but this is your specialty, they did so repeatedly: whenever they needed to rule out political responsibilities, they said that it was the fault of the services. We do not do that, nor will we do that, you can be absolutely sure, Mr! The honourable Member also said that we should welcome the government. Mr President, I do not know if you have noticed, but your electoral narrative has been successively denied since the end of the elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The economy was on the rise and in very high acceleration, stagnated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u23	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u24	It would be almost a miracle at work... job growth and unemployment fell, the opposite has happened since August. The TAP would be privatized, dishonouring the State of all and any responsibility of a company in enormous difficulties, it came to be known that, after all, the only thing that the State alienated was the positive and possible profits of the company, because the damages paid-CL - all of us, Mr. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I am very sorry to disappoint you, but I am not going to say hello to you or to this government. The honourable Member has come to say that there is good news on tax matters. No, Mr, the only news on tax matters is that this government, the government that ceases to function, which the honourable Member has supported, has made the greatest tax increase ever. And when he was unable to reduce these taxes, he created this over-tax ambush, in which he turned a promise to end the over-tax in a year, a kind of trust contract, which now the only confidence that people can have is that it will not be fulfilled, Mr. To finish, I'll talk only about the IRS. The honourable Member has boasted of the family coefficient and said that the Portuguese pay less taxes. I should have said something else, more correct, which is: Portuguese people with more incomes pay as much tax as they have more incomes, Mr President! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] The Socialist Party's proposal, with the support of the parliamentary left, that we will implement, is, yes, the end of the family coefficient, but not to raise taxes to businesses, is to do one thing, that you have some difficulty in understanding, which is the following: we want to recognize the size of families and dependents, but we want to do it in an equal way, ensuring that you want a child from one poor or a child from one rich are exactly the same. Unfortunately, this was not your option and it is this mistake that we will correct, without any increase in taxes, but only with a fairer distribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u25	Mr. Duarte Pacheco, I can only say here one thing, after all, that is more personal...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u26	It can and must!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u27	... but which I consider important for the role which he has played here over so many years: Mr Duarte Pacheco has been 30 more 20 years today. Congratulations, Mr. Duarte Pacheco! [[General applause.]] To request clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u28	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I would like to congratulate you on bringing the issue of the return of the over-tax to political declarations. As you know, from the very first moment that we have denounced the return of the overtax as being an ambush, set up in the year of elections intended once again to deceive the Portuguese, to hunt him down his vows with false promises. According to the measure of the refund of overtaxes there would be such a refund only if the combined tax revenue of IRS and VAT exceeded a certain value: more than EUR 950 million than in the previous year. In other words, the Portuguese would have to pay more taxes if they were to be entitled to a refund of part of the surcharge. A concrete example is that in order to have the refund in 2016 of EUR 50 million of the surcharge, they would have to pay in 2015 more EUR 1000 million in VAT and IRS than they paid in 2014. In other words, there is no return, which is a rise in taxes, and this is an element of this government fraud. But there is another element that emerged during the election campaign and in the pre-election campaign: the government intensified its mistifying action, designed to create the idea, from the public opinion, from the taxpayers, to create the perception that there would be a refund of the surcharge, a refund of taxes. And he resorted to all the files, such as ignoring, for example, the decrease in the last VAT refunds, hiding that, if there were no obstacles to these VAT returns,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles and PSD Members.]] ...the tax revenue would be insufficient for any refund, every month of the year. It brought together all of this the discourse of the improvement of the economy, the discourse that the worst has already passed, the discourse that the sacrifices were worth, trying to create here a mistifying idea, a real ambush around the supertax, intended to deceive the Portuguese before the elections, to hunt them down their vote. This is no surprise to us, because the PSD and the CDS, in the 2011 legislative elections, did exactly the same: before the elections, they said something, then, when they got caught in the government, they did exactly the opposite. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u29	Oh, my lord! Look what the future holds for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u30	But to carry out this lie about the return of the overtax...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u31	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u32	I shall conclude by saying that the Government has not hesitated to sacrifice micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, imposing severe restrictions on them, new rules for the return of VAT, creating serious cash problems. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] What I am asking, Mr President, is how does it assess these restrictions imposed on micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that the government could try to give greater credibility to their overtax fraud? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u33	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u34	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, we spent the morning, more or less all, discussing this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u35	Everyone, no! Some!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u36	... at least some of us, who were in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, but I still can't help asking a question on a subject that I have not dealt with in your speech. [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] Mr. Deputies said that the State Secretaries were discussing the overtax. It is true, but it is only half-true, because, in fact, what we have been discussing was also, and above all, the implementation of the budget. I see that you have forgotten to mention, for example, that there has been a very significant improvement in the balance of public administrations in more than EUR 1200 million and that, as has been said to us several times and by no one who has been denied, the conditions are met — and we are only one month and five days from the end of 2015 — so that in 2015 Portugal can have a deficit below 3% and finally leave the excessive deficit procedure. Mr President, I saw that Mr Duarte Pacheco was concerned and I already realized that he does not want to welcome the attitude of the Government or the way in which public finances have been conducted, that he does not even want to recognise, but, Mr Pacheco, I do not ask you to do this, I ask only one thing from the Socialist Party, that they do not spoil! Please don't mess up! We are, one month and five days from the excessive deficit procedure, and this, yes, has a fundamental impact of many Portuguese. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just not to ruin! Secondly, because, curiously, in the Commission, we were discussing methodologies and, now, we are discussing manipulation again, I must say that the honourable Member has developed a theory that is truly bizarre, which was to say: "The government has made electoralism! The government said that in 2016, it was going to return a part of the surcharge. And how did you do that? It increased the retentions in the source and thus infused the recipe for IRS! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So the honourable Member says that because of electoralism, the government paid more to the Portuguese this year to give them back more at the end of the elections? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u37	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u38	Mr President, that would not be electoralism, it would be an insanity! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u39	That doesn't have feet, it doesn't have heads! If the government wanted to make electoralism, it would charge less this year, leave people with more money, then increase taxes next year. It's exactly the opposite! Finally, and thanking the tolerance of Mr President, I wonder whether, by any chance, you will have heard that there is no change in reimbursements and that everything that is going on in the overtax... [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] There is no change, with regard to the past two months, Mr President! [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] If you stop screaming and listening to the end, you realize the thread of the intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u40	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u41	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that there is no change in reimbursements in the last three or four months. The amendments which explain what happened in the supertaxe have nothing to do with reimbursements, as is easily evident by the figures. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u42	To reply, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u43	Mr President, I thank the questions raised and begin by answering Mr Paulo Sá. In fact, the rules introduced already after the Budget approved by the Office of the Secretary of State and then on 26 December, the target of a rectification order which included more conditions, if I am not mistaken, are not a measure to combat fraud and tax evasion, because a measure to combat fraud and tax evasion has to be able to distinguish taxpayers who commit fraud and try not to pay taxpayers' taxes that either by lapse in declarations or by cents or even by reason of problems that are not their responsibility but, yes, a third taxpayer, such as a seller, have failed to comply with. And the problem of these rules is exactly this: it is a proof of obstacles that treats non-compliant and met in the same way. Therefore, in fact, we cannot say that the reduction of reimbursements, compared to last year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u44	But I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u45	... which today is EUR 200 million, resulting from the fight against tax fraud and avoidance, because the only thing many of these entrepreneurs are going to see is more time in the return of their money. It's a right of these taxpayers. So we are not faced with an improvement in efficiency here, we are even seeing a number of obstacles and a huge bureaucratic burden which, above all, harm small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs Cecilia Meireles used the word 'insanity', the words are hers not mine, but I agree, because, in fact, there are several examples over these four years. Therefore, it did well to use this adjective,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u46	It's not an adjective, it's a noun!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u47	... which seems to me, in fact, to attach that not a glove in the practice of this government in several matters. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member, subtly, came to say that most likely this government will not meet the goal it has set, and the target it has set was 2.7 %. We'll see if it meets the 3 % target, or not. I can tell you that the Socialist Party sincerely hopes that this goal will be met, because it would be better for the country. We will see whether this happens or not, but if it does not happen, it will certainly not be because of us and it will certainly not be for one month of the next government that the budget implementation will change. [[So, it's very easy!]] [[So, it's very easy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u48	Therefore, Mrs. Member may be resting because in one month the Socialist Party will not do anything that spoils what you have done this year, but everything indicates that they will fail the goal that you yourself have set. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] More: and I will not ask you questions now, because the question was asked to me, if I could, one day with time and another intervention, explain why the Minister of Finance, on 25 September, at one week of the elections, say that the data he had shown that the economy was accelerating, when, now, what we saw is that, on the 3rd. the quarter of 2015, i.e. months before the elections, the Portuguese economy stagnated. If you have the opportunity to explain this matter, the Socialist Party and I would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u49	For a political statement, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday placed a final point in the period which will remain for Portuguese history as « the 50-day beer ». For almost two months, Cavaco Silva forgot the calls for stability, ignored the majority existing in this Parliament, left a country in suspense and waited. He waited for a political crisis that never came. You've been waiting for a storm that the financial markets are baffling. He wished for any fatality that would free him from fulfilling his constitutional obligation, but that day never arrived. Truth be told that in the time given by Cavaco Silva, there were those who tried to alarm the chaos. The right, inconsistent with the formation of a majority in Parliament, began by invoking its natural right to send to Portugal, then did « complaints » to Brussels and, when finally realized that everything was lost, accelerated the sale of TAP. In short, the right began to name the tradition, then came to invoke economic stability and finally dealt with the'sight' which is what really matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The President of the Republic was faster to hear half a dozen bankers than to understand the sense of the electoral will of 5 million Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u51	I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who see bankers profiled in Belém, with a sudden air to demand stability and trust, are only credible to those who do not remember what their banks have done to our public accounts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u52	In fact, Portugal knows that if the matter is a matter of confidence and responsibility, these gentlemen are to avoid at all costs. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The President of the Republic had resisted the bad habit of only listening to the different personalities who think exactly as he did, perhaps had yielded earlier to the evidence: the elections determined a Parliament where there is a majority that enables a government. The indication of a Government with majority support is, as always, the only possible and acceptable solution. The proof of this is that even Cavaco Silva was forced to accept it. I don't know if this was the celebration that the right had in mind for November 25, but for the Left Block, the passage of this first day on the capitulation of Cavaco Silva is certainly a great reason to commemorate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That PSD and CDS now cry out to heaven for the legitimacy of the solution found is no wonder. That they promise to vote against everything is proof that the generals' awareness is worse than the hunger of the troops. Four years of dream on the right, a government, a majority, a president, made this right believe it was invincible, and cannot understand what the people told him. however, I must say, they will have time to comply with this new reality: they have lost the majority of parliament and the President has not enough to keep them from losing the government as well. Now, while in this period Cavaco Silva staged the political novel of the year, the country did not stop. New decisions have been taken and new developments have added to the political debate, and two are worth mentioning. First of all, the country was finally aware of the value of the refund of the overtax announced this month, in accordance with the latest budget implementation data. This refund, or tax credit, will be a round number: zero cents! It is time to ask Members and Ministers of the PSD and the CDS if they are surprised at this result. Of course they're not. UTAO announced this result in August and it is no secret to anyone that tax revenues vary from month to month, depending on reimbursements, tax rules and many other economic factors. During the election campaign, it was the Prime Minister who said, and I quote: "If tax revenue, in VAT and in IRS, stays above what we plan, then everything that comes the most will be returned to the taxpayers".
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u53	And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u54	So far everything is fine, but the Prime Minister added: « And today we know that we are in a position to meet this budget rule in 2016 and that they will receive an important part of this overtax ». This said the Prime Minister in election campaign before October.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u55	We're not done!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u56	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what name is given to the deliberate creation of expectations in the electorate, which one knows, from the outset, that will not be met? It's called democratic fraud, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is called electoral manipulation, and that is what the right has done in the last elections with the return of the overtax. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]] Second fact of these weeks: the sale of TAP. The sale of TAP, a secured business in favour of a consortium that has already begun this week to liquidate the assets in order to be owned by the company. This after the Council of Ministers ensures the same private consortium that, if things go wrong, the State will pay the more than 700 million euros of the company's debts to the bank, alleviating this boredom, of course, the new shareholders of the company. Worse still, the buyer company is illegal and signs the contract without changing its statutes, as imposed by the national regulator. Illegal consortium, Ministère trabiliário, accounts furadas, is this portrait of a government that comes out of the scene with electoral fraud and an obscure business done in 25. the time of the management period. We will not miss your power, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS. The Left Block is here to respond to the most important burden of this majority. contrary to the policy of fraud, we have fulfilled our commitments. unlike the colossal ambush that was austerity, we want the recovery of the economy for employment. We will fulfill our commitments with the workers and pensioners to recover what is theirs and has been withdrawn from them. We will fulfill our commitment to increasing the minimum wage and workers to false green receipts. We will fulfill our commitments to the taxpayers so that they are protected by the truth of their accounts. We will fulfill the commitments with those who voted...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u57	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u58	I shall conclude by saying that we will fulfil our commitment to all those who voted to remove the "sold" card which the right has posted in the country. This is the criterion of the Left Block and it is the only policy that moves us. To advance every day in the recovery of income and thus show that democracy is the responsibility for those who live and for those who want to live in this country that we do not give up. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u59	Madam Member, I inform you that you have signed up to request clarification from the honourable Members. Deputies Antonio Filipe and Berta Cabral. I ask you, honourable Member, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u60	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u61	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u62	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I begin by congratulating her on her speech, which has indeed drawn attention to the 50 days lost by this country. But I would say, Mrs Deputies, that if we do the right thing, it is a little more because, indeed, it will be two months before the government comes into full office after the evaluation of its Programme by the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u63	The bills are wrong! They must be accounts « to Dr. Mário Centeno ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u64	So only about two months after the elections are we going to have a full government, and this is because the President of the Republic had the scenarios all studied on the day of the elections. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] We can ask ourselves what would happen, how long would the country have to wait to have a full government if Mr President did not, in fact, have the scenarios as well studied as he did.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u65	What if they didn't lead the government? Come on! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u66	Great, too, is that, having the scenarios all studied, he opted for a virtual scenario, which was the appointment as Prime Minister of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, which made the country lose all this time. But what is also true is that these two months have served for this government, which has now ceased functions, late and late, in particular, to be able to carry out the business of the sale of TAP, clearly exorbiting from our point of view those which are the functions permitted to a management government, which must be limited to urgent acts strictly necessary for the conduct of public affairs, and it is absolutely prohibited the practice of high-administration acts, as is clearly the case of the sale to the private of the national flag airline, as is the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u68	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u69	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I would like to hear the honourable Member on this issue and also on one last question which is to be considered to be in accordance with our constitutional system that the President of the Republic still allows himself to establish requirements, unilaterally dictate requirements, for a government resulting from the popular will and which only answers constitutionally before the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u70	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u71	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, your statement deserves some consideration and two requests for clarification. The first of these considerations is that we do not see ourselves in the manner in which Mr President of the Republic is addressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u73	We repudiate the language used, by whoever it is, to address the highest judge of the nation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u74	All right! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u75	The second consideration is that although they insist on a negative majority in this Parliament, the PSD and the CDS-PP, the coalition, have won the elections. This is an irrefutable truth that we must reaffirm in this House before all Portuguese, because it is a question of justice and a question of respect for the majority will of those who elected us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u77	As much as they want to clear up this whole process that has led to the government's indigitation that tomorrow takes possession, the truth is that for us and for most Portuguese people, this is an illegitimate government, whether they want it or not, and ethically reprobable.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u79	This is an undeniable truth that has called into question 40 years of constitutional practices, which, at one time or another, have been furnished with our political practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u81	That is why I would like to say to you, Mrs Deputies, that from now on we will have a governmental solution that will only replace a minority government that has won by a minority government that has lost. This is the reality of this House from tomorrow! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u83	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u84	Since this is the reality, the first question I want to ask is whether tomorrow, or from next week, Mrs Deputies and the Members. Members of your bench will be power or will be opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u86	Both! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u87	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u88	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, thank you very much for the questions put, because you put your finger on the wound. Mr. President of the Republic made the country wait for almost two months on behalf of an ideological whim. It was an ideological whim of Mr. President of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Let me finish. The proof that it was an ideological whim is that, if Mr. President of the Republic had had had an alternative, he would not have given possession to the government, but he did! He held the government because it was the only alternative he had and knew from the beginning. [[PSD protests.]] Having put conditions on this government, besides having no power to do so, because he is a President of the Republic with diminished powers, as you know, it was a discriminatory position. Let us see : it was enough that the President of the Republic had at the time placed one of the conditions for the Government of Pedro Passos Coelho which placed the Government of António Costa, in particular that of « Can the Government Programme be approved? », and would never have, given possession to Pedro Passos Rabbit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u89	And he placed it! He placed several: NATO...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u90	You put six conditions in it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u91	Pedro Passos Coelho did not meet the conditions imposed by the President of the Republic on António Costa. [[Congratulations from BE.]] And this is what the ideological whims of Mr. President of the Republic reveal. There has often been talk of illegitimate government, of a government supported, although most, which cannot govern, of a coalition that won the elections. I have a question for Mrs Berta Cabral :...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u92	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u93	... the PSD and the CDS-PP, allegedly to such a majority party exiting the elections,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u94	But answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u95	... will you present a motion of rejection to the program that António Costa will present here? They will present a motion of rejection or sit in the opposition position, which are already, I repeat, in the opposition that they are already, because they do not have the majority of votes to present a motion of rejection? It's inconsequential, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as it was inconsequential, at the time when Mr President of the Republic was making the country waste time, the alternatives that he never presented to us. No one has seen a PSD Member or the CDS say here that he wanted a management government, as they now do not say that they will present a motion for rejection. They have no alternatives, they have no solutions. Mrs. Members have no doubt that what unites these benches and what joins this agreement for that government that will have its approved programme, unlike that of Pedro Passos Coelho, is a coalition, a positive agreement around people, the recovery of income, the recovery of wages, the fight against precariousness, the fight against the degradation of pensions, the fight against privatization, the fight against quality of life. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Mrs. Members, there is nothing more positive than finally returning dignity to the Portuguese country and people, and that is, yes, a positive project for the country, unlike impoverishment, which has been what they have brought to the country in the last four years. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u96	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Gather this plenary on the day on which exactly 40 years are spent on 25 November 1975. We are not here today, of course, because of your evocation. The CDS and PSD fought for it, but the CDS was impermissible by the predictable opposition of one and by the surprising ambiguity of others. It is, however, for this evocation and for this commemoration that the CDS is now in this rostrum. We know only one part of the House celebrates the date, another part laments it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u99	The Communist Party is sorry, which is certainly understood, for a story whose evolution had little material and little dialectic. The Left Block is sorry, which is probably understood as an inheritance of the genealogical precedent. But more strange is the position of the Socialist Party, more surprising is the position of those who have never apparently left doubts about the side of the history on which they are located, now appears to us in an inexplicable attitude of abstention, not to say of absolute desertion. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Why did the Socialist Party not help to ensure the holding of an official evocational session of the 40th anniversary of 25 November? Was it for sympathy not to put your new companions on the road in a situation of discomfort? But if so, Mrs. and Mrs. Why, ladies and gentlemen, in the variable geometry that is supposed to support the next government, is it up to the Socialist Party to adapt to the doubts of others?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u101	Will this circumstance be to repeat, repeat and consolidate? In any case, if we are not here today, together and officially celebrating on 25 November, it is still because of him that we are here today, plurally and democratically. I am part of a generation that was not an architect or a witness on this date, but we are of it, as we are of 25 April, irreducible beneficiaries. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And if memory is part of the way, the memory of November 25 is part of our path. It was that day that he avoided a military dictatorship and a civil war. It was that day that allowed freedom acquired on 25 April to be institutionally consolidated into a liberal parliamentary democracy. It was November 25 that guaranteed an institutional democracy in Portugal. Without it we would have had no constitutional governments, we would not have acceded to the European Community and would have been excluded from the Atlantic Alliance. Until it should not be forgotten, on 25 November it was plural, without revenge and ensuring the essential of the political and ideological representation of Portuguese society. in fact, those who wanted to illegalize democratic parties did not end up illegalized themselves. That's the greatest tribute you have left us on November 25.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u103	And this is because, unlike so many caricature interpretations of November 25, this was not done by the civilians against the military or by the right against the left. On November 25, it was done by moderates against radicals, the moderates of all parties against radicals of all parties. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We thank, therefore, here and today, the military who did on 25 November, the commanders and the operatives, all and everyone, but with a natural special reference to then Lieutenant Colonel Ramalho Eanes and then Colonel Jaime Neves. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Memory, as I said, is part of our path and the way we treat History says everything about the way we want to go in the future. And it is a plural, democratic, European and Atlantic Portugal that we want to build in the future and it is for him and for him that we will continue to fight a lot on 25 November. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u104	Two Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Mr Nuno Magalhães has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u105	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this important issue to your political statement. In fact, today, the day we live is a historic day, it is a day that this Assembly of the Republic should have celebrated with condiment, and there have been plans in this direction, but unfortunately, for reasons we all know and we will have to get used to in the coming days, the radical extreme left did not allow the Socialist Party to communicate of the commemoration of this day of freedom and democracy in Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Let us hope that in the next 25 November of the years the extreme radical left will be more pleasing to the Socialist Party or the Socialist Party will know how to keep up with its historical memory, the memory that it has in the construction of democracy in Portugal, so that this date can, in fact, be held here in the Assembly of the Republic, either in other parts of the country, with the dignity it deserves. Mr President, I would like to ask you whether or not this date has an actual significance, whether or not this date makes, even today, 40 years later, the difference between those who are on the side of the defense of freedom and those who have not evolved and who continue to think that November 25 should never have existed. I would also like to ask you if you think that the democratic elections, democracy, the materiality of human rights that are the cornerstone of the democratic regime in which we live would be what they are today if there were no men like Jaime Neves who could prevent Portugal from becoming in Cuba of Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u106	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos César has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the circumstances and as a result of Mr Nuno Magalhães' intervention, it is important to remind me that on 25 November it was a moment, like others, of the correct course of the proceedings initiated on 25 April and of the overcoming of tensions that could devalue, in various ways, the process started on that liberating day. in the balance of the events that took place on that day, in which I was modest but emotionally able to participate, as a young socialist, in a group to whom the artisanal mission was assigned, and suppose that little effective, from the roofs of a building of Rue de S. Pedro de Alcântara, to disrupt military communications, in the balance of these events, we were able to conclude that we deviate from a trajectory that could affect the transition process and that we reunite the whole country, but the whole country. However, the building of Rue de S. Pedro de Alcântara is now a hostel, the protagonists of 25 November are today, unfortunately, either deceased or dispersed by different political and party options, the country has changed deeply and what we remember today, as we could do yesterday or as we can do tomorrow, is our collective membership and our commitment, each in its own way, in the celebration of democracy and in the desire of a more autonomous, less unequal and fairer country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President, you have already concluded your...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u109	I did not finish, Mr President, but I am quick to conclude in view of your signal. Just a country where we want convergence to increase. The PSD and PP wanted to try, on this day, 40 years later, to divide what has already joined, to hurt what has been saved, to revive what has not survived, to disturb what is already acquired. We choose another emphasis and other meaning for today. We celebrate a country, like every day, that reminds us of the 1st. the December one, which they have suffocated, which reminds us on 5 October, which they have suffocated, and which reminds us on 25 April every day. [[P.S. and P.P.P.P.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u110	In reply, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u111	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Mr. Carlos César and Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim asked me the questions and, with the permission of Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim, I will begin by answering Mr. Carlos César. Mr. Member, I can even be more comfortable with the words of you when you reaffirm that the date of November 25 is a structural date...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u112	I didn't say structural!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u113	...and essential for our democracy. I can even, on behalf of this generation, which, as I said, did not participate in it but was obviously beneficial from it, thanking what it described as the modest contribution it has made, I believe that, certainly, by modesty and not by the contribution it has been so modest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u114	No, it was really modest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u115	But to what Mr President did not answer, and which is even contradictory to what he said, it was a very simple question: if so, if the Socialist Party is taxing on that date, if the Socialist Party considers this important date, if the Socialist Party considers that this date was correct in the correct sense of Portugal after 25 April, then why did the Socialist Party capitulate it to the left on the left, recalling it here in the plenary, as it was expected in the Assembly of the Republic, with the plural participation of all?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u116	We don't participate in the political game!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u117	It is that today the PSD and the CDS organized a seminar, in the Land of the Peace, where there were flags of the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS. Today, we have doubts that you remain absolutely firm in that same conviction, so essential for our country. He then spoke of other dates, particularly those on suspended holidays, on 1 December and 5 October. Mr President, in the State no one obviously likes to suspend — and has not been eliminated — it has been suspended — these holidays, but, above all, what cannot happen again is that the State is obliged to do so by a union of creditors, because there was a government of the Socialist Party that led the country to bankruptcy. And that also has to do with November 25. You know why? Because it is to fight for our country, for our democracy and for the vision we have of Portugal. Therefore, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, thanking you for your words, I would like to say that this 'empty chair' policy when we do not agree is all less tax than November 25 and that is what the PAN, the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens did. And more: it represents a disallowation to a decision by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, to the participation of the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic, and it gives rise until, in the future, when we disagree on something, in the House of Democracy, what will we do? Shall we say, shall we fight, shall we debate? No, we're going to desert, we're going to leave, which is what those benches did. Mr President, I share your doubts. Will this capitulation of the Socialist Party to the leftmost parties and the doubts of the leftmost parties be for a question of conviction or occasion? It is that of two, one : or, indeed, the Socialist Party has changed its opinion and is no longer a tribute to a democratic, European and Atlantic State, or is, then, purely for a matter of occasion, and the occasion of a seat of power. Moreover, we see that not all socialists are like that. The President of the Chamber of Lisbon was present today, took part, chaired an evocation ceremony on 25 November. That's the PS we were used to seeing, it's not the PS we've seen, and that's obviously worrying. Speaking in democracy, and being democracy essentially transparency, it is always curious, Mr Deputies, that, before a public communiqué where the President of the Republic expresses public doubts and demands the clarification of these public doubts to the so-called Prime Minister —... [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u118	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u119	... I am really finishing up, Mr President - he maintains the answers he has given to the public doubts of Mr President in private response. It was good that they were asked, because this is transparency and transparency is democracy, and that is why it happened on 25 November. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u120	For a political statement, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS who over four years have had a disastrous policy for the National Health Service and who have taken measures that have weakened the public response and aggravated users' access to health, insist on their dismantling, having taken, in the last days of life of a government in management, without any legitimacy and exorbiting its functions, another set of measures that deepen the path of the decrease in public response of the SNS, transferring it to the private. This is an example of the Council of Ministers resolution on agreements with mercy and the resolution on the emergency network. The Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 92 / 2015 of 12, i.e. two days after its resignation, transfers about EUR 130 million to mercy in the North only, which raises the greatest doubts as to its legality. It was the former PSD Government / CDS that in 2013 it legislates with a view to transferring to the social, cooperative and merciful sector any service of the SNS, whether of primary care, or of hospital care. The order on the emergency network determines the closure of 11 emergency services and the declassification of others, that the examples of the hospitals of Póvoa Varzim, Mirandela and Chaves are paradigmatic. It was the challenge of the populations and the authorities that ultimately forced the government to correct this blow more in the provision of health care. of closed emergency services we highlight the basic emergency service of the health centers of Serpa and Coruche, which will force users to travel about 50 km to Beja and 42 km to Santarém to be assisted in their hospitals, with exorbitant costs. The government in management also leaves open situations without defining the level of urgency, which brings us additional concerns, such as the Montijo Hospital, the Algueirão-Mem Martins Health Center and hospitals transferred to mercy, such as Fafe, PSD and CDS claimed that it would continue to be integrated in the SNS but the truth is that there is no reference to the emergency service it provides within the national network. This measure will further enhance the accessibility of users to health care, forcing them to move further. As the President of the Southern Regional Section of the Order of Doctors said, which we subscribe to and then quote, "When they close open door service, they indicate an economical measure that enhances the quality of care provided". And he further states: « This situation can lead to an increase in demand for multi-purpose emergencies and so-called ‘false emergencies’ ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The statements of the leader of the Medical Order remind us of the black days lived by thousands of Portuguese in the emergency services from north to south of the country last winter. If the extinction and declassification of emergency services are realized, in the future we will certainly have more situations like those we witnessed in the past winter. Who does not remember the situation of rupture and chaos with which emergency services have been confronted? Who doesn't remember the patients who died waiting to be cared for? Who doesn't remember the patients hospitalized in the hospital corridors, because there were no beds in the services to welcome them? And with regard to the approaching winter, it is also known that, despite the authorization to hire doctors to fill the emergency scales, hospitals have enormous difficulties in achieving this, given the exact value that is paid to these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These are not just the measures that are weakening the National Health Service and the access of users. In these days, we have been provided with news and reports that account for the difficulties of young doctors in accessing a specialty. We have learned that for the first time in the competition this year, more than one hundred doctors can be left without placement, given the insufficient number of vacancies in relation to the number of inmates who have completed the training of the common year. If this happens for the first time, we will have a set of undifferentiated doctors, which means a disqualification in medical training and the reduction of rights, which will have negative effects on health care provided. This situation has causes and they are rooted in the political options of the PSD/CDS government of social and professional devaluation of health professionals, which has led, in the case of doctors, to extemporaneous exits and concentration and closure of services and valences. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, because of four years of PSD / CDS governance, SNS is confronted with the lack of professionals, very low levels of investment, users' difficulties in accessing health care due to the brutal increase in moderate rates, the drastic reduction in the allocation of non-emergency transport and the closure of proximity services, the concentration and merger of hospital valences. The lack of diphtheria vaccine, tetanus coughing and poliomyelitis in health centers is just another example of the consequences of the uninvestment in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u124	Attention to the time available, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u125	I'm done now, Mr. President. The PSD/CDS Government has emphasized the way of de-responsibility of the State in the provision of health care through the transfer of public sector care to the private sector and by the municipalization of health, questioning the basic principles of the SNS, universal and general, while at the same time challenging the quality of the service and the safety of the users. The PSD/CDS government leaves, contrary to all it has said in these long and black years of governance, the most weakened primary health care. They did not fulfill the promise to assign a family doctor to all Portuguese and the family nurse continues to be a mirage in the overwhelming majority of health centers. The propagated strengthening of primary health care consisted only of the closure of health extensions, services and valences. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Portuguese need is an SNS with motivated professionals, valued socially and professionally, of proximity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u126	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u127	... and equipped with adequate human, technical and financial resources, to achieve concrete objectives of reducing waiting time for consultation, surgery, examinations and treatments, in order to ensure quality health care and in good time. This is what the country needs. That's what we're working for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u128	Mrs Carla Cruz has three requests for clarification. How do you want to respond? [[Pause.]] I have an indication that you will answer together. I now give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Mrs Carla Cruz on bringing this matter to discussion and allowing me to focus, from her speech, a particular case, which is this strange case of a brief Minister of Health who wanted to leave as a legacy of her mandate the extinction of numerous emergency services. Let's go to the facts timeline. on 10 November this year, the PSD and CDS government has been resigned by this Assembly of the Republic, its Programme has been rejected and its competences have therefore been greatly diminished. Nevertheless, on 16 November, the brief Minister of Health of the Coast decides to give up his imagination and to reorganize, it is known why and who's mandate, the emergency services that form part of the national network. last Friday, November 20, is published in Diário da República the office of the government, a government dismissed and in management, where emergencies are disqualified and where numerous other emergency services are extinguished. We can talk about Barcelos, Idanha-a-Nova, Coruche, Agualva-Cacem, Loures, Serpa, but there are more that, in this mysterious office, put to the top last Friday, suddenly disappeared. We know, as everybody knows, that the PSD/CDS government has had a project for the last four years for health. It was a project that went through uninvestment and closure in the public sector and then transferred and secured markets to the private sector. We know that PSD and CDS wanted to continue this project, but we also know that the PSD and CDS project ended on November 10, when their government was resigned to the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, the question that I leave to Mrs Carla Cruz is considered, as the Left Block considers, that the path cannot continue to be the de-investment and closure of public health services; it is considered, as the Left Block considers, that the government's office is illegitimate and has no political validity, because it is a resigned government, having completely extravagant its functions;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u131	... and it is considered, as the Left Block considers, that it is necessary to block the entry into force of this order, placed at the top, already in the end of life of a dying government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u132	Mr Miguel Santos, from the PSD, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u133	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, with all honesty, I was not surprised at your intervention. In fact, it is just as much speech as the honourable Member and her fellow Members have done here. And it wasn't just in the last four years, because this is the same dogmatic speech they've been doing for decades. Now, I will be more interested, no doubt, in seeing the future interventions that you will make here, especially with the attention of the government that tomorrow takes possession of and the support your bank has given for the constitution of that government. The honourable Member has referred to a number of matters that we have discussed in recent years. With regard to the issue of moderate rates, Mrs Deputies, it is worth telling you that we have 6, 5 million Portuguese exempt from moderate rates, 70 % of Portuguese do not pay any health services. The honourable Member mentioned the de-investment when we had budgets for health with a consecutively strengthened and larger investment. As for the « deinvestment», there were 26 new health centres that were built and opened during the past legislation, and hospitals, which were easy to remember. But I believe that, in your case, Mrs Deputy, referring to these aspects may not be a waste of time, of course, but will have no effect, much less in the amendment of your speech. Now, the speeches that you will make here, in the coming days, will be a lot of attention on our part. The honourable Member has chosen to refer to an office which the Minister of Health has published last Friday, an office which he has made in the scope and in the performance of his duties, in full compliance with his duties and until the end of them. However, the order is an order which implements the report which the Commission for the Re-evaluation of the National Emergency Network ( CRRNEU) has already issued and that the honourable Member will certainly know. But the PCP could be right, could be. Now we need to see in particular the issues and details that are mentioned in the office. In fact, when Mrs. Deputy referred to the cases, in particular the Hospital de São José — Fafe, the Hospital Conde de São Bento, or the Hospital de Santo Tirso, as you know, these were returned to the mercy...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u134	Yeah, they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u135	...and, therefore, the services are within the framework agreement which was concluded with mercy. When the honourable Member refers to the rectification of the order published on Friday, I order that which was the target, according to the honourable Member, if I am not mistaken, and that is why there was the rectification,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u137	...I have to tell you, Mrs. Member, that the correction was made on the very day.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u138	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u139	I conclude now, Mr President. As Mr President-in-Office said on the same day, he published a note, saying that he was going to make this rectification, which was published on Monday, in the Journal of the Republic. To conclude, on the issue of the Hospital de Amarante, for example, which goes from SUB2 to SUB ( Basic Emergency Service), Mrs. Deputy is aware that this classification comes from the Order No 5414 / 2008, which is from the authorship of the former Minister of Health Correia de Campos? Therefore, declassification was dependent on integration into their hospital center, which is the hospital center led by Penafiel and that is why it happened. Therefore, Madam Member, we will be paying attention to your interventions in the coming years and the Member must pay attention to the PS bench, in particular to the intervention she will have in the field of health, because if she is equal to what she had in the years in which she was in the government, she is even concerned. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u140	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u141	Mr President, I would like to begin by complimenting Mrs Carla Cruz and the Portuguese Communist Party bench for bringing health policy issues to discussion today. in fact, on this last day in office of a right-wing government, it is good to remember here the marks left by the last two governments — the previous four years, and this one, of a few days, which have always had the same agenda and were always in the same direction: to devalue public service and to value the private. As for the insensitivity characteristic of Dr. Leal da Costa, we all have, I think, a statement by him, as Secretary of State, when he saw the report of his visit to the emergencies, in which people were accumulated in difficult situations, and said that what he saw was very well installed people. And now, in the position of Minister, Dr. Leal da Costa did not resist, although in the short days when he performed functions, to weaken the National Health Service again, and did so in an order in which he did not respect the guidelines of the Commission itself for the Re-evaluation of the National Emergency and Emergency Network. Mr Miguel Santos mentioned here the existence of a study carried out by this Commission, but he forgot to say that what is contained in last week's office generates larger cuts than those suggested by the Commission and there are services in areas of the country that are much more unprotected. Mr. Miguel Santos, I would like to quote here statements by an author of the PSD, Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Póvoa do Varzim, Dr. Aires Pereira, who commented on the government’s office saying that these are complex affirmations that move Dr. Leal da Costa and that this only justifies that, within few days of leaving the position, he would like to leave his left mark in the organisation of the SNS. In fact, these are the marks that VV. Ex. Let's leave. But we will strive-CL to, with the support of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, with this new organization that we have in Portuguese democracy, value the National Health Service, so that there is no service for the rich and a service for the poor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u143	That is what you have tried to do in these last two governments, and that is what we will prevent in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u144	In reply, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u145	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions you asked me. I begin by replying to Mr Miguel Santos of the PSD. Mr President, it seems that you have not yet grasped the reality. However, his intervention seems to want to spread all the consequences and all the evils that the four-year policy of the PSD/CDS-PP government has had in the National Health Service. But it was your policy, the policy of the PSD government / CDS-PP, which was defeated with the struggle of the workers and the people and in the polls, which led to the resignation of the PSD / CDS-PP government on November 10.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u147	But what is of concern, in fact, is that the intervention by Mr Santos — like what he has already done throughout the previous legislature, when he spoke of the National Health Service and the consequences of health policy for the users and for the Portuguese — completely devalues the serious and disastrous consequences with which PSD and CDS-PP have provided the Portuguese with regard to health. In his speech he spread the lack of professionals, of all professionals, spread the lack of investment. And with regard to the office, Mr President, what happens is that it was not only those services that were disqualified, that of Barcelos and many others were, because the emergency service that they had was a medical-surgical emergency service and now they have a basic emergency service, only basic, which will force these users to move further. On the question of mercy, Mr Deputies, what the resigned Government of the PSD / CDS-PP has always said was that their services were integrated into the SNS. But today what the office demonstrates is that they are not integrated into the SNS, they do not even belong to the emergency network. But the possibility that was opened up with the new correlation of forces here, in the Assembly of the Republic, is to block these processes. It is necessary and urgent that these measures, which should never have been taken by a government without legitimacy, should be stopped, not implemented, in order to avoid the disastrous consequences that would have for the populations and for the emergency services of the different hospitals. What really matters — and that is the commitment which the CFP Parliamentary Group here today says, as it has always said — is the commitment to work on strengthening the SNS, to give it material and human conditions and also investment, so that the public response is a quality response, so that this process of destruction of public response in favour of the private service is stopped, in favour of the transfer of emergency services to hospitals. That, as we said, is our commitment. That's what we're going to do. That is what we are going to work on, towards strengthening the SNS and public response. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u148	Mr Manuel Frexes has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If on 25 April 1974 was the founding day of free democratic Portugal, on 25 November 1975 it was the day that confirmed the freedom and democracy that this April brought us. To evoke here the 40 years of November 25 can never be considered a Saudi exercise, nor can it be so relegated to the field of minor ephemerides. Whoever fought for democracy, who loves democracy has the duty of memory and has the right to memory. It is this duty and this right we exercise here today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u150	The days and months following 25 April 1974 were marked by the various forces and views so often divergent that each one defended for Portuguese society. on the one hand, the project of a society of Soviet model, totalitarian and centralizing, characterized by the so-called left forces, whose echoes, anachronically, still reach until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u151	Shoot! That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u152	on the other hand, a world based on social-democracy, individual freedoms, openness to the world, from a whole place in a Europe from which, until then, we had been furnished. in this row, there was the then Democratic People's Party, today the Social Democratic Party, as well as the Socialist Party and the CDS. And in this history of the consolidation of free and democratic Portugal, an outstanding date, and this date is November 25, 1975. That day marked a turning point — and a turning point in the right direction, I will say — in what could have been a revolutionary drift that would have removed Portugal from the values of freedom, democracy and Europe. on that day and in the following, the Portuguese said that they wanted to follow, and this path was definitely not the path of totalitarianism, radicalism, the suppression of the individual in the name of an all-powerful state. on November 25, the April values that some wanted to defend their own values and principles were redeemed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u154	This was the choice of the Portuguese people, who unequivocally supported the protagonists of that day. Courageous protagonists who, without naming any but remembering all, here we mark, here we rise and here we thank. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 25 November 1975, we are reminded that nothing can be given as a purchase. It is that, even those values that we judge as fundamental and non-negotiable of our democratic regime and which should guide, without exceptions and without subterfuges, a mature and full democratic coexistence, are still tested today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u156	in the last four years, you've seen yourself well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u157	To overthrow, at birth, a legitimate government out of the express will of the voters and to force the formation of another — even if of a government of appeal and with a term of dangerously indefinite validity — is one of the most serious democratic subversions to which the Portuguese are witnessing, in a mixture of disbelief, fear and perplexity. Sadly, during the election campaign, Dr. António Costa did not expose the Portuguese to their true intentions. It is regrettable that in the 90 pages of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, there is no reference, once — I repeat, only once! — to this magical and allusive word of such a ambition of power. What is that word? Ladies and gentlemen? That word, completely absent from the Socialist Party's program, is — they're freaking out! — the word « left», « left coalition ». That's exactly how it is. Look for the word 'left' in the Socialist Party programme and they won't find it. Not once! And since I speak in electoral programmes, I do not cease to be revealing that, at all times that the Communist Party and the Left Block refer to the PS in their respective programmes, they do - by calling it - invariably "right party". But, however, this sudden and surprising fall into each other's arms has already begun to make its way, starting right here, the House of Democracy, and not by chance, but precisely about the date and the efemeric we evoke here today. I remember the ladies. Members that the Social Democratic Party and the CDS-PP have taken the initiative to present to the President of the Assembly of the Republic at the Conference of Leaders a proposal for a commemorative event marking the 40th anniversary of 25 November. Signing with dignity on 25 November does not mean, for us, pump or circumstance; it means, yes, collectively remembering a remarkable moment in our democratic history, giving it the necessary reach and a pedagogical understanding that these ephemeris should always contribute to the younger generations. It means reflecting and extracting teachings. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In the light of the proposal of the PSD and the CDS-PP, the President of the Assembly of the Republic has decided to set up a working group, chaired by Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic of Dr. Jorge Lacão, and with representatives of all the parties seated in this House, to decide on the conduct of this event and the forms in which it would take place. What has been followed, as is the public domain, does not honor some representatives of this House. in an acute democratic and institutional disrespect, the parties of the new left-wing front simply decided not to appear in this working group, even disrespecting the decision of the President of the Assembly of the Republic they themselves elected. If it is true that the anti-democratic attitude of the PCP and the Left Block has not surprised us, already the position of the new Socialist Party, in such an indisputable matter as this, is indicative of a serious deviation from its democratic matrix that can only leave us concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u158	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u159	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that politics, like everything else in life, is made of choices. 40 years ago, the Portuguese chose the path of democracy, the way of Europe, the path of freedom, started a year earlier on 25 April 1974. To preserve the memory of November 25 is also to preserve our choices, the choices that the Portuguese people decide to make at every moment. It is to preserve respect for the decisions of the people. And what the people never decided, but never, could be a choice of the people. I would like to end with the following citation: « The great problem of our democratic system is that it allows us to do nothing democratically». These are words of the unsuspecting José Saramago, who I subscribe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u160	Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification, and the Bureau was informed that Mr Manuel Frexes wanted to answer together. First of all, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u161	Mr President, I want to start by saying hello to you for the first time in this quality. Mr. Manuel Frexes, finished with a quote and I will also start my question with a citation that is particularly relevant for today, with the authority that we all recognize to General Ramalho Eanes, which stressed, and correctly, that the fracturing moments are not celebrated, remember. They are reminded to reflect, in order to distance ourselves from us, to study them and understand them, to respect the agents who, in the days we have noted, had a role, but never to reopen wounds that are healed, never to serve punctual agendas, as so eloquently did Mr. I think that historical memory and appreciation should deserve more than what was offered to us recently in its intervention. Regardless of where people were on November 25, 1975, on these days we can also remember the wise words of another figure that, also by their authority and memory, should inspire us. I remember Melo Antunes on this particular day, and I remember the idea conveyed at the end of this journey: to ensure that all parties, without exception, were indispensable to democracy. We are all indispensable to celebrate the values of democracy. For this reason, any approach that seeks to narrowly entwine and revive strictly manipulative historical facts should not merit the acceptance of the true commemoration, which must be the one that marks our democracy: on 25 April — « The first day, whole and clean». [[P.S.'s applause.]] He also made references to the question of legitimacy, reiterating the view that this Parliament, when considering a motion for rejection of the Government Programme, would appear to have carried out an illegitimate act. As if this regiment and constitutional figure of rejection of the Government's Programme seems to serve only for a notarial stamp! As if there was no substance associated with this vote! And as if the Members, when they vote on rejection of a government programme, were not exactly carrying out their mandate. And by whom? Let me say: for the people, for the sovereign people, for the elective citizens who elect Members with a mandate, which was to allow me to contradict it very clearly stated at all times of the election campaign, and even before that, that it was the mandate to remove the previous government, change austerity policies and replace it with a solution capable of turning the page, return income to people and safeguard the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u163	That is precisely what — and I conclude, Mr President — I ask you: then most of the Members elected by the people are not a democratic expression of popular will in a parliamentary democracy? Oh, my God! Where, then, are the values that I wanted to exalt when I spoke on November 25 or April 25? Is it not respect for the popular will that must be in the front line of any parliamentary debate when a Parliament does what parliaments do since they exist, i.e. control of government activity, overthrow governments when they cease to function and when there is a majority in the opposite direction and put into operation stable and capable solutions to ensure the quality of life of people? Oh, my God! That is what has been done and that is what will continue to be done during this legislature! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u164	Thank you for your compliments, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves. Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u165	Mr President, I would also like to congratulate you. Mr. Manuel Frexes, I would like to congratulate you and tell you that I am doing it because I am essentially a restraint and your intervention is once again reaffirming the victory of moderation against radicalism. I believe that a normal Parliament always celebrates the victory of any moderate act against a radical act. I must therefore say that on 25 November it is also, as has already been said, something that is comforting, which strengthens on 25 April and brings to Parliament real democracy, parliamentary and liberal democracy. We would not have lived in times of any threat of radicalization—and I am being very benevolent with this statement—and if there was still a tip of moderation in the Socialist Party, because the acts of moderation should be celebrated, we would see the Socialist Party grasping with both hands the proposal for a commemoration of 25 November by this majority. Why? Because it was November 25 that allowed the country to achieve a set of economic and social victories that brought us to Europe and to civilized nations. And we knew who was on that side. On the one hand was the Portuguese Communist Party, the radicals, where they stand and which reinforce in each proposal this same position. There was not yet the Left Block, which has a kind of government proposal I would say a lot to the Popota style, full of gifts and magic, but from where nothing comes. However, from the Socialist Party we expected much more. And it is the Socialist Party that strangely denies its history, that denies all its past of fighting radicalism, that denies all the acquis that has been useful to the country and that is also useful to the Socialist Party, radicalizing and choosing the path of the radical left. Mr President, my question is very simple: what does the country gain from this radicalism? What does the country win with a government that, as you said, is illegitimate? Because it is the first time that the Socialist Party forms a government losing the elections! There is no doubt that we have won the elections! Therefore, he called on the Socialist Party, at least its moderate part, to say that for the first time, by losing the elections, he wanted to win in the secretary, he wanted, politically illegitimately, to be government. This radicalization does not bring anything good. Question: What can we expect from this radicalization? Is it or not an attack on 25 April, an attack on 25 November and an attack on the effort that all Portuguese parties have made for the country today to be on the ground where it is, which well compares with any other country, being a victory of moderation rather than radicalism? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u166	To reply, Mr Manuel Frexes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u167	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mr Hélder Amaral. Mr Hélder Amaral, most of the recitals he presented will help respond to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, initially when he began his intervention - and it was with pity that I later found that he had a drift - I thought he was going to blame the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party was one of the parties of the moderate arc that helped to do on November 25 and to put the country in the right direction, achieving a blow that would lead Portugal to a revolutionary and totalitarian drift, and its founder, Mário Soares, was part of the group of people who helped to put Portugal in the right direction. We cannot erase the memory nor should we forget the memory and, for the first time in our history, in the history of this House of Democracy, the Socialist Party does not invoke one of the most decisive and important moments of democracy in Portugal. There is no doubt, Mr President: if it had not happened on 25 November, perhaps this Parliament would not have worked as it has worked here today and if we had not built a democracy over 40 years, based on rules and traditions that we have respected throughout our lives. Whenever the Socialist Party won the elections, even if with a minority, it counted on our support, in some way or another. In fact, I remember that, for example, in the minority government, between 1995 and 2002, being Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa president of our party, we always let the state budgets pass, we never did what is happening now, which is incomprehensible and unacceptable. A party that lost the elections has no legitimacy. however, it invented a left-wing coalition that supposedly replaces a legitimate government that has been overthrown. This is the real question. And this is the issue that bothers you so much. Mr President, I believe that mixing important national events in our history and forgetting them only because, at this moment, tactically, we live at a time when they cannot offend — the expression passes — your partners in this coalition think it is very sad, does not value democracy or the history of the Socialist Party. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u168	We will now move on to the second point of our agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 246 / XII ( 2. (a ) — Submitted by José Borges Araújo Moura Soeiro and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to increase the national minimum wage — a question of justice and human rights. Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rise of the national minimum wage is a question of justice in which it is one of the countries with the greatest wage inequalities; it is a question of economic rationality, because the rise of the minimum wage benefits the activity of most micro and small businesses, because they will gain the most from the positive effect of increasing domestic demand; and it is a question of human rights in a country where one in ten workers is poor. That is, one in ten workers earns so little that, even if they have a job, they can't get out of the poverty line. It is unacceptable that the exercise of a profession and access to employment cannot escape poverty and is an offense to the dignity of people. The increase in the minimum wage is therefore an essential tool for combating poverty and the violation of human rights. For all these reasons, the minimum wage is, as it is written in this petition, an essential element and a question of democracy. When this petition was submitted in March 2013 — and I greet the thousands of people who subscribed to it and the entities who associated with it — it warned of a simple fact: that the value of the minimum wage at that time was a condemnation to poverty, was an economic insensity and was a disrespect for the social agreement that had been made in 2006. And former Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho replied, in April of that year, faced with the object of this petition, which he always replied: he criticized the increase in the minimum wage, remembering until Ireland had lowered it. I therefore quote the former Prime Minister: « When a country faces a high level of unemployment, the most sensible measure is to do exactly the opposite, the opposite of raising the minimum wage ». on the eve of the elections there was an update of the minimum wage for the value that was agreed to for 2011, i.e. for three years before, but the right government had an obsession during the four years in which it ruled: reducing the value of work, reducing people's income from the false assumption that competitiveness problems are solved with low wages. Today, when we discuss again the rise of the minimum wage, the same arguments are heard. « It is extremely negative for the economy » or « it is a utopia », some leaders of the employers'confederations say, even knowing that the increase is only 0, 1 % of the total production costs of companies and as if € 530, which is the value currently proposed, is a fortune. They, leaders of the employers' confederations, would obviously be unable to make their lives with €530 per month, as would the Members who have opposed this measure in this Parliament. Fortunately, today the right is not government and is not a majority either in Parliament or in the country. This is the guarantee that today we have a majority for the recovery of income and to increase the minimum wage up to 600 € throughout this legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u170	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u171	I conclude, Mr. President. One third of workers in Portugal will benefit from this increase in the minimum wage. This new majority and new increase in minimum wage means that they earn the poorest workers, who earn the young, who earn the small and medium-sized enterprises, but who also earn the country in respect for themselves and for the dignity of those who work. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u172	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, Mr José Moura Soeiro, who is the first subscriber to this petition, which aims to increase the national minimum wage — a question of justice and human rights. After four years of debate on this subject — often discussed here in this plenary, and also among the social partners — it is good to remember that, as a legal requirement, the minimum wage is fixed by the Government, listening to the Standing Committee on Social Consultation. I also recall that the first time the minimum wage was fixed by agreement with the social partners occurred during a socialist government in 2006 and was signed by all the social partners, employers and trade unions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, nine years after that historic agreement, the Socialist Party, in the agreements established with the left-wing parties of this Chamber for the establishment of a new government, proposes an increase of 5 % in 2016 and 5 % in 2017, placing the minimum wage in 556 €. It is important to state clearly that this matter will always be negotiated in the context of social dialogue, with respect that social dialogue has always deserved us as a strategic partner. To talk about the minimum wage is to talk about the people who live today with 505 € ; to talk about the minimum wage is to talk about the value of work in our country and today the average wage is little more than the national minimum wage; to talk about the minimum wage is, as it is written in the petition, to talk about human rights. I conclude by saying that the Socialist Party and the Government that will start their duties tomorrow will do everything to ensure that a new agreement in social consultation is signed for the increase of the minimum wage, as happened only once in 2006. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u174	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I especially welcome the petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, which aims to increase the national minimum wage. First of all, I wanted to recall that when this petition entered the Assembly of the Republic, the national minimum wage was frozen. In fact, it is the petition itself that states that it was frozen by the Socialist Party following an agreement that it had made with the social partners in 2006. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The petition is very clear when it says that the social agreement has been breached. Mrs Catarina Marcelino told Mrs Marcelino that the Socialist Party respects social consultation, but I ask you: to agree with the partners in order to update the minimum wage in 2011 for 500 € and finally freeze it is to respect social consultation? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I also ask Mrs Catarina Marcelino: have you frozen the national minimum wage and signed the Memorandum of Understanding, which prevents the government from updating, is to respect social consultation? The truth is that this is how the PSD/CDS government found the country and was therefore limited in its actions. It is that the national minimum wage, in addition to frozen, could not be updated — this was, I repeat, the situation that the PSD/CDS government has found. That is why, for three years, the PSD/CDS government worked to end the imminent bankruptcy situation in which the socialist government left us and to get the troika to leave. It made the troika go away, and one of the first measures to be taken by the government was to increase the national minimum wage. They're forgotten, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It was the PSD/CDS government that updated the national minimum wage. Therefore, when this petition entered the Assembly, the minimum wage was frozen by the Socialist Government, supported by the Socialist Party, but it was the PSD / CDS government, supported by the PSD and CDS banks, which updated the national minimum wage. This isn't being serious, like you guys. Ladies and gentlemen just said. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is also important to say, first of all, that it was at the heart of social consultation that the PSD/CDS government reached agreement to update the national minimum wage, thus fulfilling and honouring commitments, as they have always done throughout the previous legislation. Our position has always been to honour the commitments, for the sake of Portugal and for the benefit of the Portuguese. And these matters must be dealt with at the heart of social dialogue. Even to finish, I wanted to say that we will continue to fight for social dialogue, for the importance of social dialogue and for the importance of updating the minimum wage, always in a situation of truth, reality and consistency. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u176	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a good thing to greet the petitioners, but it happens that, in this case, the first subscriber is now Mr José Moura Soeiro, so I do not know whether he treats it as a petitioner-Deputy or a petitioner. I feel this ambivalence in the petition and at the time that you are living.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u179	In fact, it's a bit like the famous sketch of Olivia-Employed and Olivia-Employee. The petitioner-Deputy asks for 600 € minimum wage. Does the petitioner agree with the PS on how much? 556 €? 600 €? When does this agreement come about? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The petitioner-Deputy criticizes the PS for failing to comply with the 2006 agreement made in social consultation in order to increase the minimum wage to 500 €. The petitioner, by the way, looking forward to overthrowing the government elected by the Portuguese, agrees with the same PS that did not fulfill the word he had given. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It was the same PS that frozen the minimum wage and it was the PSD/CDS government that increased it to 505 €, Mr. José Moura Soeiro. I confess I can't understand this ambivalence. What about social consultation? Will it be respected, when they have already announced what is the increase they want to impose? I mean, who changed here? I don't think it was the Block or even the PCP. Who is changing is the Socialist Party. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, we all want better wages. It is obvious that we all want people to gain more, but it is only possible that these wages will increase without jeopardizing the employment and survival of businesses. And the minimum wage, as you know, is very important for the survival of many small and medium-sized enterprises. We say calmly that we must continue to respect the established principle that minimum wage should be discussed in the context of social consultation, where workers are represented but also employers, who pay wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u180	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u181	The PS, by the way, surrendered to radicalism of the extreme left. And as for the minimum wage, it is appropriate to remind the Socialist Party that the word given was not honored. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the thousands of petitioners who have subscribed to this petition, which aims to increase the national minimum wage. Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS, I don't know how to address you: whether as a Christian-democrat concerned about the country's poverty or as a man of the patronage who defends low wages. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u184	I don't know how to address you: whether as a member of a party who, when he took possession in 2011, knew that the minimum wage was frozen but that he did nothing until 2014 and who increased the minimum wage with the ticket given to the employers of the decline of the single social rate for workers or whether as a Christian democrat concerned about the poverty that fats among the 700 000 workers in this country who survive every day with the national minimum wage of €505, which, with discounts, gives €485. [[PSD laughter.]] Imagine, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, what would be living with 485 € per month! Don't imagine why this is a scourge, it's a drama with which 700 000 Portuguese workers live every day, accounting for their lives to know what they are able to pay for, because what they take is insufficient to guarantee dignified living conditions. The national minimum wage is the lowest in the euro area and is a national shame wage. in the last four years, it has increased the number of workers receiving the national minimum wage and, in particular, women. For this reason, the CFP argues that the increase in national minimum wage is a necessity, is a requirement and is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. One third of the people in poverty in our country are workers. They are workers who wake up every morning to go to work and what they receive at the end of the month is insufficient to live in conditions of dignity. We therefore advocate the increase of the national minimum wage as a measure to combat poverty, as a measure to enhance labour and workers and as a measure of economic development. With increased purchasing power it is possible to create more jobs and more jobs need to be created. thus, we believe it is urgent to continue to defend the increase of the national minimum wage up to 600 €. It is a matter of dignity, it is a question of labour rights, it is a question of democracy and it is for this fight that we are here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u185	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the PS, who still has time, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes : of what we all remember and of what the country remembers about the question of the minimum wage is that of Mr. Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, say in that rostrum that the national minimum wage should come down because the conditions of the country did not allow it to increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you may well say that it is not true, because it is recorded what Mr. Prime Minister has said and that the whole country has heard. [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, Mr. Gentlemen, it's not worth using the troika deal to say they couldn't... [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, I wish I could talk...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member is absolutely right. I ask you to continue, and I ask you to do me a favor. Members who are somewhat less calm and to whom I am addressing - I am in favour of creating conditions for Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos to be able to express herself. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u188	I know what I'm saying is difficult. [[PSD protests.]] So much so that the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, for the second time, you don't want to let me talk. But the only thing I am doing in this debate is bringing the facts of recent history and of what has happened in our country. You invoke the Memorandum of Troika so as not to increase the minimum wage more quickly. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u189	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u190	But I ask: how many conditions of the Memorandum of Troika have you renegotiated and why have you not renegotiated this earlier when you had all the social consultation?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u191	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. Now do you come to say that it is so important to listen to social consultation? All the social consultation agreed to increase the minimum wage when the Prime Minister said that the minimum wage had to be dropped. And the government only increased the minimum wage when it had no other way out and the elections were close. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u193	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Magalhães now has the floor. There is little time available, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It does not take much time to restore the truth. I use the word only because this speech by Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has called into question not opinions, not arguments, but facts. First of all, Mrs. Member, it is not true that Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, has said what he said. Secondly, and speaking in a given word, it is true that the Memorandum of Understanding, signed by the PS, when called the troika, provided for the freezing of the rise of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u195	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u196	It is true that this coalition, without memorandum and without troika, has increased the minimum wage and it is true that, by the way, the Left Block and the PCP, or the PS, or the three together will not honor any word they have given, because the climbs are either missing or too much. This is important to be said so that the Portuguese can make the necessary political judgment of who honours the word or who does not have it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u197	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP has the floor, which still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, in order to restore the truth, the CFP intervenes to say that, in the past, as in the present, it defends the increase in the minimum wage. Between 2011 and 2015, the PCP proposed, in this House, the increase of the minimum wage and at all times the PSD and CDS-PP voted against. The CFP assumes its commitment, in the past as at present, from the increase of the minimum wage up to 600 €, because this is a necessity, it is a requirement and it is a right! Here we will see how the PSD and CDS-PP will vote. [[PCP, BE and PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u199	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to the next item on the agenda, which is from the examination of petition No 430 / XII ( 4. a ), — Submitted by Maria do Céu Albuquerque and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures in favour of not disqualification/extinction of the courts of the Middle Tejo. by order of the inscriptions we have in the Bureau, first of all Mr António Gameiro, of the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's petition for discussion in the plenary is originating in Maria do Céu Albuquerque, accompanied by more than 5,000 signatures by taxpayers, citizens, voters in the Santarém district, especially from the NUT III of the Tejo Middle. What happened was that, in fact, the judicial map was very unfair to those populations, creating a situation that was even distorted and which deepened the injustice of this solution with regard to the Tejo Middle and its courts, for example, in comparison with the Faro district. In fact, they are far from the northern parish of the municipality of Mação a Santarém about 100 km. We have, from the parish to the north of the municipality of Ourém to Santarém more than 100 km traveled without highway, without rapid route, with great difficulties for the populations. This petition has, indeed, popular support, comes from the people, who feel this injustice and feel that it needs to be changed. So today, in view of what has been the drafting of the PAF programme, which has been brought to light here in this Parliament, and what is the PS electoral programme, I think there are conditions for the future government to be able to look, in some detail, at the compensation of this injustice by creating what the petitioners require, especially the deconcentration of the Santarém region in two basic territorial competences in the Tejo Middle, a civilian and a criminal. The judge himself, João Pires da Silva, in his opinion to the 1st Commission, agrees with that solution. We hope that the Government that takes possession tomorrow will look at the district of Santarém first and respond to an injustice that the previous government has created, possibly or involuntaryly, perhaps because of someone who, within the PSD Parliamentary Group itself, had a responsibility to draw attention to the problem and did not do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u201	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners and the presidents of the Chamber of the district of Santarém and the Middle Tejo here present: the President of the Chamber of Mação, Ferreira do Zêzere, of Abrantes and of Alcanena. I would like to say that this petition, as we all know, has passed from the previous legislature and defends the non-dequalification and non-extinction of courts in the Tejo Middle. As we all know, the reform of the judicial map aimed, precisely, to reverse a problem for decades of our justice, which was too late, the too slowness of justice in our country. But I must say here today that this petition has produced even effects before entering this Parliament. In fact, it is always good to remember that the Socialist Party gave on a judicial map, because what was envisaged in the previous Socialist Government's proposal was to extinguish 49 courts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u203	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u204	Therefore, it was planned, in the pre-program, to extinguish 49 courts. They saved themselves 29.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u205	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u206	No, that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u207	And 20 were indeed extinct. It is true that, in this case, the government has fallen short of the troika and the Socialist Party. But I remember here today that, like many times the Minister of Justice of the time—and now our colleague, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, said, this reform should be monitored, evaluated and, in the end, it should be subject to correctness and correction. Moreover, the opinion of Mr President of the Comarca de Santarém, as the report of this Parliament rightly points out, emphasises this very matter. But I would also like to remember that what we need to evaluate today is to see if this reform brought more speed to justice, if justice reached people faster and the number of expectations decreased. I must remember that the region of Santarém had a deficit of processes: they arrived more than those that were resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u208	Don't even talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u209	It was a deficit like that of the country in the time of the Socialist Party: always increasing. And, fortunately, it has not yet been one year after this reform is implemented and this trend has already been reversed: the number of processes entered and the number of processes solved has already fallen 6 %, without lowering the number of processes entered. And I stress that it was the beginning of the reform. It is also important here to remember that only at the level of the central instance’s cell section there was a 19 % reduction of expectations!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u210	What about the costs for the people?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u211	at the level of the criminal section, 8, 3 % and at the level of the enforcement section was also reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u212	Attention to your time, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u213	I will now finish, Mr President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this reform has changed decades of practice in justice. The IMF has elected it as the largest reform in justice for the past 100 years and the European Commission has presented this reform of Portugal to its Member States as an example. It is obvious that any reform is not without errors and is not without corrections. And we here, as in others outside, always said that we need to monitor, reassess and make the right choices. This, even because there is already confirmation of the efforts made by Mr. Judge President, with the Authority of Macion and the Order of Advocates, to resume proceedings in the closed Court of Macion. And as it is already being studied, any developments that would be made and that are being negotiated have been announced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u214	Sir, I have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u215	What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, we will be here to correct these mistakes, to improve this reform that no one has ever had the courage, as now, to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u216	The Bureau is also associated with the fulfilment of the Committee's objectives. Presidents of the House of the Medium Tejo present in the galleries. I now give the floor to Mr Matias of the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me, first of all, to give a special compliment to all and to all in my first and very brief speech in this plenary. I also greet the petitioners who address us. In addition to the first petitioner, Dr. Maria do Céu Albuquerque, President of the Municipal Chamber of Abrantes and the Intermunicipal Community of the Tejo Middle, this document is signed by all the presidents of this sub-region. Such a circumstance speaks well of the importance of the matter under consideration. We fully follow the concerns expressed and consider relevant the solutions proposed by the request for adjustment of the judicial map in the district of Santarém. The Court of Justice of Santarém, with the current structure, can even reveal interesting indicators of effectiveness in its internal performance. Among other reasons, this should be the case, as your Judge says, of the high professionalism and the enormous effort of officials, although, as mentioned, human resources and other means of operation are still lacking, shortcomings that will have to be suppressed. But what petitioners well remember is that justice must be close, accessible to citizens and citizens, with their lives and difficulties. In fact, this was underlined today by Dr. Maria José Costeira, President of the Association of Trade Unions of Portuguese Judges. Now, the Tejo Medium is from the peripheries further away from the so-called metropolitan arch of Lisbon. It is a sub-region that has been losing population sharply, where, especially in the most remote municipalities, such as the case of Mação, there is a very aged population and low economic resources. This picture is compounded by the large distances already mentioned here by another Member, between the various population centres and the lack of public transport. We understand, then, why we cannot limit ourselves to the self-satisfaction of internal indicators of the performance of the justice system, but we must look, as the petitioners propose, at their response (or lack of it) to the populations they must serve. The judicial map imposed by the previous government must be reviewed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u218	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u219	I will now finish, Mr President. The reality of the Tejo Medium, brought here today by more than 5000 petitioners, is a thorough demonstration of it itself. More: it is a popular expression to which we have no right to remain indifferent and to which the Left Block will do everything to give political-legislative expression in the new cycle that now begins. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u220	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today in this House a petition submitted by more than 5000 citizens, asking not to disqualify or extinguish the courts of the Tejo Middle, to whom, from now on and from this bench, address a special compliance. Without wheels, even because time does not allow, what we are trying to do for the moment is to judge the goodness of the one who was generally known for the reform carried out by the government that now ceases to function: judicial reform. In summary, the petitioners argue that not only are they not meeting the objective criteria that the Government had set for the reorganization of the judicial map, as there is a need to create two other central bodies in the territory in question: one civil and another criminal. the work and diligence carried out by 1. the Commission highlights an extensive and detailed information by Mr. Juiz-President of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Santarém on the questions raised by the appellants, which is worth reviewing, and what is said there are facts, facts which, by themselves, are objective, contextualized and referred to, described by those who have the constitutional chance of independence and exemption. But let's go to parties, though also very briefly. With regard to the creation of another civil and criminal section in the central instance, the report concludes that there are no elements justifying, from the point of view of the efficiency of the judicial system — that is what matters — the intended decentralisation. I repeat: there is no loss from the point of view of the efficiency of the judicial system with the intended decentralization, adding the signatory who, before the implementation of the reform, understood it relevant, but who after its entry into operation does not see any advantages in such decentralization. As regards the failure to comply with the criteria laid down for the reorganization of the judicial map, it can also be read in the report that, during the eight months of reform — the date on which it was given — there is no record of constraints and that the judgments and hearings have been and will be carried out in local courts, reducing the length of time for users. It is also read that specialization has proved to be a very efficient performance tool, recognized by several professionals. I recall, quickly, two of the main objectives of the reorganization of the judicial map: increasing specialization and bringing closer people closer together. None of these objectives were harmed, on the contrary, by the question: does it make sense to change what is seen as an improvement? No, don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u222	Do it, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u223	It is clear that not everything will be perfect and that not everything will run exactly as expected. Therefore, all changes made are being monitored from the first day. But one thing is certain: several international organizations...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u224	Attention to your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u225	I conclude, Mr. President. You're right and I appreciate your kindness. As I was saying, one thing is certain: several international organizations referred to this reform as a benchmark reform to be followed by other countries. Let's not change what others like us! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude by saying that a reform of this scale takes time to materialize completely and that resistance to change is natural and human. That is why the government that has now ceased its duties has always followed it and has never ruled out the possibility of making the small adjustments that would be considered necessary. That's what we did. The new government takes possession of tomorrow. Let the government know that tomorrow will have the serenity and prudence to do so as well. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u226	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the CFP, to greet the petitioners and autarchs present here confronting this House with an extraordinarily relevant issue that has to do with the consequences that the so-called judicial map has brought to the people's access to justice, to the guarantee of the right to justice. It must be mentioned the disastrous consequences that this judicial map had, in the specific case of this petition, for the populations of the Tejo Middle, but we can say that this judicial map had negative consequences for the entire population, particularly the population living in the regions of the interior, and this petition concerning the Tejo Medium is a very elucidative example of it itself. We are talking about the closure of the Courts of Macion and Ferreira do Zêzere; we are talking about the passage of the Court of Alcanena to the proximity section; we are talking about the loss of judicial valences, particularly in relation to family and minors, in matters of work, which existed in the Court of the Comarca de Abrantes and which were centralized in other courts, in particular with the concentration of judicial valences in district capitals, in the specific case in Santarém. from the point of view of the CFP, and defending legislative initiatives we presented here in the past legislature, we believe that the courts existing in the previous judicial districts should at least maintain a general civil and criminal jurisdiction court, which does not happen with this judicial map. This specialization was also done by means of concentration and it is not by chance that, by means of the judicial map, when it is said that a court was created, for example, of executions at the Enthronement, it is forgotten that the population from Samora Correia has to go to the Enthronement to deal with any execution process.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u228	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u229	Therefore, in the name of specialization, what is here is a concentration of valences in the courts that places populations, particularly those in the interior, more vulnerable, with less access to justice. The burden on access to justice was not enough, the lack of judicial support for populations with lower economic resources was not enough, but the geographical problem now, the problem of accessibility is in relation to the courts, with serious damage to the populations. Mr Duarte Marques said recently that the IMF considered this reform as the reform of the century in judicial matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u230	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u231	I will finish, Mr. President. Maybe they're right. It will have been the greatest judicial retreat of the century, and that is a cause for concern, so we believe that this issue should be revisited and that the negative consequences of this judicial map must be changed in the near future. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-25.u232	Mrs. Members, having no further requests for a word, I declare the debate of the assessment of petition No 430 / XII ( 4. ( a). I would like to draw the House's attention to reading tomorrow's agenda. The session began at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: from point 1, the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 43 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extension of revenue provided for in the 2015 State budget ( PS ), 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the overtax of IRS ( PS ), 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in Public Administration ( PS ), 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ( PS ), 39 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs the mechanisms for temporary remuneration reductions and the conditions for their reversal by making the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2014 of 12 September ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity during 2016 ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 41 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application in 2016 of tax matters contained in the law which approved the State budget for 2015 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The joint assessment of draft resolutions 11 / XIII ( 1 ) is continued in point 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue a comprehensive and integrated administrative modernization policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Innovation in the public sector ( PS ). Finally, the projects of lein.os 6 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed together and generally. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June extending the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques ( PS ), 36 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted drug procreation ( LDCs) and regulates access to replacement pregnancy by making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ), 29 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equal rights in access to assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( PAN) and 51 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the eligibility conditions and the whole of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( The Greens ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all for today. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 38 minutes.]]
