ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 35 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of authority, they can open the galleries. Let's start our work this afternoon. Before that, Mr Duarte Pacheco will do his best to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 1017 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Special Education Legal Regime ( PCP ), 1018 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Protects long-term unemployed persons, facilitates access to unemployment benefit ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1019 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the parish of Casével, in the municipality of Castro Verde, district of Beja ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1020 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Castro Verde parish in the municipality of Castro Verde, Beja District ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1021 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November is made by the application of the payment of moderate rates at the termination of pregnancy, when performed by the woman's option, during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1022/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic, 5. the amendment to the Electoral Review Act and 2. the amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1023 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption of tolls in the ex-SCUT(BE ) and 1024 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish the framework for penalties for crimes against pets ( PS ). Parliamentary assessment No 150 / XII was also admitted ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 101 / 2015 of 4 June laying down the terms and conditions for the allocation of incentives to medical workers in an indefinite employment contract or to be contracted ( CFP ). They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 1554 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government open an investigation to clarify the disappearance of the EMGFA, MDN and MNE archives of the official correspondence between these bodies with reference to the export of war material to Iran ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ), 1555 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the documentary collection of the overseas military defence fund and the creation of the Camarate archive, digitized and made available online on the Parliament's website ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1556 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes the adoption of maximum prices in the marketing of liquid and gaseous fuels ( CFP ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 1557 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by reintroducing rail rights to transport concessions ( CFP ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 1558 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the recommendations and conclusions concerning the airport of Beja exits from the working group set up by the Government for this purpose ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1559 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by the replacement of discounts to pensioners and students in public transport ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1560 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( BE ), 1561/ XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of memory of political persecution in the Port Military Museum ( BE ), 1562 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assume its responsibilities and ensure the management of the social equipment of the Union of the Freguesias de Cedofeita, Santo Ildefonso, Sé, Miragaia, São Nicolau and Vitória, as well as the public linkage of their workers ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1563 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends support to the Government for wine growers and other farmers affected by the fall in hail in the Douro region ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1564 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate deposit and publication of the Collective Agreements for Public Employers ( CFP ), which falls to 5. the Commission shall be aware of 10. the Commission, 1565 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Effective appreciation and recognition of the role of the public higher education network in Portugal ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1566 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — By a public management and at the service of the populations of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( The Greens), 1567 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by not introducing tolls on the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( The Greens ) and 1568/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Defend the construction of the new public central hospital in Évora ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. The draft law no. 26 / XII ( 1 ) also announces the withdrawal by the proposer of Bill No. 26 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish legal offices and strengthen law access mechanisms in international areas ( BE ). Finally, the report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication, approved unanimously, relating to the waiver of the mandate, pursuant to Article 7. the Statute of Members of the European Parliament, by Mrs Cecília Honorio ( BE ), an electoral circle of Faro, being replaced by Mrs Eugénia Taveira, with effect from 1 July 2015, including the temporary impediment of candidates immediately following the list of the Left Block, in particular by João Manuel Duarte Vasconcelos and João Carlos Pereira Peres Brandão, as well as the waiver of the mandate of Mrs Maria Ester Vargas ( PSD ), the electoral circle of Viseu, being replaced by Mr Joaquim Seixas, also with effect from 1 July 2015, inclusive. The Commission's opinion is that the Members concerned should be dismissed and replaced, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The gentlemen. Members can now take their seats in the plenary. Before we begin our work this afternoon, I want to inform you. Members who are in the diplomatic gallery a group of Members of the Parliament of Mozambique, whom we welcome. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let us then start the agenda starting with the current debate required by the CFP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on privatisation policy and the loss of national interest. I would like to congratulate Mrs. and Mrs. State Secretaries, who are already present in the Chamber. To open the debate, I give the floor to the party to the initiative, the CFP, by Mr Bruno Dias. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The privatisation policy carried out by the government and launched by the Troika Party pact means deepening structural dependence and the submission of the economy to the interests of monopolies, to a large extent transnational. It is increasingly the subordination of political power to economic power. The vast majority of the capital of PT, EDP, REN, GALP, BPI, BCP, Brisa, CTT, ANA, CIPOR, is in the hands of foreign interests. Bad business continues for national interests, such as the removal of PPPs, the privatization of TAP and the delivery to the large capital of other public transport companies. The project continues to deliver to the large capital of public companies in the area of the environment, including through the privatization of EGF and the merger of multi-municipal water and sanitation systems and their opening up to private capital. In addition to the serious threats to strategic interest, sovereignty, development and cohesion of the country, privatization has also shown a scandalous dimension of lack of transparency, irregularity, political manipulation, oppression of populations, in which everything is beneficial to business and private interest. The Lisbon Metropolitan has the Reboleira station with 95 % of the work completed since 2011. When, at that time, the government ordered the work to be stopped, we asked whether it was preparing for the postponement of this opening until after the surrender to the privates. They said no. Now, more than three years later, the government announces the « winner » of the sub-concession and the following week announces the completion of the works of the Reboleira station. The opening of this station will bring an estimated demand increase of four million passengers per year. And « by coincidence », this increase in demand is not provided for in the sub-concession contract, i.e. it will allow for an immediate increase in the revenue collected by the private sector and a renegotiation of the amounts to be paid by the public undertaking to the private sub-negotiator. Explain this, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u5	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u6	on the bridge train, the Barraqueiro Group had been demanding for years that the rates of use due to the REFER should not be paid. In 2013, we asked the government, in the face of those « negotiations », whether it intended to continue to drain public resources for that group, or whether it put an end to this ruinous PPP. PPP continued, in fact, like the others, and new PPPs are announced. In the meantime, the government launched a new operation to sell TAP and signed an incredible contract to purchase and sell to deliver the flag airline to private interests. And the Barraqueiro Group, which is the national face of these interests, and which has paid about EUR 6 million in the purchase of the TAP of the 10 million in transaction, now appears to require EUR 6 million in « financial balance» in the PPP of the bridge train! Explain this, Mr. Secretary of State. This is not selling bonded and at the price of the grape, it is offering cake and still paying for who to carry. That's what you're doing to the country, ladies. Members of the Government. It is no wonder that the Government does everything to prevent public scrutiny and clear perception of what these business and processes really mean. It is no wonder that the Government has refused to provide the Assembly of the Republic with documentation and concrete elements of the privatisation of TAP, which were being made available to the competing companies and to the interests of the sector as 'interested' in the operation. It's just that, the more you know, the greater the repudiation that makes you feel in the country in the face of these scandals. See what the Court of Auditors pointed out in the recent audit report on the privatisations of EDP and REN. With the infamous clienteleism of « advisories », tens of millions of euros of public safes were delivered to the usual ones—and only in these two processes! There are scandals behind scandals, with more scandals in there: information reporting measures that have never occurred; a posteriori assessment of the results that have never been achieved; financial consultants sign agreements and subcontract entities outside the law; subcontracted advisors whose curriculum is confidential and who is not available to the Court of Auditors; services provided by the same entity — the Banco Espírito Santo de Investiment, must have heard — first, as assessor at the service of the State and then as financial consultant at the service of buyers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the list never ends again. It is noted that only in these operations, i.e. 21 % of the EDP and 40 % of the REN, privatisations resulted in a loss of value for the State, in a financial perspective, of close to EUR 2000 million, guaranteeing private investors a return rate of 6, 5 %. Then we talk about savings in public debt interest that these operations have allowed. But it is enough to compare the EUR 115 million that are saved in interest with the EUR 180 million that have been lost in dividends. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members of the majority, much more serious than the shame of these numbers is the non-financial dimension but rather the strategic dimension of these levers of our economy, which you are giving to the interests of the economic groups. Thus, the privatizations reconstituted the monopolies that now dominate the economy, to the detriment of the national interest; increased the country's output of large profits; the state lost tax revenues and dividends of privatized companies, with the consequent worsening of the budget deficit; with the privatisations, the State lost capacity to intervene in the planning of the territory, combat asymmetries and promote a balanced development. That is why we clearly say that it is not enough to defeat the right; it is necessary to defeat the right-wing policy. The policies that PSD, PS and CDS have carried out, with fundamental sectors for our country, have to have a final point, once and for all. And the demand for rupture and change, to which we give a voice here, is what makes one feel from north to south in the struggle of the Portuguese workers and people. And it will be that fight that will defeat you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u7	Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u8	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CFP, by bringing the issue of privatization back to debate, or by stating its position against all privatizations, revealing an ideological prejudice towards the private initiative and capacity of the private sector. That's your point, today and always. But the fact that this debate is provoked has the virtue of clarifying positions and forcing all political forces to assume their responsibilities, as they have positioned themselves in one of the most difficult periods of our collective history. And then, in this period, what did the Portuguese have to say? The Government has always met its responsibilities: it has fulfilled international agreements; it has fulfilled the Memorandum of Understanding, and successfully, because it has exceeded the value of the PS-registered revenue for all privatisations;... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u9	... recovered the credibility of the Portuguese Republic; recovered the confidence, decisive factor for the promotion of investment. in the framework of governance, over these four years, the Government has assumed support for improving the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy and not, as in the past, support for protected sectors, as did the Socialist Party. The government has returned to the private sector companies that can best serve people in a competitive environment. For us, it is clear that the way along is very well understood by the Portuguese: to free the economy from the excess weight of the state. This is the point. And the PCP doesn't understand it today, nor will it perceive it in the future, as you didn't notice it in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u10	Ah, ideological prejudice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u11	the State has absolutely fundamental functions that are not and have never been involved. But the State cannot intervene and manage all sectors. It is up to you, yes, to exercise your function of regulation and supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u12	Look at that! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u13	With the privatisation processes it was also intended to save companies that needed to strengthen their own capital, they needed more investment and less use of debt. And the fact is that the Government has been implementing the privatisation programme provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding, as is also recognised in the audit report, referred hereto, Mr Bruno Dias. In this regard, it is important to cite some of the conclusions of this report, and not just those which you have mentioned. This report relates to EDP and REN when it refers to 8. the phase of ( re) privatization of EDP and 2. the REN phase, which was an "emergency imposed on the Memorandum of Understanding in the context of the negotiation of the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme" — that was the factor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u14	The eternal excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u15	It also notes : « These operations, as provided for in that Memorandum, were intended to contribute to the reduction of public debt, which was achieved with the total allocation of the net revenue of transactions to the depreciation of public debt ». So that no doubt remains, I repeat: the revenue of privatisations has served to pay public debt. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] This is mentioned in the report, I am not saying it. It also adds the report in point 110, and referring to privatisations, the following : « Despite the inappropriate time imposed by the Memorandum of Understanding, prices were appropriate in the face of market conditions. The process was competitive and transparent, as attested by the reports on the evaluation of the binding proposals of the Parliament and the opinions and activity reports of the Special Monitoring Committee". It is also fair to add, in the privatisation processes, what has been said about privatisations in Portugal by international entities. We all know what has been said about the success of privatization. It is therefore very clear that the government has played its part. You have fulfilled your mission to remove Portugal from the risk of non-compliance! Unfortunately, in this four-year period of governance, we could not expect anything from the opposition. The radical opposition, assumed by the parties to the left of the PS, centered on its absolute truths and without any adherence to reality, did not contribute to improve the country, rather.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u16	Then you go to the opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u17	The Socialist Party, for the past four years, has been denying reality and trying to escape the responsibilities it has assumed in the Memorandum of Understanding with our international partners—that is a fact and it is necessary for you to come here and say so—in a position with Syriza. Very briefly, I will give only three examples: the privatization of TTCs, TAPs and ANA. CTTs are a good example of what can be done in the area of privatization. The fact is that the workers have already clearly recognized the following: the company agreement has been made and have already recovered income in the privatisation process. And the management process was returned in a more competitive environment. So, what's in issue here is to figure out what the goal of privatization was. The objective was to give more muscle, more competitiveness to the economy, more capacity to obtain more funding for companies, more capital for companies and more foreign investment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u18	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know well, and this report from the Court of Auditors proves what we were already suspicious of: the PSD and the CDS campaigned for the legislative elections saying this as a champion of transparency government, it was a new era that opened up for the country and, after all, what was opened to the country once again were the doors of the state to the consultants of the custom, to the business of the custom, to the interests of the custom. Nothing has changed, there is nothing different in the way this government does business, in the way the previous governments did privatizations or businesses, and how these privatizations were detrimental to the interests of the country. And that is exactly what this audit of the Court of Auditors says. It is not the Left Block, nor the PCP, it is the Court of Auditors that comes to say, clearly, that the Banco Espírito Santo Investimento could not evaluate the EDP and REN on the side of the State and then go to advise financially the buyers of EDP and REN. It's a very clear conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u20	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u21	And it is the Court of Auditors that says so, whether Mr. Secretary of State agrees or not. The Court of Auditors says that there is a private consultant, connected to international banks, who could not have been hired because it was not on the list of pre-qualified entities, does not comply with the law—clearly! It's another violation of the public interest in these privatizations. But the Court of Auditors says more: that the EDP and the REN were underestimated, caused a financial loss to the State — very clearly! Who says so is the Court of Auditors. But it is not only the lack of transparency about the financial conditions or technical conditions of this business that is well elucidative of the way the Government does and organizes privatizations and those who want to benefit from these privatisations, it is also the character and defense of the country behind these businesses. The CDS and PSD spend the time filling their mouths to speak in national interests, in defense of the country, have outdoors to tell Portugal to Front and Acima de Todo Portugal. Where did these privatizations actually defend the interests of the country? Not at all! That's why you guys are. Members of the PSD and the CDS end up enlisting themselves in rascal excuses and they will always give the same: the troika has sent! The troika sent! That's because you know you have no more excuses. Companies need to be recapitalized, they say. What did EDP need to be recapitalized, Mr? What did the REN need to be recapitalized, Mr? What did the CTTs need to be recapitalized, Mr? One thing we know: TTCs were sold and, months later, they are worth more than ten percent of what they value at the time they were sold, and the state lost several hundred million euros in this sale process. We also know one thing: the profits that CTTs give, like the profits of EDP or REN, are paid to themselves to investors who bought them in a decade. Lose the state, in the long run! It is an irresponsible policy, in which a government, to say that it brings up hundreds of millions of euros, today, to make a good figure in the face of the troika and the European institutions, calls into question the future of the country, calls into question the sovereignty of the country. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] The Court of Auditors also states how much these large privatisations were worth in terms of public debt: 1, 35 %. How much have privatisations been worth in terms of public debt over the past four years? Not a year's interest in these privatizations pay! And what does the country lose? Decades of democratic control over strategic sectors forever! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you support your statements of defence of the country's interest with an audit by the Court of Auditors which writes, in the words of the Court of Auditors, that 'the legislative measures which safeguard the strategic interests of the Portuguese State have not been taken'? How are your statements compatible with this situation, that legislative measures have not been taken that safeguard the strategic interests of the Portuguese State? Oh, my God! It is that in the contracts of EDP and REN there are references to safeguarding the strategic interests of the State, but, imagine, there are no penalties for those who violate those safeguards! They are contracts « for Portuguese to see and for Chinese to buy and sign», they are not contracts that defend the interests of the Portuguese State or the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Members and Mr Secretary of State, when we see this report from the Court of Auditors, we realize why we do not see TAP privatisation documents, we realize why they do not show us the privatisation documents and the granting of urban transport from Lisbon and Porto, we realize why they do not show us the privatisation documents from EGF and Valorsul. All these processes are processes that address the strategic interests of Portugal, are bad business for the Portuguese state and people. Mrs. Members, who defends Portugal, who puts Portugal forward and above all does not sell Portugal to waste. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u22	Mr. Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This week the content of a report from the Court of Auditors was known to indicate an absolute lack of transparency in the privatisation processes of REN and EDP, in particular in the choice of intermediaries and consultants involved. The Court of Auditors, moreover, confirms the objections raised in a timely manner here in the Assembly of the Republic. at that time, the government replied, ensuring that there was no subcontracting situation of Banco Perella, a company that was not pre-qualified for this purpose and with strong links to PSD personalities. After all, the Court of Auditors has now come to confirm the fears of the PS and fully reject the Government, stressing further the existence of conflicts of interest. The Court of Auditors says so in all the letters: all this obscure procedure has resulted in considerable damage to the State. It is therefore imperative that the Government provide information on its role in choosing consultants in these privatisations. Is it true that the Parpublica refused to sign the contract of Banco Perella? Is it true that the Government pressured the General Deposit Box to make such a contract and that it also refused? Is it true that the government has finally pressured Box BI, her own public adviser, to make such a contract? Is it true that, as a result, a CGD administrator resigned? These doubts require a thorough clarification from the Prime Minister. All of this has to be resolved to the end, at the risk of doubting whether we are facing a case of favoritism and clientelism. The absurd haste of the privatisation processes of TAP and the urban transport systems of Lisbon and Porto will certainly deserve to be appreciated « the fine slope ». Why so fast? We know that the government does not have tomorrow, but the country has tomorrow and has a future and deserves to know—and it will know with certainty and with accuracy—all details of these processes. on arrival to the Government, the Minister for Economic Affairs publicly guaranteed that TAP would not be sold near the 2015 elections. For that is exactly what happened, demonstrating that for this right-wing government there is not even the concept of the word given. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho is responsible for the immorality we are witnessing in terms of state support, clientelism, favoritism ; lack of transparency and use of the state machine at the service of the PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Five months ago, the manipulation of competitions for social security leaders ended with all the places to be filled out by CSD and PSD militants. The government must also explain the order of a study, which is also very well paid — as much as the law allows — by direct adjustment, to an economist who is drawing up the electoral programme of the PSD / CDS coalition. The same person to whom the Ministry of Finance had already hired a study on pension cuts in the General Pension Fund, a study also well paid and whose conclusions were sent in a proposal of law duly plunged by the Constitutional Court. The question can and should be asked and the Prime Minister has to answer, because the question deserves a full answer: after all, the state is paying what, why and to whom? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not even the sovereignty areas have been saved. The closure and opening of embassies is no longer dictated by the national interest to be made under the interests of the members of the Government and the Prime Minister. There was no money, but now there is. The opening of embassies for the placement of heads of cabinets of a government in exile is a scandal anywhere in the world and is a disgrace to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State must be at the service of Portugal and the Portuguese and not at the service of the parties which support the Government. Still this week, it was published in Diário da República, at the end of the Legislature, the creation of another mission structure, where two public manager places are opened, for placement you know who! On the other hand, government requests to state general management to examine the PS electoral programme constitute a clear violation of the democratic rules and laws of the Republic. And it was not an isolated case; they were already known and admitted by their respective ministers of abuse in the Ministries of Justice and Economics, without the competent political responsibilities being assumed. The Prime Minister must respond to the use of state resources at the service of his party. The government has transformed the state into the true direction of the coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u24	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u25	I conclude now, Madam President. The government has given up ruling the country and is already trying to rule itself. The PS requires that the Prime Minister provide public clarification on the clearance of responsibilities and on the concrete measures it will take to end this clientelism, which cannot fail to undermine citizens'confidence in their institutions and ensure the independence of the State from the PSD and CDS devices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u26	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I am not surprised at the intervention the Socialist Party has just made, it is a sign of the days, it is a mixture of despair and envy. [[PS protests.]] I will not remember the committees of inquiry regarding the foundation for mobile communications or PPPs, or the reports of the Court of Auditors on PPPs or consultants, nothing, because it would be an act of suffering that I want to save the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u28	I don't know why! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u29	In any case, it does not cease to be curious that, being the phrase in the jobs for the boys of the authorship of the Prime Minister of the « swamp», the Socialist Party, because the polls are not favorable and because they cannot find the way nor a line of direction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u30	They're looking at Greeks!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u31	... go and make the policy of « say-what-what», to see case by case... In fact, with respect to the Greeks, I would not say that there are Greeks being seen, because the Greeks do not deserve this kind of qualification, but it is a question of envy, because these privatizations were written not only in the CFPs, not only in the government programmes, but in the Memorandum and, Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, the Memorandum is a written letter of the worst governance of the Socialist Party. The Memorandum does not mean that governance was good; the Memorandum exists because the governance of VV. Ex. was terrible, it was against the national interest and against the country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We had to fulfil this obligation, which, like so many others, we had to assume. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Catarina Martins.]] Therefore, I repeat, I am not surprised at the intervention of the PS, because it has to do with the « foam of the days ». The PS will find its way, in opposition, which is where it should be, and we will be here to solve the country's problems. As for the Portuguese Communist Party, once again, it brings a theme with the consistency of ever, patriotic and left-wing politics is always consistent and therefore I am not surprised. however, I am surprised that the reports of the Court of Auditors, for example on the Tejo Southern Metro, have said things beyond repair, such as all taxpayers to pay, traffic studies are completely wrong and the defense of national interest has not existed, and that the Portuguese Communist Party had never called the subject to the collation. That doesn't matter anymore! You are now saying that there is a lack of transparency. Question: is the fact that we are discussing a report by the Court of Auditors in Parliament or not an act of transparent discussion, of evaluation of a privatisation process? That's exactly what we're doing here. There is a Court of Auditors with powers strengthened given by that Government which, today, analyses and evaluates more than in the past and allows the Members. Members shall make such an assessment. In fact, the Court of Auditors says a lot and also refers, in terms of national interest, as a positive aspect in the assessment of the legal regime, to the law on safeguarding strategic assets. It may be said that it was late, but still exists. It may even make considerations about its clauses, but considers as positive that same defence of the country's strategic assets. Mr. Deputies, I have no ideological problem to say that privatization has good things. What I had so far were companies that increased, and much, the national debt, soon, had deficits; it had more taxes; it had a dubious management; it had more strikes, thousands of strikes... I don't know if the Communist Party has anything to say about the fact that the House of Setúbal, with the STAL (National Union of Local and Regional Administration Workers), has dispensed all its employees to participate in an action of protest and in more strikes... Perhaps that is a patriotic and left-wing policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u32	Pay the taxes of all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u33	Mr Bruno Dias, these strikes are exactly the biggest allies of private companies and the increase in market share of private companies because they seriously affect the public transport service and do not give credibility or stability. But you don't want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u34	That smells like mofo! It's before 1974! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u35	What smells of mofo is your politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u36	What we achieved with TTCs, for example, or with other privatized companies, was better management, more capital, less strikes, social peace, more employment, more taxes on the Portuguese economy. That bothers you, but patience! What we know how to do is defend the country, defend the national economy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u37	That's what's in sight! Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u38	Mr Heloísa Apollonia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u39	Mr President, Mr State Secretaries, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I believe that it has already been noted very well, not only by these interventions that the PSD and the CDS have done here but also by others that have occurred in many debates of the legislature and by the government's interventions, that the PSD and the CDS have a brutal ideological prejudice in relation to everything that is public and have highlighted, throughout the legislature, selling Portugal to the play. That's kind of what happened. They privatized everything they could, in a hurry, to reach the goal until the end of the Legislature. This is the story that has to be told. What did the Court of Auditors audit now tell us? « Beware because privatizations... » — and gave the specific case of REN and EDP — «... have been ruinous, have damaged the state, have not guarded the strategic interests of the State ». So what and what can we conclude from here? That the government is rendering a very bad service to the country. There is no other conclusion that can be drawn. We did not even need this audit of the Court of Auditors, although it is important to take it into account. As we have denounced here so many times, the state takes on profitable companies and sells. And what's the story? « It is a ruin to the state ». That's public! And then, miraculously, that will be a piece of gold for the private! There are stories here that, in fact, do not understand. The CTTs profited, the EGF profited. Taking the EGF, Mr. Hélder Amaral said that privatization is very good because they generate jobs. This even makes you laugh! EGF has now been privatized and has already come to SUMA, Mota-Engil says that they have 25 % more workers, which cannot be. So you're gonna have to rule them out. And the stories of privatization in Portugal don't tell that? Oh, my God! Don't they always mean dismissal in companies? Oh, my God! Of course I do! It is no use for you to continue trying to tell the « history of Carochinha », which no longer takes because reality speaks for you! Then Mr. Secretary of Infrastructure, Transport and Communications, who is present here, said in an interview that nothing mattered to be known as the « Secretary of State for Privatizations ». This says a lot about the intentions of the government. Does the government want to improve sectors? Are you working to improve sectors? Don't! He's working to hand them over to the private! Mr Bruno Dias, in his initial intervention in this current debate, gave clarifiers of investments that the government had made to hand them over from tray to private, was not to serve the people! Mr Afonso Oliveira said that privatisation money was very important to make financial cash. Question : And the dividends were not necessary? Are they necessary only for the private, to stick them in the administrator's pocket? Mr President, what the Court of Auditors has said is that you are ruining the country with your ideological prejudice. You're privatizing everything. This does not generate employment, read and ruin the country and is an absolute shame. So we need to change this policy and manage what is public. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u40	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The privatisation policy that brings us here today is a good thing to remember - it is a good thing - of the nationalization policy carried out in 1975, which made the State the owner of several hundred companies that were private property and were nationalized by pure ideological prejudice. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Privatizations carried out by this and previous governments recognize that the State cannot be the owner of the economy. The State cannot at the same time be the boss, the entrepreneur, the financier and the regulator, as the PCP would like.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u42	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u43	We live in an open economy, subject to high rates of international competition, European Union and Far East economies, and, in order to be competitive in this environment, companies need to be flexible, they need to enter into contracts and have access to funding. The privatisation procedures coordinated by the Public are conducted in a professional and scrutinised manner, such as the evidence, in fact, of the Court of Auditors'report. The information is available to the Court of Auditors as it is to the Special Monitoring Committee. First, the Parliament itself ensures, in accordance with established practices, that there is competition between potential legal and financial advisers. The Special Monitoring Committee, which the Government has appointed for each privatisation process, between persons of recognized professional merit and unquestionable independence, monitors the implementation of the process, ensuring compliance with the principles of transparency, rigor and exemption. Finally, the Court of Auditors monitors and controls all proceedings. If the sale takes place through the capital market, CMVM also intervenes as a regulator in defending the transparency of the transaction. Privatisations carried out by this government are real structural reforms that have enabled increased competition in the economy with benefits for users and users and have allowed the cash of over EUR 9300 million with direct effects on the reduction of public debt and its future costs. It is the structural reforms and the results of these for economic growth that allow us to face the future with confidence at the moment, contrary to what would have happened if we had been affected by the policies advocated by the CFP and which would probably make us very close to the situation that today lives less fortunate countries. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u44	On the Court of Auditors report, nothing, nothing, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u45	For a new intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Time will probably clarify why Dr. José Maria Ricciardi, president of BESI, was the only element of the former Superior Council of the Holy Spirit family that remained in office, despite all that happened. The BESI, in this story we are discussing, had an interesting role: it worked for the State, worked for the private, was on both sides of the table. It wasn't the first time! The same entities, the same people, the same BESI—at that time had another name, and you know, it was ESI—had exactly that role in the privatization of PT. So history repeats itself for the worst reasons. It is curious that the government has so far not said anything about this. So much transparency in privatizations, structural reforms, such a positive balance! Open... It's extraordinary like you guys. Members of the majority and the honourable Members. Government members are proud of what they are doing to the country. It is extraordinary how you ignore what is going on and ignore the concrete issues you face. So, is there not a word on what the Court of Auditors' report has come to be nude, evidence and confrontation? Is there not a word on what we are now referring to in the debate about a metro station that has been almost ready for four years and is now announced its opening in the hands of the private sector? Oh, my God! There is no word in relation to the negotiations with the Baraqueiro Group, which comes to demand the same money as it announces to the State, as if it were 'taken there gives it here'? By the way, please clarify the history of CP Cargo, that you want to sell, have a toast, which are the locomotives that you have denied all these years, having obliged CP Cargo to rent them for almost 18 million euros a year. What happens today is an adaptation of the popular proverb, especially when the economic groups themselves are in doubt about these types of offers. It's true to say, when alms is a lot the rich distrust, sirs. State Secretaries! That's where we got here! Mr. Hélder Amaral came here to talk about the PPP of the Tejo Southern Metro and I am glad he brought the subject up to the debate, but see if he does not regret it. It is because you were obliged to know that the project, which was proposed for years and defended by local authorities, was eventually transformed into a disastrous PPP by a contract negotiated by the previous PSD / CDS-PP government. After all, what are we staying in? It is the Court of Auditors itself which lays down some unquestionable truths, such as the European Union's taxes and its treaties, and that is the justification given by the Governments of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS to privatize and unconditionally withdraw any public control instruments on the strategic sector's companies. What we have found is that the current government and previous governments have agreed to capitulate the delivery of strategic companies to the country, by order of the creditors of Brussels, Berlin, New York and Frankfurt. At no time have they defended national interests and security. Any other conclusions on these privatisation processes to which the Court of Auditors has reached or to which the people can reach always come in the context of this betrayal to national interests and security, which has been made with the conversation of modernizations, investments, economic dynamisations, which are at the door of dividends distributed to the new economic and financial groups and transnational groups and the millions offered by the Parliament and the governments to the financial and legal advisories of these businesses. That's what we're talking about, sirs. Members of the Government. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u47	For an intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To save time for the Members. Members, I suggest that you consult page 18 of the Court of Auditors'report. That's enough! on page 18, the summary of the conclusions praises the model of direct sale so often criticized here. The Socialist Party said that direct sale was nothing transparent. The model of direct sale was praised in the Court of Auditors'report, such as the sale price of the shares of EDP and REN and the transparency and competitiveness with which these proceedings were conducted. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention the entire balance of the privatisation process, because we are not examining two privatisations, we are examining a privatisation programme. The revenue from the State was EUR 9, EUR 3 billion and the savings of interest to the State over the next 20 years, at the rate of EUR 3, 8 % per year, which is the average rate of the debt stock, is EUR 7, EUR 1 billion. In view of the dividends that the State will lose in the next 20 years of the same companies, assuming that dividends are a good recipe and that they grow to inflation—it is all the less true that it is—, giving it cheaply, the gain to the state is EUR 10, EUR 1 billion. in the next 20 years, the gain for the state, between the revenue obtained and the savings of interest, deducted from dividends, is EUR 10, EUR 1 billion. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Do you know why I don't mind listening to the leftmost party gentlemen saying that I am the Secretary of State for Privatization? Because I know what I stand for. I defend citizens, a free country with an intact reputation, with the capacity to finance in the intact market, with the ability to decide for themselves their fate, contrary to the policies that you defend, that they decide for themselves and that they always need the help of third parties. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u49	Since we are talking about strategic interest, let me say that we also have a very calm conscience in this respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u50	Are you going to talk about consulting, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u51	It is customary to say that projects are profitable or strategic. Who, in fact, wants to decide, not on the price, but on the alleged strategic interest, always finds a way to do it. We always sell for the highest price, in defense of the state's heritage interest, in defense of taxpayers, in defense of our sovereignty and our dignity, for the future of that generation that is currently attending the gallery session. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u52	Be ashamed, because we already realize that discharge has enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u53	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u54	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I think it is unbelievable that, when faced with specific issues such as the scandal that is happening in the companies we have just mentioned, the Secretary of State has not said a word to clarify that. I believe that at this time it is still going a long time to answer the questions that have been put to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u55	Mr. Secretary of State has no answers?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u56	Where is transparency?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u57	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, new inscriptions are awaiting. If they are not, we will move on to the next item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] The Secretary of State for Infrastructure, Transport and Communications has entered again. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, I do not want to repeat those times when no one is wasting time. I will already make my contribution to the CFP to be able to close the debate quietly, with the ideology we have all known from 40 years ago to this part. [[PCP protests.]] Mr Bruno Dias, on transport policy, let me say the following: we only commit work when we have money to pay it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u59	Ah! That's extraordinary! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u60	It's true! I know you may not have noticed, for distraction, but that's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u61	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u62	Do you know why the Reboleira has been awarded now? It is that two days before the award, the European Commission confirmed the financing of support for the line linking the Reboleira. We did not want to pay taxpayers without knowing whether the European Commission maintained funding. It has nothing to do with sub-concession! Forget the ghosts, Mr Bruno Dias, let's go to reality. Privatizations are an important instrument for diversifying sources of financing, are an important instrument for the slaughter of public debt, are an important tool for the development of companies, for the creation of wealth and employment. The State has no means to satisfy this need and we have already discussed it in this plenary, at least 18 times.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u64	At the request of the CFP, the Government has already come here at least 18 times to talk about privatisations, Mr. We did not steal from the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u65	Talk to the consultants! You know that so much! Explain the case of BESI!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u66	in the same way, Mr Bruno Dias, is more than 1100 strike notices in companies and they all say they are against sub-concession and privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u67	Talk to the consultants!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u68	It is clear who benefits from privatization and sub-concessions. Do you know who they are? The transport users, who cease to have strikes; the taxpayers, who see the public debt down; and all the country, who re-emerges their heads, earns dignity, reputation and walks by their own feet. As you are clearly seen today, it is not your policies that make countries walk by their own feet. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u69	Would you like to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u70	I shall finish, Madam President, by saying that we are in a quiet conscience and prepared for the polling. Privatisations carried out by this Government have ensured transparency, competitiveness and increased revenue for the Portuguese State. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has registered the entries of the Members. Mr Bruno Dias, Mr Afonso Oliveira and Mr Heloísa Apollonia. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Secretary of State speaks of defending the interests of the citizens. Citizens whose interests the government is defending are those who are taking account of the national economy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u74	... that they are taking to their safes and to their companies the resources of our country. For every 1000 € of dividends distributed from Portuguese companies, 19 € stay here and the rest goes to these citizens for whom you are talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u76	Do not worry about the warning of strike, because the struggle of workers will continue and that is what makes history progress. You have many problems, you are very afraid of strikes, you have a great allergy to strikes. by the PCP, we will continue to give voice to the struggle that continues to be held from north to south, precisely to defend the access of populations to public transport, to defend national sovereignty, to defend national security itself, when what are at stake are decisions that weaken the collective future of this country. Mr Secretary of State, we have found that the Court of Auditors itself has shown what we have said for a long time, i.e. that the generality of the regimes in force in European countries has measures which, in the sectors of strategic importance, aim to ensure that national interests and security are properly guarded, which includes, in particular, the shareholder capital of the companies that you are selling in fire sales. What you are doing is taking fire at home and saying, "With the house burning until we sell it for a very good price."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u77	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u78	I will finish, Madam President. That conversation is old, Mr. Secretary of State. Don't talk about demagogy, because you have a lot to tell about it, but you have a lot more to tell about consulting, which you have run away from as the devil on the cross. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u79	There was much to talk about these consulting and financial advice, that you have good experience on one side and on the other, but don't be mistaken, Mr President. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, because the truth really comes to the top and the struggle of the people and the workers is a decisive factor. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u80	Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u81	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: What is very clear at the end of this debate—and I am going to be very quick, because I have very little time—is that the parties to the left of the Socialist Party remain radical, as always, with fully defined positions and ideological prejudice, to which Mr Greens referred, but which is yours, because they have no different position than they take on any privatization, that is, whatever privatization, you are always against. They're against before, they're against later and they're against even there's no privatization. Another issue that seems clear to me in this debate is that the Socialist Party has no direction, does not know where it is going and resolves to come here to discuss matters that do not have to do with what is under discussion. Therefore, it was realized what his position was. The last question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has just mentioned something that seems very relevant to me in this debate: is that EUR 9300 million of revenue with privatisations and during the period in which we are living, in which European peoples are having more difficulty — and the Portuguese understand well what we are talking about —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u82	It's little more than a year's worth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u83	... EUR 9300 million devoted to paying public debt, allowed us to follow a path, which was that of responsibility and commitment. That was the role of the government, it is the role we respect,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u84	Your role is the same as that of the temple salesmen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u85	...is the role that we support, is the role that the Portuguese have fully understood. Now, you don't understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u86	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u87	I end by saying the following: When you look at a cheese, you see only the cheese holes! There's no doubt about it! That's how they work! Just look at the cheese holes! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u89	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia (The Greens): - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr and Mr Secretary of State were strange but at the same time clear. Is Mr. Secretary of State wanting to make any adjustments to the accounts with the workers because of the exercise of his right to strike? No, Mr. Secretary of State. But since we are talking about privatisations, why did I not hear Mr. Secretary of State condemn the attitude of the EGF, which I reported here, which as soon as it was privatized said: "We have more workers! », i.e. the notice of dismissal. Mr. Secretary of State did not say a word about these workers. You all right? Oh, my God! Or will they strike? Or won't they strike? Mr. Secretary of State, let's not play with serious things!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u90	It's eating and shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u91	Madam Secretary of State, are you trying to make any adjustments to the Portuguese democracy process? All right, ladies. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members of the PSD, you have made a great effort to get here and say: "We have made this sort of privatisation because the troika has forced us. Almost like anyone who says: «We were obliged, we were taxed». But then the Secretary of State fell and said: "We came to do all these privatizations because someone remembered nationalizing what was private before 25 April and which was in the hands of the large economic and financial groups. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u93	Exactly, says the Secretary of State. He wants to go back to the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u94	Fascist return!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u95	...either the economy in the hands of the large economic groups and the Portuguese subservient people. Don't laugh, Madam Secretary of State, because you said the truth that you often want to hide here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u96	What you're saying just laughs!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u97	This is why strategic enterprises in the country—strategic ones! — that will determine our development route are being placed in the hands of the private. And what can the Portuguese people say when these forms of absolute power make decisions that do not interest national interests?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u98	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u99	I will finish, Madam President. That is what you are doing with TAP, what you are doing with the transports of Lisbon and Porto, what you have done with the CTTs, EGF, EDP, REN, and all the companies that by ideological prejudice wanted to privatize. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u100	It's an account adjustment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u101	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the current debate required by the CFP on privatization policy and the loss of national interest. We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, on the proposal for a law No 345 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and the projects of lein.o 935 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 30 / 84 of 5 September, as amended by Law No 4 / 95 of 21 February, 15 / 96 of 30 April, and 75 -A / 97 of 22 July, and by Organic Laws No 4 / 2004 of 6 November, and No 4 / 2014 of 13 August, with Declaration of Corrigendum No 44 -A / 2014 of 10 October ( Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic - SIRP ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 997 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the regime of supervision of the Assembly of the Republic on the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and sets the limits on the operation of the services which integrate it ( Sixth amendment to Law No 30 / 84 of 5 September ) ( PCP ), 999 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, establishing the organisation of the register of interests of its stakeholders ( PS ) and 1006 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2014 of 6 August establishing the State Secret Supervisory Entity ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the proposal for a law, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Information Services of the Portuguese Republic is a decisive instrument for the security of the State and support for the government decision in democracy, through fundamental designs clearly included in the founding legislation of the entire system. for the missions that are responsible for each of the services, there is a clear ethical dimension of public service associated with demanding imperatives of transparency, accountability and monitoring in relation to citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. It is a fact that this has been a field of broad debate and some divergence of opinion, to a large extent, say, conditioned by historical stigmas or misconceptions related to the activities of each of the services. However, in the face of the current framework of huge threats and uncertainties that characterize the international system and over 30 years of the creation of these services, political consensus was finally formed in terms of the need to strengthen national information in order to make it possible to meet the real needs of the State. I welcome the sense of responsibility of the Socialist Party in this matter, which is not a party, is a state and is a defence of freedom and democracy. in the last four years, the government has committed itself either through the Strategic Concept of National Defence, or through the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy in the public recognition of the activity of information services as a strategic tool for the guarantee of national security. However, serious constraints arise in the face of new national and international threats that require a clear strengthening of their operational capacity that will only be able to respond effectively and efficiently to the growing security requirements and the defence of national interests. All of this, of course, in a fundamental balance between the production of information and an environment of transparency understood as essential for the sustainability of citizens' confidence. It is precisely in this context that this bill is inserted, which not only reinforces the legal framework of the whole system, in accordance with the constitutional procedure of organic law, but also seeks to validate access to operational means, in a transparent and express manner in the law, in line with the overwhelming generality of European information services and the standard of guarantees laid down in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. in the current context of threats, it is imperative to state what means national information can rely on to integrate into the essential system of cooperation with congenerous services and their European security systems and the Atlantic Alliance in combating terrorism. We cannot continue to have poorly armed or even unarmed services in the face of the capacities of action of the highly organized crime and terrorism they have to face. in this context, and in order to be able to respond to concrete threats, represented by fundamentalist terrorism, but also by high organized crime or by classical and economic espionage, it is extremely relevant to strengthen the common political understanding about the ability to access data from telecommunications operators, obviously subject to strict rules, safeguard the rights of citizens and under tight control and surveillance of the entity constituted by judicial magistrates, in accordance with demanding legal procedures. What is proposed is a system of judicial authorization so that it can be accessed in exceptional situations, such as the monitoring of Luso-descendant terrorists that integrate the ISIS, data mapping of target communications networks, within the framework of legitimate activities and legal missions of services triplely syndicated by own and specialized supervisory bodies. It is understood that this operational capacity is provided, since, because it does not access the content of the message transmitted and is not such access by intrusive method, the service will only access these data through a related procedure and with the reservation of the judge, which will ensure the need, adequacy and proportionality of that access with transparency and respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. It should be recalled that Portugal is currently the only country which does not allow its information services to access this type of communication data, since Switzerland, which was the other European country which did not have this legislation either — was in the same condition — is already in the final stages of the legislative amendment process. of the other amendments, I would like to mention the strengthening of the operational command hierarchy and the strengthening of the decisive role of the Higher Information Council in the direction of the information production activity, and the adoption of five-year budget planning plans for the means and resources of the information services by joint dispatch of the Prime Minister and the holder of finance. I also welcome the creation of the National Information School, clarification of the system of declaration of heritage, registration of interests, incompatibilities and impediments and accumulation of functions, as well as the consecration of preference by staff elements of the careers of information officers, in the appointment for positions of directors of the services. in essence, this bill promotes an approximation of the staff status of the information service to the other security forces and services, restoring the level of capacity to manage human resources and attractiveness and competitiveness of services, in the fulfilment of their assigned missions within the framework of national defence, security and interests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a rule of law requires strong institutions to protect the freedoms and guarantees it offers to its citizens. The exercise of the democratic authority duly proportionate and controlled is the guarantor of these same freedoms. This is the area par excellence of the mission of the information services. To undermine your ability to exercise it is to strengthen our own freedom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u103	Mrs. Members, the proposal for law No 345 / XII ( 4 ) is thus submitted. ( a). In order to put questions to the Minister, Mr. Deputies Luís Fazenda, of the Left Block, and Antonio Filipe, of the PCP. Since the Minister will answer together, Mr Luís Fazenda has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u104	Madam President, Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, I must now make a warning, because anyone listening to this debate will not immediately realize that there is a unit in Portugal to combat terrorism by a criminal police body, which is involved by the Public Prosecutor's Office and that it is not for information services to fight terrorism to the ISIS. I believe that we are not going to demean what the judicial authorities are doing and have a task in combating terrorism and highly organized crime. I would like to ask the Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs to question the constitutional conformity of this system of information system of the Portuguese Republic, not only in what is the subject of a dense communication from the National Data Protection Commission, whether the control of data traffic contains or does not contain with the Constitution, whether it has access to the contents of communications and, as such, would be prohibited by the Constitution of the Republic. I believe that the issue is much broader than that. For us, the Left Block, it is obvious that it contends with the constitutional norm, but it is much broader, because it is all data traffic, it is the location of a Portuguese citizen—and it is only those I care about now—, it is banking information, it is tax information, that is, any citizen will have his or her life and that of his or her supervised relatives. I therefore ask you questions concerning personal rights which are guaranteed by the Constitution. Is it true that in many European countries information services have such competences, but, Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, democratic control of the State is as weak as that which exists in the Portuguese Republic? Portuguese citizens can have their lives entirely monitored from a suspicion or mere random attitude on the part of a set of services. What's the judiciary controlling that? Is there any judiciary in control?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u105	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u106	There's no judiciary to control. It's worse than the criminal process. Mr President, in these circumstances, I believe that the Government should see that it is not an administrative entity, composed of judges, which is a judiciary. It is not a judiciary, it is a rush, but it does not have the powers, nor the powers that citizens expect the magistrates to have in relation to the guarantee of their rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u107	To put questions, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u108	Mr President, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, the Minister here presented the bill, but he did not say a word on a decisive issue that has to be debated, which is the gross unconstitutionality of what is proposed. This expressly refers to Article 34. the Constitution is that no interference in communications is permitted, except in criminal investigation. Clearly, information services do not work within the framework of criminal investigation. This committee, which you propose, composed of judges, is an administrative body, is never, in any case, a court body. A judge, since he is a judge, if he is placed in an administrative body, does not have to have a judicial function. And we are not the only ones who say this, the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission has already been made public. You will say it is not binding. It is true that it is not binding, valid for itself, worth its content and its content is extremely important and significant when the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) expressly states that, and I quote, "The extent and intensity of the processing of personal data made, of data which reveal various aspects of private life, when not even, because analyzed as a whole, our entire private life, implies the recognition of the proposed law in view of the possibility of such aggression to the rights to privacy, data protection and freedom which cannot be spoken of except in the legal sense of the term, apparently legitimate by law, but which violates the pillars of the rule of law and democratic society". The CNPD does not do any less and we believe that it is not to do any less, because what we are facing with this bill is a very serious attack on the guarantees of the constitutionally consecrated citizens. Well, Mr Minister, about this, he didn't say anything at all. The Minister may say that he disagrees with the Constitution—in fact, many PSD leaders and government members have said so. However, you disagree but must comply, you must respect, and this proposal before us is grossly unconstitutional, and that cannot fail to be present in this debate. We still hope that the Government, if not at this stage, at least at the stage of the speciality, will withdraw this provision if this bill is passed because it does not actually have any fit in the Portuguese legal order. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u109	In reply, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Luís Fazenda asked me two questions and Mr António Filipe only one which coincides with the second question put by Mr Luís Fazenda. Mr Fazenda's first question, which I associate with, has to do with the reminder — and I would remind him — that the fight against terrorism and highly organized crime is not exclusive of the information services, it is certainly not. I would say more: it is not even the fundamental entity in this fight, but it is one of the fundamental entities. what we are dealing with here is only legislation on information services, but of course I associate you with the reminder that the fight is also carried out by other institutions, from the very outset by the security forces and the entire internal security system. As far as constitutionality is concerned, Mr President, in practice I have spent half of my speech talking about it. What I didn't hear from the two gentlemen. Members, who have criticised the question of access to metadata, are the fundamental issue. The gentlemen. Are Members against or in favor? This is because, regardless of the interpretation of what is in the Constitution, it is this Assembly of the Republic which is constitutionally responsible for deciding on this matter, whether in the process of constitutional review, or in the process of confirmation by two thirds of a diploma. That is what the Constitution says and you know it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u111	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u112	You know the Constitution and you know it is. Who is competent to decide on this matter is the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic must take a position on this. I ask the honourable Member the following: do you know which European countries are where this legislation already exists? Very quickly, Germany, Belgium, Spain, Austria, Greece, Estonia, United Kingdom, France, Netherlands, Italy, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Romania, Norway, Luxembourg, Finland, Sweden, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, Denmark, Poland, Hungary and also Switzerland. Notice, Mr. Member, that I did not speak here in Cuba, nor in North Korea, nor in the former Soviet Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u113	But you can talk in Guantanamo!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u114	... where I've never heard the gentlemen. Members, who, at the time, both defended this soil in the world, opposed what practices were in this matter, far beyond metadata. So, what I'd like to hear from you guys. It is whether or not it is understood that combating terrorism today must have as its fundamental tool the participation of security services, on a global network, in relation to this traffic, which is certainly controlled by independent entities. The control proposed here is a triple control, three supervisory bodies: the committee composed of judicial judges; the data committee composed of judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which controls the data placed on the databases ; and the supervisory committee which is elected and operates here in the Assembly of the Republic. There are three entities. What are you guys talking about? Members have to define whether or not they agree that, in order to defend the freedom of citizens and the democratic rule of law, as he is currently being attacked, it is a necessary step that must be taken. on the part of the Government, on the part of the parties of the majority and, as far as it is known, I believe that on the part of the Socialist Party - although the Socialist Party will immediately intervene in this debate - the position is aligned with that of all other European countries, that is, we must take this step and the right time to do so is now. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u115	To present Bill No. 935 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the PSD and CDS-PP have the floor of Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u116	Madam President, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members : Very quickly, I will make the joint presentation of the projects of lein.os 935 / XII and 1006 / XII ( 4. ( a ) submitted by the PSD and the CDS-PP, which relate respectively to the procedures to be adopted in respect of the records of interest of the members of the Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the Secretary-General of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and also the members of the Supervisory Body of the Secret of State. The legal regime contained in these diplomas is in line with the proposal for a law now tabled by the Minister and on which I shall proceed in a second speech. It is a regime that will be assessed together with all the diplomas presented here, in particular with the diploma presented by the Socialist Party. What we want with the introduction of these amendments is to deepen the conditions of credibility and confidence in the information system of the Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u117	To present Bill No. 997 / XII, Mr.António Filipe has a bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u118	Mr President, before presenting the bill, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the following: when this debate was scheduled, the CFP Parliamentary Group had already handed over the bill that is under discussion. Therefore, according to the applicable rules, the time allocated to the CFP should be 10 minutes and not 6 minutes, as indicated in the electronic table, so I want to clarify this issue, in order to know how much time I have to make my intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u119	Mr President, I am now faced with this. I believe that the honourable Member will not, for the time being, exhaust all the time to present the bill, so as we look at this issue, I would give him the floor. If you think it's essential to see before... it's that I don't have that information at the table right now. [[Pause.]] Mr António Filipe, it is confirmed that the CFP has 10 minutes — we are already correcting the times, so you have the floor to present Bill No 997 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP bill has now been presented for discussion as an answer to a question that is central to us and that is put here, which is to propose, through a bill, but it has been publicly assumed that it results in a negotiation between the parties of the majority and the Socialist Party, as Mr. Minister now here has said and that the Socialist Party will confirm or not, but, if so, it is something we must only regret, a clear violation of Article 34. the Constitution. Indeed, the fact that the Minister has come to tell us that there are many countries in the world — perhaps, it will be the majority — that allow these types of firewalls on the part of the information services does not reassure us at all, nor does it strictly alter our position at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u122	If the Minister comes here to present the list of countries that keep the death penalty in their legal order, he will surely find many countries, and we do not identify with any of them on this matter. We're sure of what we stand for! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u123	What is here is a clear violation of Article 34. that of the Constitution, which is a fundamental right. The Assembly of the Republic will have constitutional review powers, but as long as the Constitution is not reviewed here, it must be respected. I would like to say that we are opposed to any proposal which, as part of a constitutional review, would allow this type of firewall, but, having not had this constitutional review, ordinary law does not have the legitimacy to proceed with this amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u125	The Minister says: "Well, we have supervisory mechanisms." Mr Minister, we, on this point, present the other point of our bill. As far as the effectiveness of the monitoring of information services in Portugal is concerned, I believe that we are being discussed. That is why the CFP Parliamentary Group proposes the extinction of the current Supervisory Board and that it be the Assembly of the Republic itself, and not by postponing the Supervisory Board, to assume at the highest level the supervision of information services, because we believe that the current Information Services Supervisory Board has already given sufficient evidence, over several years, of its futility. And so much so that for many years neither the PS nor the PSD nor the CDS felt the need for the Supervisory Board to exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u126	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u127	Several years ago he didn't even exist and you didn't worry about it! Now, it has existed again, but it continues to prove its total futility, because, when there is any public scandal related to illegal activities by the information services, the Supervisory Board knows for the social communication and its performance, as a result, is absolutely null. Therefore, we believe that there should indeed be a mechanism for monitoring information services, which currently does not exist from our point of view. But we think that this issue of allowing access, of allowing interference in communications is beyond the existence of monitoring mechanisms. We understand that neither with supervision mechanisms is beyond the reach of this constitutional provision. Access to citizen communications should be permitted only, from our point of view, in the context of criminal investigation, to those who have evidence of the practice of criminal law, including, of course, the crime of terrorism—if that is the case—but also other serious crimes, in which interference in communications and under judicial control is allowed, in criminal investigation, under the control of a judge in the exercise of his judicial function...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u129	...and not by a career judge appointed to an administrative body, which is what you propose here. Therefore, we still hope that good sense will prevail, without prejudice to other critical aspects contained in the text of the proposed law on organic matter, and that we will have the opportunity to discuss in the field of specialty. It seems important to us that, in defence of fundamental freedoms and because there is no fight against terrorism that justifies attacks on public freedoms — this is a fundamental issue for us — good sense prevails and that this provision is not maintained in the text of the bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u130	Mrs. Members, the Bureau was here making a correction of the allotted times, because the PS also claimed the 10 minutes and the Services have just confirmed us that the date of entry of the PS initiative still falls within the guarantee to benefit the 10 minutes, because it entered on the day of the scheduling itself. Looks like it's a beach...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u131	Madam President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u132	Of course, Mr Minister, but before you give the floor, I just want to say that we are giving this over time, because it is a matter that goes beyond us and we have to check right now. You have the floor, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u133	Mr President, my question is precisely on this subject because I cannot understand that decision of the Bureau. I remind the President that this day was reserved for a ruling agenda of a party, party, that gave the power to a government agenda. The Bureau is now trying to turn the government's agenda into a global agenda for all parties. It was none of this that was discussed at the Conference of Leaders, but the Bureau will decide. I would only remind the President that this session results from the transfer of a party's power to a government agenda. The other parties, as far as I know, asked for the drag and, when he drags, they don't all have the same time. It was only this clarification that I wanted to make it clear that there is no mistake in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u134	Mr Minister, if I understand your interpretation correctly, the fact that there is a transfer of power will contaminate the order of this debate... honestly, I did not understand. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u135	Madam President, what I said was that the agenda is not a joint one, because the agenda is a proposal for a government law that has dragged with it other initiatives, but by drag, not by joint agenda. Only when there is a joint agenda, as you well know, is that times are the same for all proposers; when there is a drag, the grid is followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u136	I understand the arguments of the Minister and I must say that you are right, but the Bureau has come up with this organization and, as I have had this information, we must understand ourselves, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. So the best thing is to argue to understand ourselves. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u137	Mr President, the Minister is right about what happened and the agenda that was set for this day, now something different is the application of the rules of time grids. The CDS excluded from the legislative agenda that it had the right, and which it had reserved, to be made the agenda of the bill that we are now discussing. at the time, I was already delivering the PCP bill, which we dragged. The application of time grids is the result of what is foreseen in the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, from the moment the bill was already handed over, we were entitled to the same time grid as the one who scheduled the initiative. And, as a matter of fact, that rule is being applied here. The Left Block and the Greens have no time other than the one established on the grid, because they had not previously submitted a project.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u138	Mrs. Members, since there is already a party that has the 10 minutes assigned, the PCP, then we will continue, without denying the other parties the same 10 minutes. We must establish internal equity in the debate and we must continue with it. And since the PCP has already used time within this concession, I have to guarantee the other parties. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Thus, to present Bill No. 999 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The appreciation of the relevance and foundation of the amendments now proposed to the Information System of the Portuguese Republic implies an unequivocal awareness of its need to increase the threats and risks that this global world in which we are living and which, in particular, interpret the values of civilization of open and democratic societies as typically those of the rule of law States that integrate the European area. Many of these threats and risks, diffused by nature, imply that States strengthen their prevention capacities, for their safety and their peoples, both within their borders and in a perspective of transnational cooperation, indispensable to the success of combating terrorism and other expressions of serious crime, as are the various international modes of trafficking. There is no doubt that the challenge posed to the legislator is very serious in the need for weighting that is placed on it as regards the need to reconcile more restrictive solutions to the scope of freedoms with more effective responses in the field of the prevention of these great evils of our time, capable of literally reaping the lives of innocent people and dragging them into the destruction and chaos of societies deprived of peace and development. This challenge is here and now, and all of us are called upon to take firm, serene and demanding reflections on the best way to achieve the public good of security and the inalienable good of freedom. It is with such sensitive options that we face and they need to respond. From the outset, the first major issue on which everyone is concerned: does a legislative amendment allowing information services to access traffic and location data relating to communications become an interference in communications? For those who respond positively to the question, as the CFP has recently answered, and in view of the constitutional conditionality that such interference is only admissible in the criminal proceedings, there is no doubt that the proposed solution is unconstitutional. And on the side of the PS, we fully admit that the constitutionality test can occur. However, for those who understand that, in the case of indisputably sensitive data, obtaining such data does not necessarily imply interference with the content of communications itself, then the issue can be seen in another light and admit — with demanding rules of protection against abuse — a legislative solution outside the scope of the criminal proceedings. This is the constant solution to the proposed law and it is this solution that, without prejudice to its improvement in the specialty, the Socialist Party has been available to admit, aware that it is that the hermeneutic effort of a solution according to the Constitution is an urgent requirement of the democratic state itself for the protection of democracy itself. It is, in our view, to undertake an up-to-date interpretation of the legal-constitutional notion of the concept of interference in communications, without prejudice to the strict treatment of the conditions of access to sensitive personal data which, in this light, on behalf of the public interest, the Constitution does not prohibit. We do so with the full awareness that our country is not an island in the international framework and particularly in the European framework of the area of freedom, security and justice, where the information services that have long been provided have access to such data. We do so knowing that law and law serve values that sometimes require a laborious effort of practical agreement so that the fundamental balance of life in society is properly preserved. We also do so with the care of seeking guarantee solutions that can reconcile their innovative sense with the suitability of the procedures. This is how the institutionalization of a committee of judges, giving it competence to approve prior requests for access to data and sensitive information, of duly substantiated requests and confined to the prevention of acts of a rigorous catalogue of threats, can prove a solution capable of establishing a more stringent framework of protection than a read-on could presume. The institutions, we all know, in order to survive and affirm themselves in fulfilling the missions for which they were designed, need to be defended and not left to the mercy of their detractors. It should therefore be stressed that a system consisting of two services — the SIS and the SIED — and shared coordination, but with the mandatory autonomy of its databases, subject to the regime of State secrecy, but also to three supervisory committees — the Committee on Monitoring itself, the Committee on Data Monitoring, composed of three magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and now the committee of three judges of the Supreme Court of Justice — is not so established because of lack of control mechanisms that will not fulfil the tasks conferred on it in respect of the regime of rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. Until the end of this legislative process there are some improvements that are justified and the PS will present its proposals. However, what the PS will not do is undermine the sense of responsibility with which it has agreed to dialogue with the government in seeking an institutional understanding that, in matters of regime, and in times of serious threats to democracies, is particularly necessary. That was the position we took in the negotiations of the general strategy for the prevention of terrorism. It is with the same sense of responsibility that we must not fail to criticise the PSD and CDS for the ambivalence of the guidelines they reveal. While the PS engages in a consistent and broad understanding of all SIRP themes, the parties of the majority submit proposals regarding the processing of interest records that disregard the high sensitivity required to protect those who have an institutional role to play in the system. We believe that the sense of responsibility prevails above any unclear volunteerism. The broad consensus that the construction of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic has raised over time cannot be compromised. Send the national interest that does not happen. We therefore look forward with constructive commitment to the availability of both the Government and the parties of the majority for the weighted assessment of the solutions to be enshrined by the end of this legislative process, where the position of all must be carefully considered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u140	The Bureau noted Mr António Filipe's inclusion in order to make requests for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u141	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, there is an issue which I believe should be fully clarified here about the position of the Socialist Party. He referred to those who considered that access to metadata is a form of interference in communications not allowed by the Constitution and said that is the position of the CFP. Yes, yes, sir! But, Mr President, it is not only the position of the CFP, that has been the position of Portuguese jurisprudence, that has been the application of the Code of Criminal Procedure in Portugal, and that has always been the position of the Socialist Party when we discuss this matter about the so-called « envelope 9 » on the famous shopping list of Dr. Jorge Silva Carvalho!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u143	The position of the Socialist Party was always very taxing that such intrusions were not constitutionally permitted interferences. My question is this: has the Socialist Party changed its position on this matter and has it associated itself with the position of the Portuguese right? Yes or no? That's what we'd like to know. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u144	To reply, Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u145	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, we both have historical memory and, on behalf of this historical memory, we know that the Socialist Party has from the outset defended an efficient Information System of the Portuguese Republic and that since its primordial and genetic moment, the Communist Party has done everything to prevent normal functioning in our Information System Country of the Portuguese Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u146	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u147	...which, of course, makes a difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u148	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u149	on our part, as happened in particular with regard to the so-called 'anti-terrorist package', an effective commitment to interpret the threats and risks of our time and to try to give them adequate answers in the balanced framework of the values that imply practical agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u150	Minister Marques Guedes has already said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u151	of the Communist Party, a systematic distancing of this kind of effort. in this sense, Mr.António Filipe, what we have said here is that we are fully available for constitutional controls, because we believe in them. But we said more: that, in view of the situation that it is important to ensure for the defence of the security of the state, society and people, and the very serious risks with which societies of our time are confronted, it is important to assess whether it is possible to make an up-to-date interpretation of the possibility of access to sensitive data —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u152	Modernist interpretation? Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u153	... we continue to say that they are sensitive data—and can ensure that they are subject to prior control, ensuring unequivocally the protection rights for which citizens must be protected. As far as this is concerned, I must tell the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen of the Communist Party, in a very simple way, because the separate part has come to me here, that on this bench, about the affairs of the state, there is no 'change-intel'!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u154	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u155	There are people with a deep sense of democratic responsibility,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] ... there are people with a deep sense of the primacy of knowing how to reconcile security and public freedoms...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u156	in the case Silva Carvalho, said exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u157	...and here is also a historical distinction between us and you...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u158	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u159	...and this historical distinction goes through the idea that we have...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u160	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u161	...that information services are entirely compatible with the guarantee due by a democratic state and a normal democracy to function.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u162	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u163	Since the beginning, since the 1980s, Mr. Members of the Communist Party have not yet been able to reconcile with this idea. Late, but one day they may end up doing it. That's my hope. As for constitutional issues, we are fully available to discuss them in all its implications, but with serenity, with a sense of responsibility and with a requirement before the values in question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u164	This is to decriminalize Silva Carvalho!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is awaiting registration. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u166	Madam President, Minister for the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: I begin by praising this elevation with which Mr Minister here presented us with a diploma that is crucial in the current context of the security and defence of the Portuguese State and the terms with which he led the process, in an attempt to reconcile with the majority possible in this Parliament. It is our understanding, as the Minister rightly pointed out, that this is a matter of State. As such, in this House of citizens' representatives, we must be united in creating conditions for the security and freedom of every citizen who lives here or lives here to be effectively guaranteed. I cannot but make a reference to the attacks we were aware of last Friday, Minister. last Friday, we had news of attacks allegedly carried out by the Islamic State in France, Kuwait and Tunisia. We are talking about the borders of our security, we are talking about highly organized crime and terrorism within our area of security and defence, within our European paradigm that integrates the States of the European Union, but also others. As Mr Filipe has just mentioned, and very well, they are countries that do not have the death penalty admitted today, but Portugal, contrary to what Mr António Filipe has said, is the only European country that does not have these instruments available to the information services of the Republic so that they can continue their data collection activity to ensure the prevention of the safety and freedom of citizens. I cannot but make a reference here to the importance of information services in the current context. There must be a very skilled information service, equipped with appropriate instruments and in coordination with the information services of our European partners, and not only in such a way as to be able to effectively promote their activities. Recently, I reported three attacks that occurred and were reported at the end of last week. They are attacked with tremendous horror levels, Minister. I will not show here the facts that have happened, but we all have this knowledge, because social communication has done its work and has brought to our knowledge the evidence of the horror that is practised by terrorism installed also in Europe and North Africa, whose border is very close to Portugal. Will Portugal be safe from this type of highly organized terrorist and criminal activity with regard to trafficking, whether human beings or not? Well, I think that none of the citizens' representatives in this House can guarantee that Portugal is out of this context. We therefore have an obligation to assure the Portuguese citizens that our information services are equipped with the necessary tools to continue their activities. On the other hand, I cannot fail to mention that, apart from the opinion, which has been referred here, of the National Data Protection Commission, we have received others, such as that of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, and there is doctrine contrary to this assertion of gross unconstitutionality. I want to clarify here that what is at stake, what we are providing our information services is access to metadata, not access to content. I also want to recall here that any strict interpretation of Article 34. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, an article which was formulated in 1976, as the Minister well knows, with a very slight amendment that adds other means of communication... In 1976, what was in the spirit of the legislator was the interception of content of communications ; otherwise it could not be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u167	By that time the wallets couldn't tell who the cards were!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u168	...because other communication mechanisms did not exist in Portugal, nor in the world. We must therefore make an up-to-date interpretation, as Mr Jorge Lacão has said in this regard. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] That is exactly what the Data Monitoring Committee does. I would also like to point out here that access to metadata by information services is dependent on prior and mandatory authorization — I repeat, prior and mandatory —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u169	Does the Supreme Council of Justice control this activity? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u170	... a data prevention committee and this prior and mandatory authorisation shall be given by the Pre-Checking Committee, which shall consist of three Judges Counsellors of the Supreme Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u171	Does the Supreme Council of Justice control this activity? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u172	in this context, in addition to this control by the Committee on Previous Control, we have two other controls : of the Committee on Data Control, as the Minister has well mentioned, composed of judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and also of the Council for the Monitoring of Information Services of the Portuguese Republic, which is elected by this Parliament. Therefore, it is our understanding that we must have a fair weighting between the values that we want to guarantee the information services to ensure the purposes to be pursued and other equally relevant constitutional values, particularly those that relate to privacy issues. It is precisely this fair thought that we do, as our European partners have done and as the European Court of Human Rights itself has come to do, and, in this fair consideration, the conclusions have been to consolidate the limited and highly controlled need for access to these data. I also recall, Mr Minister, that we already have in Portuguese legislation a number of entities that have access to data content, with regard to bank data, including the Banco de Portugal, but not only the Securities Commission, the Deposit Guarantee Fund, among others. Therefore, our Constitution already admits that some non-judicial entities have access to content. But that is not what is at stake here and we are not going to cast confusion on this matter. What is at stake is only access to traffic data, metadata and communications location data. We consider this instrument, as many of our European partners and international organizations consider, namely NATO and others of our paradigm of security and defence,... [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u173	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u174	I'm done now, Mr. President. I said, that we believe that the use of these instruments by the Information Services is absolutely crucial for the pursuit of its activity. We will be available to adjust what needs to be adjusted, taking into account the content of the opinions. But I would point out again that there is no unanimity in the conclusion of unconstitutionality and much less the gross unconstitutionality which Mr António Filipe referred to. In conclusion, Mr Minister, it is up to you, like us, to guarantee security and effective freedom conditions in national territory so that the horrors we saw happen here a week ago in Kuwait, Tunisia, France and other European States for several months ago. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u175	Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u176	Mr President, Minister Luís Marques Guedes, recently to try to justify the position of the Government and to contradict the intention of the Left Block, spoke of the Soviet Union. I could even talk about China, such a friend of our government, could perfectly, but that happens next to the Left Block, because it has nothing to do with it. What we have to do is ask ourselves, Mr Minister, to explain to us later which of the European countries has information services that are so « along the streets of bitterness », equal to the rating of the Republic, like Portugal. Which of them has such weak control of the democratic state over its information services? Which of them has the parapolitical vocation in the information services? This is not the case of Portugal that has Information Services and not the secret police! when hearing Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho talk here, it seems that the great instrument to combat terrorism in Portugal is the Information Services. They're not! There is a unit called for the fight against terrorism and highly organized crime, controlled by the Magistrate. There are, therefore, other instruments to combat terrorism. Certainly, the Information Services are a useful element in this fight against terrorism, but they are not the Information Services, as much as they speak of all the attacks — which we repudiate and are horrendous — that they make the direct fight against terrorism. But this law which is proposed here violates the Constitution, not only in Article 34. the, on interference in communications, but also in Article 26. o on the misuse of information from individuals and families. Mrs Deputy speaks in the meta-data, but it is not the meta-data they are concerned, it is the location of the citizen and the citizen at all times, it is the electronic surveillance of the citizen. Who controls that kind of surveillance? My question was very clear: whether or not we can accept that the Constitution can accommodate a solution which is not strictly the one expressed there, what is the control of the Magistracy? There's no control over the Magistrate! You can put three football referees there who are no longer a control of the Magistrate. They are judges of the Supreme, of course, but it is not the Magistrate, it is an administrative entity, like any other, that could be composed of other citizens. We certainly do not doubt the technical competence or reputation of the people who can fill that committee, but it is not a judicial entity. So there is no control, there is no scrutiny, there is no capacity of the citizen or the citizen to repair damage that may eventually be committed against the reservation of his personal, private life, and of his family.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u177	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u178	It is noted that without even needing a suspect, much less a clue, a whole set of people may be being monitored electronically. Bring to whom? Who controls that? This is a state within the state. Don't come and talk to me in Europe, Minister! Let us make the necessary conditions arise within the Information Services, but not against the Constitution and, above all, far beyond the controversy of the meta-data. This is about making electronic surveillance to Portuguese citizens, without control of the judiciary, out of criminal proceedings, out of any kind of investigation. Above all, access to courts by citizens is a mere impossibility, as has often been proved. And with what Information Services? With those who walked "Ongoing"! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u179	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u180	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I think it is very important, at this point in the debate, to clarify the position of the CDS-PP and to leave our perception on what we are discussing. And what we are discussing, from a global point of view, are changes to the information services regime of the Portuguese Republic. We may ask what kind of changes we are making, what degree and with what relevance, such as what has just been done, but we cannot dissociate these changes from why we are doing them. The reason that leads us to make changes is the essence that can then lead us to discuss or improve, or not, the system. Mr. Luís Fazenda says that the Information Service of the Republic, and there are other entities competent in this area, is a useful service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u181	It's the main one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u182	It is not only useful, Mr President, it is essential to combat terrorism and to protect Portugal and Portuguese. It is not only useful, it is indispensable, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u184	In fact, we are having this discussion now because the world is very different from what existed 30 years ago, when we made this law or when these same services were created. We're with completely different realities. We do not already live in the bipolar world of the Cold War—although sometimes there seems to be a certain trend towards this return, which I hope does not happen—that so passionately our opponents from the front, namely the Portuguese Communist Party, who saw in the Soviet Union the Sun on Earth. It's not in this world that we live in.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u185	Oh! I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u186	Do you still see, sir? All right, keep looking! No problem! Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental threat we have is no longer that. The threat that the West and democracies have is terrorism, namely jihadist terrorism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u187	You speak more in the Soviet Union than we do! Have you noticed that, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u188	As has been said and remembered here, and well, by Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho, still at the end of last week and this weekend we saw the expression of this terrorism. We saw the attack on tourists on a beach in Tunisia, we saw attacks in Syria, we saw attacks in France. We have seen very violent attacks that have resulted in hundreds of deaths and that threaten freedom, innocent people and the West at all times. We all reacted when they were the attacks in Paris in January, as we reacted when they were the attacks in March in Tunisia. Then this matter falls into the background. We have voted here and we will, unfortunately, return to the vote of regret, with the whole House, with the whole House standing. But then, when it comes to providing our Information Services with means and mechanisms to protect us, we no longer want and it is no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u190	And isn't the Constitution necessary any more?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u191	That, sir, is obviously a hypocrisy. [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the other hand, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also have the notion that Europe's evolution has been a positive development which in itself brings risks. I am talking, for example, about freedom of movement, which is undoubtedly a positive fact. We circulate today on the basis of the treaties we have and in that sense we have evolved under the terms of the Schengen Agreement. This is a very positive fact, but, at the same time, freedom of movement obviously poses risks to the European space, especially at the level of the introduction of enemies, fundamentalists and terrorists that endanger Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u192	Freedom of movement?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u193	Freedom of movement and the Schengen area have risks that did not exist in the past, Mr President. The lack of border control has risks, as is clear, because it makes it easier to act as elements that may represent danger. There is nothing more positive in our society than the true technological revolution we have witnessed over the past 30 years. It is a profound revolution in the history of humanity, but, of course, it also allows these organizations to use technological means—which we have seen to be systematically used—which obviously put Europe at risk. We must therefore have new answers, we must have a new degree of demand in the response to the fight against terrorism. And the diplomas that we are discussing here are due to this in valuing the frameworks, in valuing careers, in the degree of demand in the organics, in the statutes and in the staff, as well as in the level of driving and direction. Then, these diplomas have central issues, which are the purposes that are at stake and the means to achieve them. It is clear that we are discussing the extension of access to data, more specifically to meta-data, as we have been saying this afternoon. The extension of such access to banking information, tax information, communications data and the registration of such communications or traffic data is essential. We don't ignore the discussion that has been stopped and we don't run away from it. We understand that there are criticisms and that there is concern. however, this concern has to be viewed, managed and organized from the point of view of value weighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u194	Electronic surveillance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u195	That's where he has to be! It is in the weighting of values and the weighting of rights that are, in both circumstances, fundamental rights that must be the answer. That is to say, we have an obvious value, which is the value of privacy, the value of protecting communications, but we also have a value that is superior to those all who are the value of human life, the value of protecting Portuguese against the threat of terrorism, the threat to human life and all the freedoms that terrorism constitutes. We can have two readings on this subject and the second reading, which is the one we approach, is the most reasonable and acceptable. I agree with the reading by Mr Lacão, who, moreover, in the opinion he has drawn up, says that, not being involved in the intercession—there is a vast list of countries, as Mr Lacão said, who have access to these data, but there are still countries that have the very possibility of intercepting, which, in our case, is reserved for police in criminal proceedings—that no one is proposing, of course, we are in respect of constitutionality. on our part, we would like to make it clear that we are willing, if possible, to find, if there is a better and more desirable hermeneutic, to work in this direction to clarify that same matter, which is possible to improve. There are issues that need to be considered under this law. I agree that the SIRP is not the only counter-terrorism entity and therefore the very link between the various entities that can act on terrorism issues must also be regulated and weighted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u196	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u197	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we have a very clear position, which is the one that has been expressed here in defending the publicity of interest registers and we also have a very clear position in the monitoring model, which we believe can be improved. Now to put the President of the House and the chairman of the committees, who already have the most work, as well as the parliamentary leaders, who are people who also have something to do, to oversee the services, is to want nothing to be done, Mr President. Recognize that and have that notion. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that anyone who denies services the means, who weakens our information services is not weakening these services, is weakening the fundamental right of Portuguese to freedom, security and a life in peace and tranquillity. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u198	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a consensus here in the case of today's debate on the scope of the restriction of freedoms and guarantees which does not count with us. We do not associate ourselves with this consensus and reject reading that we need to liquidate the freedoms to combat terrorism. That is the reading which has been made here and which has been made in a very elucidative and eloquent way by Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u200	Who has freedom is North Korea, it is not England, neither Germany, nor France, nor Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u201	The question is that if we look at what has been done on behalf of the fight against terrorism since 2001 here we will see that a concentration camp has been set up in Guantánamo, which, moreover, President Barack Obama solemnly promised that he would close in days when, almost 10 years ago, he made that promise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u202	With your support, the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u203	This has nothing to do with President Obama!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u204	Secret CIA flights have been made, which have used and abused the national territory, to which you wanted to close your eyes ; secret prisons have been opened in Europe, which has been denied feet together and is now proven to exist ; arbitrary arrests have been committed, legislation has been made, the famous Patriot Act, which has been consistently criticized by all civil rights organisations in the United States. However, has terrorism been more effectively combated or, on the contrary, despite these security measures, is the terrorist threat an increasingly powerful and latent threat? That is why we reject the idea that freedoms must be liquidated as a means of effectively combating terrorism. in a tragic way, life has shown that it is not. So, let us ask: in order to strengthen the means of combating terrorism in Portugal it is necessary to allow the Information Services to devade the communications of Mr Telmo Correia?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u205	I have nothing to hide!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u206	Or do you have uncontrolled access to Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho's communications, to my or to Mr Jorge Lacão's communications?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u207	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u208	That is what is at stake here and not to reinforce the means to combat terrorism. What is at stake here is that, in the name of the fight against terrorism, mechanisms are put in place to allow the invasion of every citizen's private life, without any control over it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u209	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u210	I'm done now, Mr. President. If there are victories of terrorism, they are the safe drifts. Every safe drift, every restriction on fundamental freedoms and democracy are the victories of terrorism. We want to combat terrorism in the name of democracy, we do not want to give in to terrorism by liquidating democratic institutions that must be preserved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u211	For an intervention, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Parliament have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I want to leave two or three points. Firstly, I would like to take note of the comments made by the honourable Members. Members of the majority and, on behalf of the Socialist Party, the intervention of Mr Jorge Lacão,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u213	Which is very fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u214	... by associating myself with the demands of the majority and the Socialist Party for the opening of the Government for joint work, in the specialty, which can of course introduce improvements in the essential aspects discussed here more in this diploma, and in particular also in the proposals that have been put forward, either by the Socialist Party or by the majority. The other point I would also like to point out is that, during this debate, a clear line has been drawn on the issue of meta-data. I would like to make clear the position that the Government itself has on this matter. First, there must be a clear separation between what is intersecting communications and what is access to traffic data, which are different things, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. It is obvious that what is in the Constitution of the Republic does not allow the intercession of communications, does not allow calls to listen, does not allow access to content of emails or texts exchanged between citizens. This is clear to the Government, it is clear from any interpretation of the Constitution. The question of access to traffic data is placed in the plane of the interpretation of constitutionality, an interpretation which today is made by some jurisprudence and by some doctrine in the broad meaning of the norm itself, as has already been said, starting there to conclude that any kind of interference, even if not the intercessing of communications, would violate the constitutional text. That's not our reading, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u215	But that's exactly what the Constitution says!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u216	As you know, the government's reading is even more important than that. Clearly, the Government assumes that it should be given to the Information Services in Portugal the same kind of rights as the generality of information services, a little around the world, today, have, not only as regards metadata but also, under certain and demanding control procedures, access to the intercession of the communications themselves, because nowadays that is the instrument where highly organized crime is developed and where terrorist networks are developed. Not to do so is to allow our freedoms, our states of law and our democracies to be unarmed before their enemies, who use and abuse these technologies to address their own freedoms and to address their own democracy. It is to bury the head in the sand what, with greater or less political cynicism, with greater or less political hypocrisy, some political forces tend to say, i.e., that this is going against the rule of law. It is strictly the opposite, Mr António Filipe. Those who go against the rule of law are the terrorists, those who, using these technologies, attack us. It is not access to meta-data which is unconstitutional, Mr. What is unconstitutional is to put bombs in temples, in places of worship, to hunt down millions of innocents; it is to behead people just because they do not profess our religion; it is to indiscriminately kill people just because they are not of our color. That is unconstitutional, Mr Deputies, and that is why we all have to stand up. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u217	Sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u218	Finally, I will leave here a word of defense of the good name and work of the Information Services in Portugal. contrary to what some Mr. Members of the Left Block and the Communist Party said or tried to insinuate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u219	I didn't insinuate anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u220	... it is not at least true that our Information Services are not effective and unworthy in the light of the Constitution itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u221	Ask Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u222	It is precisely the opposite, Mr. João Oliveira, our democracy has the honour to have Information Services with security forces that are very prestigious, both national and international,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u223	That's burying your head in the sand!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u224	... and it is this prestige that we have to safeguard if we want to defend the rule of law, if we want to defend our democracy and if we want to defend our freedoms, as we all fill the mouth we want, but that then it is necessary, in practice, to know how to take the measures, even when they are difficult, to protect that same freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u225	Well, you can see!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u226	That is what I hope that this legislative process can take place here in the Assembly of the Republic, because that is what we expect from the citizens who are out there, who depend heavily on the security and freedoms that have been conquered in our country and which must also be preserved with the democratic authority of the State. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u227	Since there are no more entries for this debate, we will move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 1553 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2014 ( Committee on European Affairs ). For an intervention, Mr. Gabriel Corte-Real Goucha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u228	Mr President: The report we are discussing today is a report that accurately describes and details the Portuguese presence in the European Union and is a very extensive report. however, there are two points that I would like to highlight. The first relates to energy and the second to the appointment of the President of the European Commission. These were two points where the Portuguese Government had a decisive position, but not even a leader in certain matters. in energy we achieve harmonisation of the Iberian markets and the extension to France ; in the designation of the President of the European Commission we introduce a factor that will further democratise the designation of that President. The Portuguese Government, together with the majority of the governments of the European Union, agreed that the candidate for the President of the European Commission should be chosen from among the most voted political group in the European elections. It is indeed a very important precedent, which will allow the citizens of the European Union, in a much more active way, to be able to participate in the President's choice in the future, opening up even more in a democratic way, such participation. The position of the Portuguese Government was, from the outset, decisive in supporting this measure, which initially had many opponents from several governments but, fortunately, the Portuguese Government supported it from the beginning and managed to take it to a good port. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed today, here, the report on Portuguese participation during 2014 and we have just heard the PSD Member referring to the report saying that it is exhaustive and quite descriptive. Indeed, this is the case, but it clearly omits what was the position of the Portuguese Government during the year 2014 in its relationship with the European Union. In particular, it omits the implications it had in the lives of the Portuguese, in the lives of workers, at the level of the social functions of the State, at the level of the destruction of public services. That is what the report does not say and should say. But the report also refers — and is clearly expressed there — to the position of submission, the attitude of abdication which Portugal had during the year 2014 with regard to defending national interests and sovereignty. What the report clearly explains is that during 2014, as in all years of PSD / CDS-PP governance, the Government of Portugal, before the European Union, has never raised the voice in defence of national interests, in defense of national sovereignty, in defense of the fundamental sectors of the Portuguese economy. So today, what we should be here discussing, in fact, were the implications of this position, but we well understand why the PSD has omitted these implications. The rapporteur for the opinion of this report, Mr Corte-Real Goucha, of the PSD, is in line with this policy of abdicating national interests. What we, the CFP, say is that what Europe and Portuguese really need is a break with this European Union path, a break with this neoliberal policy, which wants to impose exploitation and impoverishment on peoples and in particular Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u231	Mr Rui Barreto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If you will allow me, because today is 1 July, the day of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Madeiran Communities, I would like to greet and greet all the Madeirans, those who live in national territory and also all those who, in the four corners of the world, work daily for a better life. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u233	Mr President, of course the Bureau is associated with the vote of the honourable Member. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u234	It would not be to expect anything else, Mr President. Having mentioned the subject of the Report on Portugal in the European Union for 2014, I would like to say that it is a large, nearly 400-page document covering a wide range of governance issues, but I would like to highlight four important developments, four areas of particular relevance to Portugal. First, Portugal 2020. The conclusion of a negotiating process led to the establishment of the partnership agreement and thus to an important financial envelope from 2014 to 2020, in the overall amount of some EUR 26 billion, which will enable the four Structural Funds, in the areas of cohesion, regional development and fisheries policies, to place Portugal on the path of competitiveness, internationalisation, innovation, knowledge and thus enable employment and social cohesion indices to be improved by 2020 as well. A second look, energy. Portugal, in 2014, has recognised an important agreement to strengthen trans-European energy networks. And here was important the role of the Portuguese Government, in particular the Prime Minister, in setting a target of 15 % in 2030, which will enable Portugal to be an exporter of renewable energy. A third aspect, the trade agenda and the transatlantic agreement, not only that which was concluded with Canada, but that which has had important developments between Europe and the United States of America, which will allow Portugal to be placed in the centre of the Atlantic and thus also develop an important business promotion and create a large, important and largest free trade area. To conclude, and no less important in 2014, the closure of the financial and economic programme which Portugal signed in 2011 and which ended in May 2014, which allowed the recovery of sovereignty, greater autonomy, greater growth and the replacement of income for all Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u235	Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I understand that the report on this subject, above all, reinforces the positive indications, but I would also like to note that the environment and achievements at European level have not been so positive. We have had elections for the European Parliament where extreme left and right fringes have been able to have a more significant, Eurocétic representation, and that is worrying. We also have the growing feeling of alienation on the part of national parliaments. National parliaments have increasingly the idea that they do not participate in European construction and are not being sufficiently valued in European construction. on our borders, on the borders of Europe, we have very serious and uncontrolled conflicts. at the East level, we have the conflict with Russia, which is an unresolved conflict ; at the northern level of Africa and Syria we have problems that make us think more and more about the need for an effective and effective European foreign policy that is slowing down. On the other hand, we have the pressure of immigration, which particularly affects some of the countries of Europe, Italy, Greece, Malta and other countries, a pressure that is also creating a response from Europe that is not a fully effective and positive response and in some cases a response that has to be refused, as is the case with the construction of walls to divide Europe from the rest of the countries. We also have a situation of unemployment—we had in 2014 and this is extended to 2015—and the response to the crisis, i.e. the need for development and growth policies is not being sufficiently answered by Europe. In view of this scenario, and since we are discussing this, what role has Portugal played in European construction? A paper without any influence. We had the European Commission's recomposition, in this recomposition we lost the possibility of having a vice-presidency and the European Commissioner received a background folder which is second in order. Therefore, Portugal's influence on European construction has been reduced and has decreased considerably in relation to the past. I will finish as I began: in this report, I understand the attempt to accentuate and highlight positive aspects, but 2014 was not a good year for Europe and it was not a good year for Portugal to participate in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u237	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing this report on Portugal and the European Union at the time of probably the most dramatic crisis in the Union. And we read in the report words such as peace, justice and fundamental rights, priority for employment, European solidarity. What's the point of these words, sirs? Ladies and gentlemen? What's it worth? Oh, my God! The German newspapers today said that the governments of the smaller countries, with the Portuguese Government at the head, were the most intransigent with regard to Greece's proposals to overcome this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u239	Oh, that's a great deal of overcoming!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u240	No wonder we have already seen the Portuguese Minister of Finance walk around like a pet by Mr Schäuble in Germany. And the President of the Republic summed up, to our collective shame, this crisis, with a simple: « If Greece goes out, it was 19, it becomes 18 ». [[CDS-PP protests.]] What's this? What leaders are these? What Europe treats one of its countries as a kind of indispensable excretion in a Union that buried solidarity? What Europe is calling for rescue to plans for social devastation and economic destruction and calling for financial support for Greece — read in the report — loans whose purpose was to pay interest to the French and German banks while the people were doomed to poverty and impoverishment? What Europe is scandalizing with the Greek referendum, at the same time as 'affect' in the face of the financial coups of credit rating agencies and non-elected institutions? What Europe is raising internal colonialism, made up of prejudices and stereotypes, about the virtuosos of the North against the lazy of the South and which makes austerity its dogma, in which the only rule of democracy seems to be doing what Germany says? What Europe is born with a promise, a promise of peace and solidarity and that it has been kidnapped by Tacan and tyrannical creditors and that it is today reasserting the irresponsibility of a political elite that seems not to have any memory of what was the 20th century?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u241	Don't get into it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u242	Look, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — let's look! — when we are discussing this report, for the streets of Athens and see what has become Europe: financial blackmail and fear, especially fear, is the only argument for this Europe. This Europe has become a prison against democracy, and all words can be used, but if there is hope for the rescue of the founding values, founders! — of the European promise, of peace and solidarity, this hope rests in a word today: Oxi! Oxi is today the word that is the only hope against a Europe that is afraid that fear will end. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u243	Mr António Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I understand that there are some parties that do not feel comfortable with being European and understand that there are some parties that only know how to criticize Europe and forget that we are here today not talking about Europe but talking about Portuguese participation in Europe. That is the debate and that is the issue that matters here to restate, because we have neither the commitment nor the complex of being Syriza, we have the complex of being Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u245	They're destroying Europe! They're destroying European values! Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u246	And Portugal was in 2014 in the first line of what it was to discuss Europe. It was Portugal that put on the agenda the customs union; it was Portugal that put on the agenda the banking union; it was Portugal that put on the agenda the energy union and, therefore, it is not possible to understand how some parties are not able to recognize that it is the new paradigm of Europe, which is the new principle of geostrategic location in Portugal that can put us at the forefront of economic development and growth. But 2014 is also known for another reality: there was a new Commission, there was a new development, there is a new plan that we all share at the moment. The Juncker Plan can bring growth, we are all hoping it can bring wealth and all of this can be the first line, together with what the CDS here has also referred to, i.e. the new structural funds, to help Portugal develop in future times. It's not now, it's not in 2014, it's up to 2020, that's what's important to refocus and that's what's important to carry. We are in Europe of soul and heart, we are not like some who are only able to criticize this Europe and defend Europe from the victims, from the poor, from those who want to seek Europe's money to receive, but not to work on a joint project. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u247	There are no more entries on this point in our agenda, so we will move on to the next point, with the appreciation of petition No 252 / XII ( 2. a ) — Submitted by Maria Emília Guerreiro Neto de Sousa ( President of the Municipal Chamber of Almada ) and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to abandon the intention of building a mega terminal of containers in the village of Trafaria. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, allow me to welcome in a special way the elected local power of the Almada Council, all the elected local authority, who have been in the first hour in the fight against this absolutely disastrous measure that would be such a mega terminal of containers in the Trafaria. We welcome the intervention that the promoters of this petition, the municipality of Almada and the 11 parishes that the council had, and we do not forget the struggle of the parish in defense of this cause, as we do not forget the role of the first subscriber of the petition, then President of the City Hall of Almada, nor do we forget that in the parish of Trafaria, which this government, however, took the people away, as well as in the other municipalities, the electors and the population gave their hands and fought, side by side, against this disastrous measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u249	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u250	This was a process of civic and popular participation to all outstanding titles. The response and mobilization of the populations was decisive to the tactical retreat that the government had spent some time. The then Ministers Álvaro Santos Pereira, Miguel Relvas and company presented to the press this authentic disaster, with pump and circumstance, on Friday, except error. the following day, the Hall of the Musical Trafarian Recreation Society was small to welcome the people who moved there to express their repudiation against this attack on nature, the ordination of the territory, local, regional and national development. Here, in the Assembly of the Republic, from the very first moment we have voiced this struggle. We continue to pay attention because we know that this is not necessarily a closed subject. It is not a case arranged for a very concrete reason: because we were talking about a deep water port, which is called for such a transhipment that now appears very unlikely in the new project that the government announces. We therefore continue to make it clear — and I conclude, Mr President — that local and regional development goes through a bet in the productive sectors, in fishing, in the fishing port that we demand for that region, continues to go through sustainable, balanced and solidarity development, to bet on tourism, yes sir, but on river development as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u251	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u252	And these measures, which we continue to demand and which continue to delay, are incompatible with these disasters which have been announced and which continue to peer and look into the interests and agendas of economic power. That is why we welcome the decisive struggle of the peoples and continue to reaffirm our active solidarity for this struggle for sovereign development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u253	Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, on this petition, the autarchs of the municipality of Almada and, if I may highlight, then the President of the Chamber of Almada and then the President of the Board of Freguesia da Trafaria, for their prominent role in raising the populations around this matter. But this project, which corresponded to an illusion, corresponded to an economic tragedy, corresponded to a mistification, must be seen, today that it is apparently sunk, as a symbol of what tragedy is for the region of what have been these four years of right-wing governance. A government that managed to destroy everything that is a vision of the Setúbal Peninsula and the Setúbal district as an Atlantic facade of Europe, a government that has delayed, in four years, everything that is the links of Sines to Europe, came here to talk about mystifications, a mega port of deep waters in the Trafaria, which today continues to feed illusions, launching studies, projects, around what no longer knows whether it is a regional terminal or whether it is the mere transfer of the current terminals of Alcântara, today to the Barreiro, a day, perhaps, to Vila Franca, to Algés or to the middle of the Tejo. It is this tragedy of these four years that the illusions of Trafaria represented and that, in Setúbal as in the Country, everyone is clear that we will soon have to leave. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u255	For an intervention, Mr. João Paulo Viegas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating and congratulating the petitioners who are present here, by exercising their right to petition and thus allowing democracy to continue to be involved and with the debate of different ideas. The question that is brought to us today is directly related to the location of the new terminal of Lisbon containers. We have the notion that, at the beginning, the announcements on this subject were hasty and the time since the petition was presented to this day allowed us to have a more in-depth knowledge and the emergence of viable alternatives to the implementation of this new terminal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u257	It's worth a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u258	The Government's strategy has been clear and, as expected, the State must make decisions that can best serve the national interest. It is up to institutions such as the authorities to carry out an analysis with particular impact on social and economic policies, which have led to the evaluation of their populations. In order to defend the interest of the State, it is important to consider factors such as the value of investment, return, the confrontation between the positive and negative externalities of the investment and the contribution to the national development strategy. According to the petition and the Municipal Chamber of Almada, the interest to be safeguarded by the municipality falls on environmental preservation, which they believe is called into question, but which, as you know, is a matter previously assessed by legislative obligation. We, CDS, believe it is possible to balance all the interests involved in this discussion. However, we believe that it is legitimate for the authorities of Almada to disagree. Still, and regardless of the position of the City Council of Almada, which we respect, we believe it is very positive that authorities such as the Barreiro consider the Government's proposal to be an important national investment, with a strong impact on local development. from the point of view of the State and the interests I mentioned above, it is also positive that the investment is private and that, according to news that they have circulated, is the City Hall of Barreiro itself saying that there are at least three interested parties. We are talking about a private investment in the order of 700 million euros, which, according to a discussion organised by the Barreiro Authority, can mean up to 700 new jobs. This investment, with a minimal financial involvement by the State, will allow the generation of wealth and the creation of jobs. Having been the former president of the City Council of Lisbon, and the current Secretary-General of the PS, expressed in favour of the construction of the container terminal in the Barreiro, when he signed a protocol with the City Council of the Barreiro and the Administration of the Port of Lisbon, it would be important to realize what the Socialist Party's political position on this matter has been expressed against. Beyond the PS, the PCP also seems to speak more than one voice, because in times it said: « (...) this represents an incomprehensible duplication of means: they are two ‘Atlantic doors’,... » — referring to Sines — «... next to one another, fighting each other and seeking to supplant each other».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u259	You haven't understood yet, but I can explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u260	After all economic and environmental studies are known, we hope that this important investment can be a reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u261	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was the struggle of the people of Almada, with the autoarchs, with all the living forces, that forced the government to abandon this project. And they did so with all conviction, and well, because what was the immense design of the wall that covered the Trafaria was, as the first petitioner and president of the City Hall of Almada at the time called it, a crime of read-father. It is that they were not just the containers that were going to be installed there; there would certainly have to be ground to the railway. Therefore, I believe that the government has abandoned this project, there in the Trafaria, this wall that wanted to rise—again again, on the south bank! — because it was obliged to do so. And that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how many times they want to give the speech, it is evidence. I believe that the southern margin, like the whole country, has been whipped not only by unemployment, by low wages, by poverty, by hunger in many decades past, but also by genuine environmental crimes, practiced in several areas of the Setúbal district. Moreover, the capital always found that area to be just an area to produce, without any environmental preservation. This has happened throughout history. Therefore, it is more than natural that the suffering of those populations in relation to what they felt in the skin as environmental crimes today has an expression as great as that which happened in the municipality of Almada. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the only thing we say here, and we feel at all times in the fight against this project, is that it is really worth the people to rise up against the rulers when they want to remove what they have so precious, which is the quality of their territory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u263	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I also want, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to begin by greeting the more than 6400 subscribers of this petition, as well as the authorities of the municipality of Almada who today decided to come to the galleries to attend this discussion, live and live. If you will allow me, I will highlight in particular the presence of Mr. President of the City Council and Mr. President of the City Assembly. And I would also like to extend a very special greeting to the then President of the City Council, who was the first signatory to this petition. I also wanted to greet all those who fought, in an absolutely convincing and vehement manner, in the most diverse ways, against a project that the Government insisted on imposing with location in the municipality of Almada, the megaterminal container of Trafaria. I also want to conclude that it is really worth fighting, that when we are convinced of our reason and when our reason is the truth that is imposed, it is worth it. But it is also worth remembering what we have often heard about this megaterminal of containers by the government, particularly in parliamentary committees, where we have taken the initiative to listen to members of the government. In fact, we have heard members of the Government say vehemently that there was no alternative, that it was an inevitable, that it had not given again, that the voices could be raised more vehemently, harder, against this decision that there was no other alternative possible. They've completely failed! There was, wasn't it? There was no inevitability! So I just want to do a parallelism here: many other things that the government insists on saying are inevitable, are not inevitable at all. The government always takes as inevitability the one that is its will.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u265	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u266	I will finish, Mr. President. What we want to highlight here is that there are always alternatives. This megaterminal of containers was a disaster, had tremendous environmental impacts, not only on the estuary but also on land, and called into question a sustainable development that the chamber proposes for a whole range that needs to be re-qualified and re-enhanced economically. And that's what the government wanted to stop. It will no longer work, but what matters is that it lifts the restrictions it imposes at the time so that the municipal chamber can continue to act for its territory and population and so that the government does not continue to be a tie. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u267	Mr Bruno Vitorino has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners and the autarchs present here. With the restructuring plan for the port of Lisbon, the Government proposed Trafaria as a place to host the new container terminal. Since the beginning, the process has not been peaceful. We ourselves, PSD, had doubts about that location and therefore proposed hearing to a number of entities here in Parliament. Trafaria had a set of constraints for this project: weak accessibility; lack of area of logistical expansion and significant environmental impacts. And obviously also the opposition of the authorities. It would also have a positive impact on economic development, job creation and the resolution of some of the social problems, such as the 2nd district. the Torrão, of difficult resolution, so much so that, to date, the Authority has not yet had the capacity to resolve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u269	Not yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u270	But Almada has another vision for her territory and we will have to respect it. Hardly, a project of this size would advance without being coordinated with the authority. We always said that we should study the possibility of the Barreiro receiving a terminal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u271	Always, it's like you say!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u272	The constraints of the Trafaria, there are no in the Barreiro. Barreiro already has port activity. The territories are of the State, managed by the Bay of the Tagus. It has a logistics expansion area. It has good accessibility, including the railway. Tejo Bay has done a remarkable job in the regeneration of those territories and in the revitalization of the business park. With this government, the project Arc Ribeirinho Sul no longer sits on the real estate and has another goal: to capture companies, create wealth and jobs. Therefore, port activity fits not a glove in this new government strategy for those territories. And the President of the House, Carlos Humberto, who from here I greet, also has this vision and has seen this investment with good eyes. Therefore, the Government has already stated that if technically feasible, if there are still private investors interested in the investment, the new terminal will be located in the Barreiro. In environmental terms, you will naturally have some difficulties. But it may also be the opposite and be seen as an opportunity to continue the work of the Tejo Bay, requalification and resolution of the existing environmental liability.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u273	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u274	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. The government has moved forward with the case. The international public competition for the environmental impact study has already been launched. It was not because it was an authority managed by the PCP that stopped doing work in the Barreiro, that stopped collaborating. Together, you have found yourself and you have made this path, which will allow, I am sure, to take this investment to good port. It will be good for the Barreiro, for the region and for the country, because this represents more development, more wealth and more employment, and that is what we need. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u275	For a second speech, trusting in your power of synthesis, Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will certainly be synthetic, because this debate is revealing what, in relation to the strategic interest of the country, in terms of vision for the metropolitan area of Lisbon, for the peninsula of Setúbal, is this government. A government that betrays what is an integrated development vision, that hostiles the authorities, that burys what is a conjugated view of the Arc Ribeirinho Sul, which, while in other areas, decides to rush and run, making what is fracturing—type of TAP process, type of transport processes in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon — in this matter goes from illusion to study, and, at the end of four years, what is propaganda: Lisbon South Bay. We know what Arc Ribeirinho South is and we'll be there to defend it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u277	With no further inscriptions, the assessment of petition No 252 / XII ( 2 ) is completed. ( a). We turn to petition No 451 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Nuno Filipe Bilber ( A4 Committee of Users and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to take a decision against the introduction of tolls into A4 and recommends that the Government be a free route, together with Bill No. 1023 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption of tolls in the ex-SCUT ( BE ), in general, and draft resolution No 1567 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by not introducing tolls on the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block wishes to greet the citizens who brought this petition to debate. We do so, valuing the debate in plenary, presenting a bill that, responding to the legitimate aspirations of citizens and citizens who promoted this sub-signed, extends the assumptions to the whole country, which are clear. Do we want to benefit from the promotion of public policies by private negotiation, the abuse of those who are always in business with the state or want to defend the interests of taxpayers, territorial cohesion and the guarantee that Portugal is a country that is intended for its citizens and its citizens? The proposal presented by the Left Block answers this question, saying that we want to end this strip of PPPs, with the guarantee of private abuse of taxpayer rights, ending with this idea that ex-SCUTs should be taxed, worn, and that even where road axes, such as IP4, are destroyed, the only viable alternatives to population mobility are taxed in this case to A4. We don't accept that! In defence of the people, we want to abolish the tolls in these ways, ensuring the mobility of citizens and citizens and the freedom of all to walk through the country without being ported to pay for the abuse of the private. This is the purpose of the bill that we bring to debate, which agrees with the legitimate aspirations of the people, but which also agrees with the guarantee that the abuse of the PPP negotiation will not continue, in the future, giving advantage to those who live in this abuse, i.e. the private and the rulers who have read the State when signing these PPPs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u279	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u280	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to greet all the subscribers of the petition against the introduction of tolls in A4, submitted by the A4 Committee of Users, which sets out the reasons for this requirement, which rightly relates to the fact that the Trás-os-Montes region has been a victim for many years in a process of clear de-investment and, in particular, closure of public services of proximity which are absolutely fundamental to the people, so fundamental that their closure leads many people and families to opt to leave that region, contributing to their depopulation. Depopulation necessarily means withdrawing growth and development potential from that region, because when we close public services and when we carry certain motorways that fit into such contexts, we are withdrawing the wager in the economy and in the implementation of certain enterprises, including micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in those regions. So, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and in good Portuguese, we are implementing this region and the populations that reside in these villages, which have the right to mobility extraordinarily conditioned to a certain economic power and, as I have already said, also preventing the region from knowing other economic indicators. However, in meeting exactly what the subscribers of this petition require, the Greens decided to present a draft resolution with the same argument, with the title « for not introducing tolls on the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) », which will be voted on at the next voting session, which will take place on Friday.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u281	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members; I begin by greeting the petitioners, who bring again to this House such an important issue as that of A4, the Transmontana motorway. As you know, this is the main road axis of the entire region of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, which consists, as has already been said, mostly in the duplication of IP4 and which, being a structural work for the region at the time of the concession, aimed to reduce road sinality, travel times, create jobs and develop the region by the dynamics associated with it. It is a work with the brand of the Socialist Party and it clearly shows the difference between the governance of the Socialist Party and the governance of this majority in relation to the region of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. These last four years have been clear to see this difference, which is abissal. in the launch of the work, there were only two small pieces with tolls in the surrounding areas of Bragança and Vila Real, and there were alternatives to this route in these places. The introduction of tolls has never been planned at any other point on the transmountain highway. Now, the PSD/CDS government and the Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho, want to introduce tolls across the highway. It is not justified, it was not planned and it is inadmissible. On the one hand, the northern interior — it is important to remember — was the last region in the country to be served by highways and this was considered the highway of justice. On the other hand, the district of Vila Real and Bragança is a difficult orography territory where there are no alternative routes in conditions. Moreover, the government's public closure of decentralized services in this region, such as the courts, obliges us and the high-durans to move ever longer. Unfortunately, the regional development indicators are still far from the national and European average and 75 % of GDP, which has always been the criterion for the introduction of tolls. The recent publication by the National Institute of Statistics of the Synthetic Regional Development Index shows the strong difference between regions and the need for these less-favoured regions to be the subject of public investment in order to continue to develop. It is therefore unacceptable to introduce tolls throughout the cross-mountain motorway. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u283	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by congratulating the petitioners, whom we have had the opportunity to talk to, and say, on this matter—by whom God has sent them to warn! — which I have now heard from Mr Ivo Oliveira and which I think has just forgotten to say that the Socialist Party left seven sub-concessions made during the election period in 2008 / 2009 to start being paid in 2014, but refused to pay them. Is that the good management I was talking about, Mr. Deputies? Let me quote former Prime Minister José Socrates — and if the data is wrong and I do some demagogy here, it is not my fault, it is from where they come from. It was said that the road was the reflection of the country's solidarity with the region. I am one of those who believe that the whole country should have the same conditions of accessibility, that we must preserve the right to mobility throughout the national territory. But it is no longer true what the Prime Minister said at the time (and which, in fact, consists of a study), i.e. that this highway was self-sustainable. The problem is that every time the Socialist Party presents a study of economic viability, it is wrong right now in the first stage. The study said more: it said that this highway would bring 9000 jobs—I don't know if they already exist or are visible. But I must say that this motorway had the advantage of transforming Bragança into the nearest Portuguese district capital of any European capital and approaching Bragança do Porto, reducing the journey time of the entire transmountain population. In addition, this motorway also has advantages in terms of saving lives since, according to the study, there are at least 65 % deaths on the road. Once again I don't know whether it's true or not, but I give this number as good, which I consider positive. It is that ensuring greater attractiveness of the region, ensuring fewer deaths, i.e. increasing the protection of life, ensuring that the economy flows faster, because it approaches the populations, is a contribution that the whole country has made to that region. For me, who am a defender of the user-payer principle and who am elected by a region that has three motorways, all of them covered, I want to say to the population that the contribution they are asked for is a small contribution on tolls. There is no other way to pay a heavy invoice and a wrong account of those who made motorways when the public debt was 100 % and when the deficit was around 10 %. That, yes, was irresponsible and did not constitute a protection from those populations. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u285	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We want to begin by welcoming the 6,000 petitioners who have subscribed to the petition « Not to the tolls on A4 » through the delegation that is present in the galleries. PS, PSD and CDS, complicit in so many other things, in this matter of introducing tolls, besides accomplices, are responsible for this injustice. We want to highlight some aspects that have been highlighted by the petitioners in the text they sent to the Assembly of the Republic. The introduction of tolls in A4 will aggravate the difficulties, depopulation and desertification of the transmountain region, asymmetries in development and will have profound negative impacts on economic activity. This is for the CFP ; it is « clear how water». We also want to highlight another type of argument. It is that, indeed, there are no alternatives to A4 because it was built essentially on the plot of IP4, leaving those populations without any alternative. We would like to remember that A4 was built with Community funds practically in its entirety, so there is no legitimacy in privatizing this motorway to then collect tolls to populations If it was built with Community funds, it should be put at the service of the populations and not of the profits of dealers who have tolls and with the multi-millionaire business. Finally, we want to remember that the PSD and CDS, but also the PS government, have closed down numerous public services in the trans-mountain region — schools, health institutions, education, justice, courts, etc. — always on the excuse that A4 would facilitate mobility. The excuse was used for now to introduce tolls and make it difficult to access health and education services, compromising the mobility of populations. The PCP will vote in favour of the draft resolution of the Green Party and we want to remember that the PCP has repeatedly presented bills to revoke the tolls in our country's former SCUTs, which were subsequently rejected by PS, PSD and CDS-PP. Therefore, the appeal we make to populations is that, in addition to fighting, it is time to punish those who govern our country and so mistreat the transmountain region. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u287	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Cavalleiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, the approximately 6,000 subscribers of this petition, and to say that we understand their intentions. On the subject of the petition, we defend the same principle as we always stand for, but the Government has already stated that by the end of this legislature it does not intend to make any changes to the issue of tolls anywhere. at this moment that's what we're glad to say. The truth is that, at the blight of this petition, the Left Block has assigned a bill for all SCUTs. Now, I would like the Left Block to explain to us once and for all — if we were to add all the proposals that are put forward by the leftmost parties in this Parliament, there was no budget coming, two or three were necessary! — how you paid some of the responsibilities we have! What you have to tell us is how you pay, it's not how you discount, it's not how you let it go. That's all we want to know. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u289	They didn't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u290	I would also like to tell the Socialist Party that it is true that this highway is a mark of the PS, but the invoice, once again, is ours. We own the bill. To decide to do is very easy, to decide who pays means to be much more responsible and to make decisions is much more important and implies greater responsibility. The honourable Member also said that the PSD said it was going to pay tolls, but Prime Minister José Socrates also said in Bragança that he was going to pay tolls — I just wanted to record that they also said so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On this subject, the PSD has the same principles. What we know today — and it was said by UTAU days ago — is that PPPs cost us EUR 3.6 million a day. It is true that, after negotiations, we have saved 300 million, but it is still a big and heavy bill. It is true that we have already made many changes, that we have already created principles of exemptions in the system, that there is still more to do, but we also want the principle of sustainability. We only want to spend what we can afford and from this principle we do not abdicate, not today, not at the time of elections, not ever. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u291	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so we move on to the next item on our agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 440 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Submitted by Andreia Sofia dos Santos Nunes ( Group of Mothers Fighting Hearts and Great Hearts) and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the return of heart operations, with national and vital agreement, to the Hospital of the Portuguese Red Cross ( HCVP ). For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Conceição Caldeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the almost 8,000 citizens who have subscribed to petition No. 440 / XII and who have addressed the Assembly of the Republic bringing to us a question of indisputable relevance, as is the request for the return of heart operations to the Hospital of the Red Cross. Basically, petitioners intend to maintain the agreement between the National Health Service ( SNS ) and the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital in the sense of the latter to continue to ensure the initial and sequential treatment of children with congenital and sequential heart disease. This sequential treatment is particularly relevant in that many children operated at the Hospital da Cruz Red can continue to be followed by teams of the same Hospital, which is justified in that unfortunately, not rare, suffer from pathologies that require several surgical interventions. It is worth noting that this was the main concern expressed by the petitioners during the hearing held in committee. I also stress that the Hospital da Cruz Red is located in the group of hospitals that perform interventions with greater complexity and lower mortality rate, presenting, according to international data, on a comparable basis, an average mortality rate significantly lower than European. Having said that, and respecting the views of the petitioners, to whom once again I express solidarity, it remains true that the reason that led to the failure to renew the existing agreement with the Portuguese Red Cross was due to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors concerning cooperation agreements, in order to be compulsory to carry out — and I quote — "cost-benefit analysis studies in the macroeconomic/social/collectivity perspective", as well as to raise the capacity installed in the specialities covered by the cooperation agreements with the Red Cross in order to reassess the need for its celebration before it occurs. In fact, the Court of Auditors has even considered that the SNS has capacity installed in cardiothoracic surgery. We are therefore faced with a reality which, as much as we follow the concerns and expectations of the petitioners, cannot and should not be ignored. Despite this conditioning, it should be clarified that the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley ( ARSLVT ) implemented a procedure to ensure that patients already referred to by the SNS for the Red Cross did not have to restart the new process, since they had not been subject to intervention because of the lapse of the cooperation agreement. The Government was therefore sensitive to this serious problem and ensured that the patients already referred to by the National Health Service for the Red Cross Hospital should not return to the process of marking consultation with the health centre. Finally, the PSD hopes that this decision may have reduced any inconveniences and suffering caused by the so-called judicial intervention to patients and their family members. I therefore end by thanking the petitioners for the genuine exercise of citizenship and expressing our understanding of the concern that brought the debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u293	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Let us begin our intervention by greeting the more than 7000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition. We would like to appeal to the fact that the content of this petition must force us all to reflect on the reasons that led to this situation. What are the reasons why Portuguese children who were born with congenital heart disease were not subject to surgical intervention and follow-up in the National Health Service? We believe that one of the reasons is that successive governments, including the current government, have a policy of de-investment in the National Health Service, particularly through systematic and continuous cuts in the SNS budget, which adds to the social and professional non-revaluement of health professionals. This devaluation leads to the exit of excellent SNS professionals. But there are other reasons, such as the concentration and fusion of services and valences, as well as the construction of hospital centers. These are the reasons why this situation is being taken place. We defend that it is up to the National Health Service to respond to the level of care delivery; We defend, only in situations where there is no response capacity in the SNS, that the State should resort to complementarity in the provision of health care; We have defended and made proposals for the National Health Service to be equipped with financial and human resources to give full response to all clinical problems and diseases affecting users; We have defended and presented proposals aimed at strengthening the training of health professionals for the increase of research in the National Health Service, an investigation that must be done by their professionals and that must be at the service of the SNS and its improvement; We defend and have made proposals for investment in equipment to enable them to provide quality and safety care to users. I conclude by reaffirming our position in defense of the National Service of Universal Health, general and free, as well as in defense of the provision of health care be carried out in the SNS and the situations of complementarity are an exception and not a rule. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u295	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming on my behalf and on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group the nearly 8,000 citizens who have subscribed to this petition in a participatory act of citizenship which we have obviously appreciated very much. — and has already been mentioned in detail on the subject - the subscribers express themselves for the return of heart operations with the national and vital agreement with the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital. They allege the petitioners that the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital has a cardiovascular service of excellence, being one of the best in Europe in pediatric heart surgery. For this reason, they feel it is essential that all children with congenital or acquired heart disease can continue to be treated and followed in this hospital, thus ensuring them a treatment that they understand fundamental to preserve their life and the quality of their life. It should be clarified that, in fact, the agreement with the Portuguese Red Cross which covered this type of surgical intervention was not renewed by the Court of Auditors' clear recommendation, in order to make it compulsory to carry out cost-benefit analysis studies in the macroeconomic, social and collective perspective and to carry out the sustainability and efficiency of the National Health Service, which we all value, the raising of the capacity installed in the SNS. Despite the argument presented by ARSLVT, the Court of Auditors considered that this installed capacity exists in the SNS within the framework of cardiothoracic surgery. Still, as has already been clarified here, the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley ensured that the patients previously referred to by the National Health Service for the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital do not have to return to the consultation marking lists at their respective health center, thus preserving the continuity of care at the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital is not at stake and is recognized in this area. It is true that the quality and excellence of the health services of the SNS is real and unquestionable, including in the area of cardiothoracic surgery. The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP believes that, as the necessary care is ensured in good time, with quality and safety, the installed capacities of the National Health Service should be effectively used and not under-utilized; it believes that cooperation agreements must be used, whether with the social and cooperative sector or with the private sector, only when these guarantees are not provided by the National Health Service ; and it also believes that the recommendations of the Court of Auditors must be respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u297	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u298	I will finish, Mr. President. Having said this, and ending, I wanted to say that for us it is clear that the National Health Service to be sustainable, efficient and maintain good quality care standards must be managed with the utmost rigour and meet the needs of all Portuguese, with a balanced and harmonised response. We will continue to fight for this, particularly when the health of children is at stake. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u299	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group welcomes the thousands of citizens and citizens who addressed the Assembly of the Republic in the exercise of the right to petition, bringing a problem that they consider very important and for which the Left Block has the proper understanding, because we understand that there are parents and mothers who want the best health care for their children. This issue, however, has to do with the cooperation agreement concluded between the State and the Portuguese Red Cross. It happens, as surely Mr. Members and Members of Parliament are reminded that this agreement has been audited. The Left Block has come to propose, and was approved by this Assembly of the Republic, a recommendation to the Government to conduct an audit by the Court of Auditors to the cooperation agreement concluded between the Portuguese State, the Government, the Regional Health Administration and the Hospital of the Red Cross so that the situations that have come to the public were fully clarified and raised a serious set of concerns. Having completed all this procedure and through the recommendations of the Court of Auditors, this agreement was concluded. It was in fact, as has already been said several times, that all children who had started their treatment at Red Cross Hospital could continue to do so. And that is an important fact, because continuity in the provision of care needs to be guarded. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by giving me the words of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, it is true that there is installed in the National Health Service a capacity of excellence in this area too. And here we have to deal mainly with the defence of the National Health Service, and therefore we have not hesitated nor stopped raising our voice when it is necessary to require the Government to strengthen the financial and professional resources so that this capacity of excellence is a reality for all Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u301	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the petitioners present in the galleries. The subject of this petition is of particular sensitivity, the terms of it are clear—by the return of heart operations, with national and vital agreement, with the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital — and the personal examples and testimonies they presented to us, at the time of the hearing at the Commission, were also well elucidating the importance and depth of this subject. We agree that the cardiovascular service of the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital is referred to as excellence, being located in the group of hospitals that perform interventions with greater complexity and lower mortality rate, presenting, on a comparable basis, an average mortality rate significantly lower than European, according to international studies of high importance. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that there are several hundred children who have been operated and are being followed by the teams of the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital, a situation which was well expressed by the petitioners at the hearing held at the Commission headquarters at the beginning of this month. For the Socialist Party the primacy of public services is unquestionable. We defend that the hospital services of the National Health Service should be able to treat all patients, including the most complex cases, such as those covered by this petition. We do not underestimate the particular problem of these children who lack specialized answers and do not underestimate the concern of so many families, who naturally defend the best for their children, especially when they see their lives in danger. the information obtained through consultation with the Government results that the existing agreement with the Portuguese Red Cross has not been renewed, following the recommendations that the Court of Auditors has addressed to the Ministry of Health and the Regional Administration of Health of Lisbon and Tejo Valley in order to prepare studies of cost-benefit analysis in macroeconomic, social and collective views and to avoid the assumption of costs within the framework of the cooperation agreement when there is installed capacity in the National Health Service. It should also be taken into account, according to the petition report, that a procedure was implemented to ensure that patients already referred to by the SNS for the Portuguese Red Cross did not have to return to the consultation process with the health centre — this is an important recommendation that should be taken into account. Our position is always a safeguard and defense of the SNS for all, universal, general and trendily free. It is also necessary to follow the recommendations of the Court of Auditors and to safeguard the right to good health for all, including, of course, these users, especially children. We therefore recommend that the Government pay particular attention to this subject, even more so, and in particular to this Government, which does not generally put the user first in its list of priorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u303	Mrs. Members, let us move to the next item on the agenda, which consists of the joint debate on petition No 437 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Movement of Public Services Users ( MUSP), protesting against the privatization of the public hospital in Cantanhede and maintenance in the SNS, and draft resolutions 1271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of Cantanhede hospital within the SNS and effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their functioning ( PCP ), 1560/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( BE ) and 1566 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( The Greens). To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party would like to welcome the petitioners who subscribed to this petition and dynamized it in defense of the maintenance of the public management of the hospital in Cantanhede within the National Health Service. The hospital in Cantanhede responds to a population of about 60 000 users of the municipality of Cantanhede, part of the municipality of Mira and a parish of Montemor-o-O-Velho. In 2007 the former Government of the Socialist Party closed down the urgency of this hospital unit, although public investments of more than EUR 3,7 million have subsequently been strengthened. The CFP believes that it is relevant, timely and makes sense the concern of petitioners, because the right to health will be guaranteed in full only to all users when taken directly by public health institutions integrated in the National Health Service. Only the public management of hospitals integrated into the SNS meets the constitutional principles, namely the universality and quality of health care, regardless of the social and economic conditions of the users. Therefore, the draft resolution presented by the CFP, and which is currently under discussion, recommends to the Government: the maintenance of the Cantanhede hospital under fully public management; the maintenance of all the valences currently assured and which can be strengthened in the face of the needs of health care to populations; the effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of the hospital; and that proceed immediately to the opening of the emergency 24 hours a day during all days of the week. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u305	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to greet the petitioners and the petitioners, more than 5000, who bring to this House of the Republic the claim of maintaining the public management of the hospital in Cantanhede and also the concern about the future of the provision of health care, in particular the response to 60 000 people, who become 80 000 in the summer period. This is the central concern of these petitioners, The Left Block has come to pronounce itself against the transfer of SNS hospitals to mercy. This is another situation equal to so many others and it is another situation in which the State has invested millions of euros, more than EUR 3, 5 million in this hospital for now to deliver it to mercy. It seems completely unacceptable to us because, on the one hand, it does not care about the interests of the State in the public investment that has been made, and on the other hand, it does not guarantee the continuity of the provision of health care to this population. This is another example of what has been a little over the country with intransparent processes, because not all information on these « transfers » is given. The Left Block therefore once again recommends that the Government suspend this process. We understand that everything that is public must be managed by the public and that what is private must be private to manage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u307	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Movement of Public Service Users (MUSP), which has stimulated this petition, signed by more than 5000 citizens, in defense of the public hospital in Cantanhede. The Greens, because of this petition and what it requests from the Assembly of the Republic, because it calls for action to the Assembly of the Republic, presented a draft resolution that meets the claim of the petition. What's going on? What happens is that in 2007, at the time of a Government of the Socialist Party, this hospital saw the closure of the emergencies, a situation that remains until today. As is to calculate, this was extraordinarily harmful to the populations and led, including, to the closure of other health units in the region, to a concentration of users at the University Hospital of Coimbra Hospital, significantly weakening access to health and the conditions of access to the health of the populations. However, this hospital was subject to an investment of more than EUR 3, EUR 5 million in works to benefit the building and even increased the response to an extended set of valences. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this with the pre-announcement of the intention to privatize the hospital, i.e., it ceases to have a public character and becomes private. Moreover, in the relationship of public hospitals, this Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital disappears from the front page No 82 / 2014. It is against the privatization of the hospital and in favour of the guarantee of its public management that petitioners come to the Assembly of the Republic. in this sense, what The Greens propose, and which will be voted on next Friday, is to ensure the valences and services provided to the population by this hospital; to maintain the hospital of Cantanhede in the public sphere and integrated in the SNS ; to hire health professionals in a number appropriate to their needs, opening up competition for their hiring and integration in the career; to reopen the emergencies from 0 to 24 hours ; and finally to promote the active involvement and participation of the autarchic bodies in any process of reorganization of the hospital network because they are, of course, the most knowledgeable and neighbouring bodies of the territory and the needs of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u309	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On my behalf and on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I greet the 5076 citizens who have exercised the right to petition in their defence of what they consider to be of their own interest and of the general interest, in a civic and democratic attitude that is always to be praised. in the petition in defense of the public hospital of Cantanhede the subscribers defend the maintenance of this hospital in the public network of hospitals of the SNS, out of respect, say, to the constitutional precept that health is a universal, general and tendentially free right. The PCP Parliamentary Group has taken advantage of the opportunity and has manifested itself against a possible return. This is a return from this hospital to Mercy, a situation that they say constitutes a real privatization. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 63. the, as well as the principles enshrined in the Social Action subsystem, defined in Law No. 4 / 2007 of 16 January, recognize the strategic importance of the social and solidarity sector as well as the need to be supported and monitored by the State, with a view to achieving the objectives of social solidarity enshrined in the Constitution. I think it is important, then, to clarify that Mercy is not part of the private health sector; it is an integral part of a social sector which, together with the public and private sectors, form the three foundations of the Portuguese health system, which is intended to be complementary, not only public, and, as determined by our constitution, general, universal and tendentially free. A second clarification is due: if it is true that the hospital in Cantanhede is, as you know, of the cooperation commitment for the years 2015 - 2016, signed between the Government, the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, it is no less certain that this commitment will only be realized—and I repeat—if only ensure that the assumptions inherent in the agreement will be met, i.e. the maintenance or extension of the care profile already present in the hospital and the primacy of the rights of workers and their individual wills. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Government is, above all, responsible for the best interests of citizens, taking the necessary measures to ensure them, always and in any circumstances, timely access to health care of proximity and quality. The public interest and sustainability of the SNS are undoubtedly the pillars in which the policies of this government are based. I am not the only one who says it; it is the results that demonstrate it and are the most respected and credible independent internal and external entities that testify to it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u311	For an intervention, Mr Mário Ruivo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An initial greeting to the more than 5000 subscribers of this petition in defense of the hospital of Cantanhede, Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital, which we are now discussing in the plenary. They are 5000 subscribers, representing many others, who have defended and defend the maintenance of the Cantanhede hospital in the national health system and respect for the constitutional precept of health recognition as a universal right. There are several legitimate reasons for petitioners, since the strategic importance of the hospital in Cantanhede in access to the health of the population of that municipality, but also of the neighbouring municipalities such as Mira and part of the municipality of Montemor-o-Velho. We know well how difficult and costly it is for an economically poor population, and most of them even rural, to have to bear the costs of travel to the hospital centre in Coimbra, especially when there are few, or practically non-existent, public transport. But more difficult and unjustifiable is to require the relocation of these users to a hospital such as the hospital centre of the University of Coimbra where the times of care in emergencies are already severe and difficult, thus also exacerbating the time of stay in this emergency service, as is not legitimate, in a system that is recognized in the National Health Service tend to be free and universal, which accentuates the requirement of users have repeatedly to bear costs with multiple diagnostic tests, the result of the lack of response of the public sector. As it would be, and it would certainly be very strange for the State to have borne large sums of money in works to benefit from this equipment, this hospital building, for now to hand it over to its owner, that is, to the Holy House of Mercy of Cantanhede. The Minister has already assumed his intention to transfer the hospital to the mercy of Cantanhede, but he has done so against what is the will of the Authority itself and the people. We understand that this measure penalizes the populations and users themselves of the National Health Service and therefore deserves our rejection. For this reason, we advocate the maintenance of the public management of the hospital in Cantanhede, the maintenance of existing valences and the respect for the constitutional precept that recognizes health as a universal, general and trendly free right, thus following the demands of professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u313	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 5,000 petitioners, naturally thanking the concern they bring us here, which is also our concern, which is to safeguard the interests of the people. That is precisely what is at stake here. It is not a question of privatization, it is a question of returning to Mercy something that was already yours, and it is also a matter that is not yet decided. But most importantly, the interest of people is no longer guaranteed by the fact that they are public. There are services, there are private bodies that provide, always and well, public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u315	You have to pay well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u316	There are, in fact, institutions that are examples of what I am saying and I give a concrete example: the Anadia Hospital was handed over to Mercy about six months ago and it is already possible to make a balance sheet for these six months and the balance sheet is positive. The hospital has not lost capacity, has opened new valences, has made investments and has open consultations seven days a week until 22 hours. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u317	And, more, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there were no layoffs. They heard: there were no layoffs! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u318	Employees who wanted to stay, remained in the hospital maintaining ties to the State ; employees who wanted to leave remain integrated into other State services. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the matter here? Everything is summed up in a very simple thing: nothing is decided! Then there is no reason for concern; populations, if there is a possible transfer, will not be at risk, health care will not be reduced, quality service remains and that is what matters. A final note to reply to Mr Mário Ruivo: the Authority is not against, since this service is ensured. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u319	For a second and very brief intervention, given the time available, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u320	Mr President, very briefly, because we are coming to the end of the legislature and this has sometimes been dealt with, I would like to tell you. Mr Paulo Almeida and Mr Nilza de Sena: point 1, there is no return to mercy. First, because nothing was taken from them, according to why the state paid rent for the building. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u321	Secondly, a hospital is not a building — Mr. Paulo Almeida has Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto with her side to explain — it is much more than that, it is the professionals, it is the equipment, it is all that. Now the question has to be asked: will mercy return the three, five million that the State has invested there? He will no longer return, it is only up to the state. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, serious and they assume once and for all what is going on. It is not worth mixing the private, the social, the public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u322	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u323	...we're talking about the public and you're withdrawing the public to give the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u324	For a quick intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the response given by the Ministry of Health to this petition it is stated that the hospital in Cantanhede is one of the hospitals likely to be covered in article 13. The Law Decree. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when this government says it's susceptible, we already know what the government wants to do. The truth is that the investment was public, it was EUR 3, EUR 7 million, and the benefit is for Mercy, it is not for the users of the services that are provided by this hospital. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that health must be treated as a right and not as a business, and it is even interesting that you are. Members elected by the circle of Coimbra...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u326	It's me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u327	... nothing has been said about the promiscuity that exists in the district, especially in Coimbra, between the National Health Service and the IDEALMED Clinic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u328	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u329	... that this government does nothing about this nor does it answer the questions of the Assembly of the Republic which denounces the businesses that gravitate around health and that make there private interests to benefit from the dismantling of the National Health Service. from the PCP, we do not compact with these businesses, because health is a right is not a business for the private. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u330	Mrs. Members, we move on to the next point in our agenda with a view to petition No 74 / XI ( 1 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Hélio Francisco Pires Sales and others, asking the national and regional political authorities, within their competences, to do everything within their power to introduce amendments to the labour agreement which safeguard the rights and interests of Portuguese workers at the Lajes Base. Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition has already been carried out a few years ago in the House and refers to a problem which I would say has been overcome, but has not been overcome, since this petition concerns the failure to comply with the labour agreement on the basis of the Lajes by the US authorities, a problem for which we have been alerted several times, because indeed the relations between the US authorities and the workers of the Lajes Base have always been marked by unilaterality. In other words, even though there are agreements signed, and in particular there is an existing labour agreement, the US authorities have always interpreted the interpretation that they have very well understood about that labour agreement and have never complied with essential clauses of that agreement, namely that the wage update should be carried out through a wage survey on the third island, so that their updates were made on the basis of the results of that survey that had to do with the evolution of wage level on the island. What the US authorities have done was simply to decide unilaterally not to implement the labour agreement and hence the reason for this petition. What happens is that, in the face of such a situation, the Portuguese Government, instead of claiming the application of the labour agreement, agreed with the US authorities to eliminate the labour agreement and to allow labour relations from that point on to be regulated, uniquely and exclusively, by the unilateral will of the US authorities. That is why I said that this problem has not been solved, that is, it has not been resolved in a manner that respects the rights of workers at the Lajes Base. Of course, the evolution that has taken place after this has been extremely worrying to those workers whose jobs, in addition to having been reduced over the past few years, are now seriously threatened, with consequences that are extremely serious from the social point of view for the Third Island and for the Autonomous Region of Azores, consequences that are already effectively making themselves feel in that region, demanding that there be both the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u332	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u333	... special attention to the creation of alternatives to enable the Third Island economy to have conditions of development and sustainability irrespective of the position of the US authorities in relation to the Lajes Base. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u334	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Enes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the subscribers who have sent this petition to us for a few years and for this reason its content is obviously exceeded in some respects due to the position taken by the United States of America to make a reduction in the functions and effectiveness of the Lajes Base. The unanimity that existed in this House to express our concern with the United States over the negative consequences of the position assumed cannot lead us to forget what has been done internally by the Portuguese Government and by the majority who support it when they have rejected an economic revitalization programme for the Third Island. The Government itself went further when it despised studies that had been done, including by American entities, which made the diagnosis of the situation. To postpone solutions, which all claim as urgent, the Government has decided to set up a working group to carry out new studies. The months have passed and only now are known the conclusions of this study. According to today's press, the regional government refuses to sign the document because the Government of the Republic does not undertake any commitment to minimize the negative impact of the American decision. The Government does not commit itself to any concrete action programme, nor does it even intend to negotiate with the United States or the European Union. In the face of the criticisms that have been made, the Secretary of State for Defence said that the study is within the timing itself. This timing may be that of the government but it is not the timing that responds to the needs of the Azorians. In view of the behaviour of the Government of the Republic, the obvious conclusion that any citizen withdraws is that he has never been in solidarity with the outsiders in particular, and the Azorians in general. And the majority do not argue that this working group is a member of the Azores Government. It should be clarified that the regional government has been called upon only twice to participate in the meetings of that working group and no further clarification or information has been requested. The responsibility therefore rests solely with the Government of the Republic, as it has adjourned...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u336	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u337	... in addition to the forthcoming elections the solution of urgent problems. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Azorians will be able to give the right answer when they are summoned to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u338	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the 4398 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and also refer to the patience they have had because this petition has already been several years old, came from the end of the previous legislature in early 2011, and is discussed at the last legislative session of this legislature. It should therefore be stressed here that this is not traditional, but this must be mentioned. Therefore, part of what is mentioned in the petition itself is no longer right, because it is related to strengthening labour rights in a framework where the United States was still present, with clear guidelines for that same presence, and meanwhile the situation has evolved, as we know, in the new options of the Obama administration. I like to mention this because often the opposition, particularly the Socialist Party, likes to criticize the government on this issue of the Lajes Base, but it seems to forget that the main responsibility is the US Government, which has made different options in strategic terms. This is indisputable and unforgettable, just read all the documentation that is at the U.S. Congress and the works that the Pentagon sends to the American Congress itself to support these options. This partial withdrawal of Americans from the European continent does not occur only in Portugal, but has also occurred in other countries, although it has been strengthened in other countries. So the Portuguese case is not exclusive and trying to forget this is something absolutely aberrant. But thanks to God, this is also creating divisions in the U.S. Congress itself, because not only congressmen of Portuguese and Azorian origin are defending the maintenance of this important basis for the United States effort, but also in the Obama administration itself there are different voices and different ideas on this matter. So forgetting this is actually forgetting the main aspect of this relationship. Another aspect which is important, in my opinion, is that of the union which this brought in this Parliament, which is not less strange: how did the presence of an American military base unite Parliament in the same petition, especially the left parties, who are in front of me, who have constant criticisms of the presence of Portugal in NATO itself and the American bases in Europe? Oh, my God! Suddenly, they turn,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u340	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u341	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, all of a sudden, they become an argument, so a little 'couse' — it is true! — but, finally, we must understand why we are close to elections and, in this respect, everything can justify certain arguments. Therefore, Mr President, and I conclude by adopting the resolution, Parliament expressed its unanimous concern about this issue, in order to find mechanisms to ensure at least a partial presence of Americans in the Base, an important military presence, and also to ensure, on the other hand, of course, in a certain way, compensation for the region, in particular the Third Island and the two municipalities involved, which need policies to help them recover. This concern of Parliament, unanimously expressed, has already been approved here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u342	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Greeting the petitioners and also their patience, as has already been mentioned here, because this petition entered Parliament on 24 June 2010 exactly four years ago. The questions that were raised at the time were different from those that are being raised today — it is true! — but I would say that the main responsibility for the lives of Portuguese workers is the Portuguese Government and it was the Portuguese Government that has always maintained a position of submission to the United States of America and has manifested its great inability to negotiate or renegotiate with them the labour agreement. So it's not worth it, now, to take the blame between Obama or Republicans or anything else, because here, specifically, the Portuguese government has its responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u344	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u345	...and you mustn't take them off. It is a fact that today the situation is even worse because at the time the workers claimed compliance with the agreement and the greater benefits of this agreement and today they are dismissed. There have already been 2000 redundancies of workers with indirect jobs and there are other workers of direct jobs in total redundancies, which has meant, and this Parliament has already discussed enough this issue, an asphyxiation of the Third Island and its economy. It is a fact that, in March, this House achieved a consensus in the adoption of a resolution calling on the Portuguese Government to in fact defend the Azores, the Third Island, and demand the fair compensations of those who for decades denounced that island. This was the meaning of the Left Block's support for this decision, regardless of whether or not it will continue to consider that NATO has not done so, does not do or will do good to anyone. The example of the Azores is a small but very illustrative evidence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u346	Mr Joaquim Ponte also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The present petition is indeed five years old, but the time that has passed and the circumstances that have happened make the situation that has been created, the motivation of the petitioners, in my perspective and in the perspective of my parliamentary group, not completely lost its opportunity. You may have lost your priority. Today, those who know the reality that lives at the Lajes Base know that the priority is not exactly what is stated in the petition that, five years ago, was delivered in this Assembly of the Republic ; the priorities today, at the Lajes Base, are essentially two: maintaining the largest number of jobs at that Base for Portuguese workers and creating the best possible conditions for those who voluntarily intend to retire, making these jobs available for workers' reform not extinct and constitute professional exits for many young people who, at the Lajes Base, found a decent job and a future for their lives and their families. These are, in our view, the greater concerns that governments — Regional and Republic governments — and the other forces must have in relation to the future of the Lajes Base, and it is in these objectives that we should focus on those who really want to solve the issue of Lajes Base with seriousness and commitment without demagogy and without prejudging the election campaign and party policies on a serious problem that lives on the Third Island. In this regard, I would, in fact, like to say that yesterday, in this House of the Republic, it was somehow comforting and comes to the meeting of the petitioners of five years ago, the communication which was made here by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who pointed out, at a certain point in his speech, among other things—and some positive ones, which have been communicated to us, already agreed at the last meeting of the Permanent Bilateral Commission between Portugal and the United States of America, with results achieved—that it was possible for Americans, contrary to what has happened so far, to agree to open a process of review of the cooperation and defence agreement. It is precisely in this review of the cooperation and defence agreement that many of the claims that were part of the petition here under consideration, such as the minimum share of Portuguese employees for the labour quota, the deadlines for conflict resolution, the subsidiarity of Portuguese legislation and the application of wage increases, can be included if this process of revision of the agreement is open, as it is now expected that it will happen. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u348	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers on this point, and the debate on petition No 74 / XI is therefore closed ( 1 ). ( a). We turn to petition No 487 / XII ( 4. (a ) — Submitted by Duarte Alvelos Bénard da Costa et al., asking the Assembly of the Republic for tolerance for the non-use of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement in national examinations. For an intervention, Mr Carlos Enes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, who have brought to this plenary a subject that has been discussed here at various times. Even in this legislature, a Working Group was established to follow up the application of the Orthographic Agreement which worked hard, receiving oral and written contributions from many personalities and institutions. The votes in this plenary were in favour of the application of the Orthographic Agreement, by a large majority, including the amending protocols that followed. The implementation of the Agreement has been carried out in a smooth transition, fulfilling what had been planned. The great concern was focused on basic and secondary education and everything has flown within normality. Still this year, at the time of the examinations just carried out, it was found that the content of this petition was not even the target of any repair by the tens of students who spoke in the media. If, at the level of our country, the journey has been made without any surprises, new data have recently emerged that demonstrate the commitment of other countries to continue the journey. The Common Orthographic Vocabulary ( VOC ) platform, run by a large team with experts from all countries, was formally approved and assumed by the CPLP, in a joint statement at the Summit of Heads of State and Government, in Díli, in July 2014, being publicly presented at the CPLP on 19 February 2015. The National Orthographic Vocabularys (VON), in number of five ( Portugal, Brazil, Cape Verde, Timor-Leste and Mozambique ), will be launched on the platform this month, systematic the rules as agreed by the participating countries. In Mozambique, the issue of ratification in Parliament seems to have been unlocked, which will be followed by implementation in the same country. Angola will be the only country that has not yet ratified, but, as far as we know, convened a session on the Orthographic Agreement for October this year. Moreover: in Brazil, for example, the transition period ends on 31 December of this year, but the Orthographic Agreement has been compulsory for years in all school exams, without notice of any problem. In Cape Verde, it will be applied this year in 1. o is 2. the years of schooling. at the meeting of the last Scientific Council of the International Institute of Portuguese Language ( ILP ), which is an organ of the CPLP, the Orthographic Agreement was no longer under discussion and the concerns were channelled to future projects built on the basis of their existence. As can be seen, the Ortographic Agreement is a reality in Portuguese-speaking countries. It is our obligation to monitor the evolution of this whole process so that the objectives which guided it can be achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u350	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners and dynamizers of this petition. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP was the only party that did not vote in favour of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement and at the time expressed critical doubts and fabric, doubts and criticisms that remained. Today we are still unaware of the impact of the introduction of the Orthographic Agreement, since the resolution of this House, determining the follow-up to the implementation of the new Agreement, has never been effectively implemented. In February 2014 the CFP presented in this House a draft resolution proposing: to establish as the basis of an agreement the need for subscription by all the countries of the CPLP ; to establish an institute for the Portuguese language, with the participation of the scientific community of the language, with the means necessary to fulfil its role and for its constitution as a language authority, in conjunction with the Lisbon Academy of Sciences ; to ensure the participation of the academic and literary communities in the definition of objectives and principles of departure for a new negotiation with the other countries, through the said institute; to extend the transitional period of the Agreement until 31 December 2016 and, by the end of this period, if it has not been guaranteed, at the diplomatic level and involving competent entities (such as the language institute ), an agreement for all to accept and a proposal for a common spelling vocabulary, the disengagement of Portugal from the Ortographic Agreement. PSD, PS and CDS voted against these proposals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We follow the concerns of the petitioners, understanding that it is unacceptable that students now going to the national examination may be harmed, since their process of learning writing, in particular 1. the cycle was in the light of the writing standards prior to the Orthographic Agreement, with the changes introduced years later, during their school course, and already with the written essentially consolidated. Thus, we do not oppose corrective tolerance for national examinations, claimed by the petitioners. And, on this subject, it is still important to talk about the preponderance of external evaluation and the devaluation of continuous evaluation, placing on the national examinations a decisive weight for the future of students and for the one who will be their way of life. The « acute examination », which has marked the educational policies of successive governments, depositing in the national examinations the alpha and omega of the evaluation, is not disconnected from the one that is an objective of electing access to higher education, operating the exams as an instrument of elimination, since on them it depends the calculation of the final average and the ordination of candidates to higher education. It adds tremendous pressure on students, who see the importance of all their work done over the various school years diminished. The PCP reaffirms as fundamental to the pedagogical and teaching-learning process the appreciation of the continuous evaluation, and should be considered for evaluation all moments of participation of students in the construction and consolidation of their knowledge, as well as their individual characteristics and their specificities. Continuous evaluation and its appreciation for the purposes of access to higher education are instruments for the construction of public school as a space for overcoming economic, social and cultural inequalities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u352	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u353	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, a special compliment to the petitioners, in this exercise of a civic right, who always, obviously, fulfils. The Orthographic Agreement has always generated controversy and heated discussions over the years. Our conviction, however, is that the starting point for the debate should not be the agreement or disagreement with the 1990 Ortographic Agreement. This debate, we all understand, is endless. Even among us, at this CDS bench, the issue was never consensual. And at the vote in 2008 of the Socialist Government's motion for a resolution, which validated the Second Amending Protocol to the Portuguese-language Orthographic Agreement, there were here votes in favour, abstentions and votes against. We therefore consider that we are in a privileged position to understand the various positions and passions that are at stake. But, even more fundamental, we also learn that the only possible starting point for the political debate on this issue is institutional respect for decisions taken democratically and that they have been making their way and their way, implementing themselves. Therefore, due to institutional respect for this decision, it is important to make a political framework of what was the procedure of the Ortographic Agreement. This new agreement was signed in Lisbon, as we well know in 1990 to unify the spelling of the general vocabulary of the Portuguese language, by the Academy of Sciences of Lisbon, the Brazilian Academy of Letters and by representatives of the countries of Angola, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique and São Tomé and Príncipe. It was approved by Portugal in 1991. It is true that it did not enter into force immediately and that it had successive amendments. With the Second Amending Protocol to the Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement, the entry of East Timor was also allowed. Brazil ratified this Second Protocol in October 2004, Cape Verde in April 2005 and Sao Tome and Principe in December 2006. The Portuguese Language Orthographic Agreement entered into force internationally in January 2007. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] In Portugal, the Orthographic Agreement entered into force in 2009, with a transitional period defined by May 2015. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The story is this. It's long, it's got more problems, it's true, it's made of high and low and almost impossible unanimitys. however, there is something that can never be forgotten: this process has always been conducted democratically.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u354	“Democratic ”? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u355	Portugal signed and ratified, successively, all protocols and now saw the transition period completed last May. We agree with it or not, there is no denying this whole process, ratified by this Parliament in various phases. In this way and in the name of institutional and even democratic coherence, we do not believe that creating an exception now in the examinations is a just decision. The warnings of the Ministry of Education were made early, the national transition of the Orthographic Agreement was concluded, the teachers prepared the students for the new spelling. In addition, we have the public guarantee of the Ministry of Education that the impact of orthographic issues on the evaluation of national examinations will be merely residual.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u356	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u357	So — in conclusion, Mr President — we believe that accepting an exception today would be to call into question a whole democratic journey and to deny a path which, whether we agree or not, has been successfully done. And we can't do that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u358	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block would like to welcome the 4294 petitioners and say that the debate we are doing here is not a debate on the Orthographic Agreement. There was no party in this House who had voted against the Orthographic Agreement. The problem that is raised by the petitioners is that in this academic year 2014 / 2015 the national examinations that are carried out must be carried out in accordance with the rules of the Orthographic Agreement and students who do not respect that spelling can be penalized in the evaluation up to four values. The problem is that only in 2011 did it become mandatory in schools to use, teach, correct, evaluate according to the rules of the Orthographic Agreement and these students who took exams this year learned and had most of their school course using the old streams, and this, at the level of the classes, of the literature, of the materials why they learned. However, what the petitioners are asking is that, basically, there is a corrective tolerance to allow, in a period of adaptation, the two letters to be considered. This suggestion made by petitioners is accompanied by unions, parent associations and even has a positive opinion of the Council of Schools and the National Association of Portuguese Teachers, which say it makes sense for students who did not have their school course, their learning, with the rules of the new Agreement there is a corrective tolerance in national examinations. This suggestion seems prudent and sensible and we follow the petitioners' demands. On the weight of the examinations, on the criticism of the 'avalocracy' which the Left Block has also done, that is another matter, which will certainly be the subject of other debates here in Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u360	For an intervention, Mrs Rosa Areses has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the more than 4000 subscribers to this petition on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party. The use of the rights that the democratic system confers on each individual represents an exercise of citizenship that we applaud, regardless of the position that each person can take on certain matters. And, in this particular case, the fact that many of the subscribers are young is still an added reason for praising their proactive attitude and their intervention in defending their choices. The petition we have discussed today, as has already been mentioned, defends the corrective tolerance for the non-use of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement in the national examinations this school year. We understand the concerns that are underlying this petition. however, it is worth recalling that the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 21 January 2011 — we are talking about the former Government —, determined the application of the Agreement to the education system in the academic year 2011 / 2012. That's what happened. A period of adaptation was provided to the students and was released in due course to the entire educational community that in 2014 / 2015 would only be admitted in the evidence the new spelling. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u362	This information was published by the then GAVE ( Office of Educational Assessment ) on 13 September 2011. This is, three and eight months and a half years ago, which is public in the current academic year, the codification criteria for national examinations will consider, as valid, exclusively the rules defined by the current Ortographic Agreement. It is also worth recalling that since 2011 students have studied by manuals that have applied the Agreement; they have applied the new spelling in classes, evaluation tests and other school tasks. It is for all this that the attendance of this petition would be a factor of instability. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Regardless of the small impact that non-compliance with the Agreement may have on the classification of students, whether or not we are in line with the Orthographic Agreement itself, this concern can only deserve our applause, because it is concerned about a matter that is of the greatest importance, insofar as it is about safeguarding the defense and preservation of the Portuguese Language that unites more than 250 million speakers, separated by oceans but united by the common language of Camões and Fernando Pessoa. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-07-01.u363	Mrs. Members, we conclude here the debate on petition No 478 / XII ( 4. ( a). Mrs. Members, the next plenary session takes place tomorrow, Thursday, 2 July, at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes, and its agenda will consist of the following: first point, joint debate of the projects of lein.o 998 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Shorten legal deadlines for elections to the Assembly of the Republic and eliminate unjustified ineligibility of citizens with dual nationality ( PS ) and 1022 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Tenth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Assembly of the Republic, fifth amendment to the Electoral Recensation Act and second amendment to the Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; second point, joint debate of the projects of lein.o 545 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Improving the allocation rules and amending the duration and amounts of unemployment and social unemployment allowance ( CFP ), 546 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the social allowance for extraordinary unemployment ( CFP ), in general, of petition No 401 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by CGTP-IN — General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to legislate in order to ensure the right to employment and social protection in unemployment, and draft law No 1018 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Protects long-term unemployed persons, facilitates access to unemployment benefit ( BE ), also in general ; third point, joint debate on draft resolution No 1456/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Exceptional measures for inclusive education ( BE) and draft law No 1017 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Special Education Legal Regime ( CFP ) ; fourth point, assessment of the Ombudsman's Report; fifth point, joint debate of petition No 485 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Mónica Elisabete de Ascension Nunes de Andrade et al., requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August 2014 which promotes the protection of animals, and draft Law No 1024 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for penalties for crimes against pet animals ( PS ) ; sixth point, joint debate of petition No 503 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the URAP — Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists Resistances, requesting the intervention of the Assembly of the Republic for the realization of the « Tribute to the martyrs of the twentieth century » at the place where the headquarters of the PIDE, in the port, and of draft resolutions Nos 1015 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, by maintaining the Port Military Museum, identify the routes and rooms used by the PIDE and promote the fair homage to those who went through the building of heroism and there resisted fascism ( PCP ) and 1561 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the memory of political persecution in the Port Military Museum ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
