ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State and Finance, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Minister of the Presidency and Parliamentary Affairs and Mr Under-Secretary of State and Budget — to whom the Bureau congratulates — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Mrs. Members, today the agenda consists of interpellation No 21 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Centered in the continuation of the policy of the troika by the Government and in the affirmation of alternative policy and solutions for the country ( PCP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there is no previous reading of the dossier today, and there are still many Members. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take your seats, let us take a very small break so that there are conditions for the debate. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, let us then begin the agenda with the frame of Article 227. the Rules of Procedure. The debate is opened by the requesting party of the initiative, and Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Portugal goes through one of the most difficult periods of its history. This week spent four years on April 6, 2011 when, following the CEP, the PS government then, with the agreement of the PSD and the CDS, decided to place Portugal on the path of the Troika aggression pact. The PSD/CDS-PP government has been enthusiastic about this programme corresponding to its political options, it proclaims an exit which is not seen and continues the same policy, with consequences which are now well marked in Portuguese reality. What is the true track of the right-wing policy, the CEP policy and the aggression pact, the government's action? What policy is this? This is the policy of the destruction of the production apparatus and of national production. Real GDP increased from EUR 181 billion in 2008 to EUR 169 billion in 2014, a 6, 6 % fall to the level existing in 2001, a decade and a half ago. This is the policy of cutting public investment. The decisive investment in maintaining production, infrastructure, equipment and development fell from EUR 7200 million in 2009 to EUR 4200 million in 2014. This is the policy of mass unemployment. Between 2009 and 2014, the number of jobs was reduced by almost half a million, the unemployment rate in a restricted sense increased from 9, 4 to 13, 9 % despite emigration and non-accounting of more than 160 000 « employed » in stages, occupational programmes and training actions. The number of unemployed in a broad sense increased from 653 000 to more than 1200 million, the unemployment rate for young people reaches 35 %, the number of long-term unemployed doubled and only 23 % of unemployed people receive unemployment benefit. This is the policy of forced emigration, which has driven out of the country, for economic reasons, over the past five years, almost 400 000 Portuguese, an unparalleled dimension in the last 50 years, only comparable to the time of fascism. This is the policy of increasing exploitation, cutting wages and pensions, of changes to the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works, of striking on collective bargaining, of facilitating lay-offs, of eliminating holidays, of deregulation and of increasing working hours, of promoting lay-offs, of cutting off the reform supplements in public transport undertakings and of generalising precariousness with false green receipts, and of resorting to forced and unpaid work, such as the so-called 'employment-inclusion contracts' or the stages to meet permanent needs. Private sector wages decreased between 2011 and 2013, 13 % and in the Public Administration almost doubled. The share of labour in the distribution of national income was reduced and represented only 37 %, while the share of capital reached 62 %. This is the policy of impoverishment, which promotes low wages and pensions, cuts in their amounts, unemployment, elimination of social support, family allowance, supplementary support for the elderly, social income for inclusion. A race that creates a dramatic situation with the poverty rate to pass between 2009 and 2013 from 17, 9 to 25, 9 %, plus 800 000 people in poverty, 2700 million Portuguese hit heavily in their lives. This is the policy of privatization and cuts in public administration and in public services. in the National Health Service conditioning the access and provision of health care, causing the rupture of the emergencies of hospitals. in public school at various levels, including financial strangulation of higher education and uninvestment in science. in the attack on local power, in the degradation of justice, in the disregard of the armed forces and the military, as well as the professionals of the security forces. in the degradation of the various public services, in the attack on the right to housing. This is the policy of deepening social injustice and inequality. in a situation where only 1% of the population owns around 25% of the national wealth and 5% of the population accumulates 50% of that wealth, the government has brutally increased taxes on workers, pensioners and the general population and has reduced taxes on economic and financial groups. The profit accumulated by the main economic and financial groups and the public money that is drained to the bank on the scandals of BPN, BPP or BES for PPPs and swaps contrasts with the reduction of wages and pensions and the cuts of support to those who need protection and social support. This is, for all this and much more, a policy and this is, for all this and much more, a government that does not serve the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Deputies, half-year ago, of PEC and attack pact, the major capital decision centres, the PSD government / CDS-PP, unfold in misleading propaganda seeking to hide the disaster where they led and are driving the country. But reality leaves no doubt as to the great leap behind which the country was subjected. Great constraints remain and worsen, having as central elements the domain of monopolistic capital and external dependence. Among the main problems and constraints, there is the garrot of public debt. Unsustainable debt that compromises the present and future of the country. An interest bleeding, more than EUR 8 billion per year, more than the country spends on the National Health Service and twice the public investment. Transnational financial capital is not concerned about the level of our country's debt. What matters to you is that, on behalf of the debt, you can continue to extract national resources from the interest you receive. Portugal needs to get rid of this garrote, this money is fundamental to ensuring wages, pensions, social support, public services, to invest in the development of the productive apparatus, to take advantage of the resources of the country, to increase national production, to create jobs. It is good to bear in mind that the great justification for the JEPs and for the pact of aggression with the troika was the size of the deficit and public debt. Over the past few years, in this period of near-election, the statements of PSD and CDS-PP officials, accompanied by PS, are multiplied, saying that debt is sustainable. Meanwhile, the debt they claimed to fight has increased almost EUR 80 billion since 2009 and reaches 128 % of GDP, EUR 225 billion. That is, if the correlation of forces would allow it, after the elections, there would be no lack of arguments for an even more violent programme against workers, the people and the country, to try to perpetuate this path of national decline.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u4	That's what the PCP says is enough! We say enough humiliation, exploitation and impoverishment, enough corruption and dependence. We confidently assume the project of liberation, dignity and honesty, development and sovereignty that Portugal needs. Thus, at the time that the Government is working with the European Union to pursue the policy of the troika, when it insists on subjecting the country to the constraints of the mechanisms of the budgetary treaty, of the packages of economic governance and of the Stability and Growth Pact, when it prepares the so-called 'National Reform Programme' and 'Stability Programme', which are nothing more than the continuation of the exploitation, impoverishment and national decline, the CFP confronts it in this explanation with the disaster of its policy and the affirmation of the alternative policy needed for the country. Portugal needs solutions and the CFP Parliamentary Group will present today a draft resolution with this objective. Solutions for the country that the PCP advances and gains support in Portuguese society. [[PCP applause.]] That is: The renegotiation of public debt within its time limits, interest and amounts. The end of the so-called 'economic governance', as well as the repeal of the budgetary treaty, the disengagement of Portugal from these instruments and the study and preparation of the country for the release of the submission to the euro. The defence of the productive sectors and national production and the guarantee of public control of the basic and strategic sectors of the economy, including the bank. The value of work and workers, through a fair distribution of income, is based on the value of wages, full employment, the defence of work with rights and greater reforms and pensions, the fight against unemployment and precariousness. The defence of public services and the functions of the State, in particular their social functions, including the National Health Service, the public school, social security and culture. A fairer fiscal policy, which ensures the investment and financing of State social functions, breaks down with the support of economic and financial groups and relieves the tax burden on workers and the people, on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. These are essential aspects of the policy that the CFP proposes, of the policy that Portugal needs. Mrs. Members, four years ago, on 5 April 2011 the CFP announced to the country its innovative proposal for the renegotiation of public debt, inserted into an alternative path of economic and social development. PS, PSD and CDS-PP refused this path and opted for the troika with the national devastation you know. Four years have been lost, the backwardness is notorious, the situation today is much worse, but it is always time. The government's time is running out, a time for decision-making on the alternative road is approaching. The CFP, for its part, presents solutions for the country and is prepared and ready to assume all the responsibilities that the Portuguese people want to assign to it, in order to realize a patriotic and left-wing policy, linked to the April values, for a future Portugal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u5	The opening of the debate is completed by the intervention of the Government, and the Minister of State and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking Mr Francisco Lopes for the opportunity to come here to Parliament to hold a debate, which is appropriate, on what commitments Portugal has made and what commitments we have to meet during this month of April, in addition to the contributions we have requested from the parties and the social partners. As you know, we ask all the parties with parliamentary seats, in my letter of 6 March, to send us contributions to the preparation of the National Reform Programme, which then, of course, has a budgetary mirror in the Stability Programme for the next four years, precisely because we understand that we must listen to the parliamentary sitting parties and incorporate these contributions into a discussion so that we can have a National Reform Programme and a Stability Programme which are as consensual as possible within the elected representatives. in fact, with regard to the contributions that have been requested, the CFP referred, in the letter it sent in reply, that it really does not intend to send contributions, because it is in total disagreement with all the rules which, meanwhile, are established and to which the country has become bound, as Mr Deputy has now reiterated in his speech. However, Mr President, Portugal has taken these commitments out of its own will by the majority of the elected Members and, as such, these commitments will naturally be fulfilled, but we respect the position of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. however, let me tell you that, when you say that the policies of the troika continue, if you refer to the need to maintain budgetary discipline, it is true that this government will continue to insist on the need to maintain budgetary discipline,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u8	... because it was the lack of budgetary discipline in the past that forced in recent years measures were taken that were undoubtedly very serious for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u10	They were very serious for those who are unemployed, for those who, however, have lost their jobs and for people who need social protection most, despite the government's efforts to protect the most disadvantaged. And it has already been widely recognized in multiple international reports that, in fact, the distribution of sacrifices in Portugal has paid attention to the most disadvantaged. We always protect the lowest pensions, we always protect the lowest wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u11	You're kidding!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u12	... we updated the minimum social and rural pensions throughout this period, we have always had a great concern for the most disadvantaged. But indeed, the crisis has serious consequences and the most serious consequence is unemployment. He said that in 2008 — I think the number he cited was 2008 — unemployment was above 9 % and when the crisis broke out was at the house of both digits. It is true that it has become very worse, it is also true that, in large part, it has already reverted, and we hope that it will continue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u13	Continue? Oh, my God! It's getting bigger!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u14	... but indeed, what happened in the previous decade was a persistent rise of unemployment which should have served as a warning to the government to correct the course of policies being taken. As the crisis was less apparent — and it is noted that the crisis was only less apparent, because it was actually in formation — this question was underestimated, it was not given due attention and when finally it was agreed to the problem it was already late, which forced an emergency programme and the taking of measures that were harder than had been taken in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u16	That is our responsibility now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u17	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u18	When we begin to see the economy recovering, when we begin to stabilize public finances, we have the obligation, and the Portuguese so demand, to ensure that the new improvement cycle will not be used to create the problems of the past, but will be used to prevent the problems of the future, because that is what will effectively safeguard the Portuguese from the painful difficulties they have to suffer over these years. So when it is said that, in the next cycle, we will return everything, we will pay everything, as if the problem had disappeared, it is pure irresponsibility, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u20	What we have to guarantee is that we create the conditions so that the problem does not repeat itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] After that, the honourable Member referred to the public debt and the levy. Mr President, today's news in all the media is the fact that the interest rate in Portugal is around negative values two years ago. I have some difficulty in reconciling the concept of accrual with negative interest rates in public debt. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In any case, Mrs. Members, what we really need to be concerned about is how the country has the conditions to create wealth, because only what exists can be distributed. And our first and main concern, once we have achieved the stability of public accounts, must be to preserve it in order to prevent a new breakdown in public accounts from having serious consequences on the real economy, on employment, on Portuguese families, on those who need the assurance that the state will be there to support them, because they are the ones most dependent on the support of the State in the National Health Service, in public school, on unemployment subsidies, on social support. In order for the State to be able to give all these conditions, the State must ensure that, at the best times, it does what is necessary to threaten the times that are most difficult. When you point out that the crisis over the last three years has pushed the country 15 years back, what you should be asking is what policies we have followed in the previous 15 years to create the wealth that was destroyed by a 6, 5 % recession and what that says about the growth rate of the previous 15 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u21	The PSD wasn't in the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u22	When everyone around us grew up, when Spain reduced its public debt by a large percentage of GDP, when Ireland reduced its public debt when Belgium reduced public debt by half during that period, Portugal increased public debt and almost didn't grow.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u23	And how is the public debt of Ireland and Spain today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u24	That is why a recession of 6, 5 %, which is serious, has shot the Country 15 years back.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u25	And how is the public debt of Ireland and Spain today? Oh, my God! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u26	It is time to reflect on why 6, 5 % have burned down 15 years, what has been lost in those 15 years, and why we have had to suffer so much in the last 4 years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Francisco Lopes says that debt has increased 80 billion, but, Mr. Member, most of this debt has not increased, it has appeared,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u27	... appeared explicitly in the public accounts, because effectively the debt of public undertakings, of entities that were reclassified already existed, only did not appear.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u28	I was already here!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u29	When it appeared, of course, it increased the number of public debt, but only showed a number that already existed. In fact, the danger of this budgeting was something for which the previous government was alerted, but all the less responsible behaviors always show up in the worst of times. Unfortunately, it's always like this, it's in the worst heights that all these things appear. But in this debt that you said increased is also a financial cushion that allows us to look at the Portuguese and say, with confidence, that we will not be in difficult circumstances, even if something around us goes wrong,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u30	As long as people go hungry! It's the theory of full vaults!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u31	... that we will not be afflicted, looking for money to pay wages and pensions, because we have reservations to be able to meet these needs, that we will not fail to pay the commitments of the National Health Service, because we have reservations, if necessary, to deal with these difficulties. And we'll just think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the difficulty of a government such as the Greek, which wants to negotiate a programme and does not have a toss in its coffers to be able to do that negotiation in conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u32	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u33	We were in a situation like this in 2011, we had to do a negotiation in a hurry, most likely in worse conditions than we would have done, if we were not in the near future to go bankrupt and have no money to solve the commitments, namely wages and pensions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That's it, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is called to rule responsibly and to keep margins of prudence that protect the Portuguese from what can happen around us and which is beyond our control. Of course, as the process is stabilizing, as the framework is improving, the need for this financial cushion is also decreasing. But we know that we are still able to honour our commitments and not leave the Portuguese at the mercy of the whims of the market or of the demands of official creditors requires us to have this policy of prudence and responsibility. not essential, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we must join here in this discussion, respecting the differences we have, is how we can ensure that the path of growth and recovery that the country has already begun consolidates, progresses, what are the commitments we can and should take in the coming years, so that our future path will always be better, so that we can reduce unemployment, so that we can attract private investment in the country, so that we can maintain the discipline of public accounts and prevent Portugal — and it would be the fourth time in less than 40 years — from having to see the situation in which it has been seen in the last four years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u34	Mrs. Members, the Bureau already records many entries, the first of which by Mrs Elsa Cordeiro of the PSD, to put questions to Mr Francisco Lopes. They are also registered 10 Members. Members to put questions to the Minister of State and Finance. I don't know how the Minister wants to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u35	Madam President, I will answer three, three, three, and finally four. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u36	All right, Mrs. Minister. So you have the floor, first of all, to ask Mr Francisco Lopes, Mrs Elsa Cordeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u37	Mr. President, Mr. Francisco Lopes, once again, and in an uncoordinated way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u38	Indecorately? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u39	... they want the PCP Members to bring the debate and make it clear that the policies implemented by this government are inadequate and that there is only salvation for the country with patriotic policies of the left, conservative nature and already defeated by history. I would like to remind you of the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Deputies who in 2011 were the country in pre-banking, the state had only money to pay wages and social benefits for another two months and Portugal had to ask for external help to maintain our sovereignty and we could pay wages and social benefits. I recall that we have been under a very hard financial assistance programme for all Portuguese people for two and a half years. I recall that we have been through the worst economic crisis of our 40 years of democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u40	Caused by government policies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u41	This situation cannot be attributed to this government, but to the misguided, costly and irresponsible policies of the socialist government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u42	But this government and this majority managed, with their policies, to remove the country from bankruptcy, when no one already believed it was possible, to carry out the financial assistance programme, when no one already believed it was possible, and to return to economic growth, when few believed it was possible. You want the Members and the Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CFP make it clear that, with another fiscal policy, they solve all our problems. Never, but there was never a government that cared so much about families and small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Listen, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, listen! That is why there is a small scale of IRC for small and medium-sized enterprises; that is why, contrary to what they want to make clear, there is a state-of-the-art spill, in addition to the rate of IRC, which taxes large companies, with profits above EUR 1500 million; that is why the contribution from the banking sector has increased; that is why the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector has been introduced; that is why the contribution on the pharmaceutical industry has increased. On the other hand, we increased minimum pensions, increased unemployment allowance for unemployed couples, created the bonus rate of energy and extended the exemption of IMI for families with lower incomes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, many more examples could give tax policies that cost the highest income, showing the social justice of this government's action. Today, we have a more efficient and friendly state of the families and businesses;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u44	... today, it is possible to finance at negative rates none of us. Members of the opposition believed in this, but today it is possible, in view of the credibility of this government! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u45	Is the Minister subscribing this to negative rates? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u46	When, in a recent past, no one had financed us, this government recovered the country's credibility and increased the confidence of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u47	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u48	So, Mr Francisco Lopes, I ask you: in a global economy, when we belong to a European Union and to a single currency, do you defend, in your political solutions, the exit of the euro country? It is only that, Mr President, we have to tell the truth, that it must be true for the Portuguese, because no Portuguese wants to go through more sacrifices in the near future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u49	Mrs Deputies, there was a distraction from the Bureau regarding the time limit he had, but, despite everything, it is imputable in the overall time of the parliamentary group. However, in order to balance the debate, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members who respect the time limits of the regime. Mr Francisco Lopes has the floor now to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u50	Madam President, Mrs Elsa Cordeiro and Mrs Minister for Finance, I wanted to show my surprise at what had just been said. in the background, we have come here to say that our country, this year, will not pay EUR 8 billion in debt interest, but will receive billions of euros from creditors, because the interest rate is negative!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u51	It's really demagogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u52	Great information we had today, here! [[Protests by PSD Member Elsa Cordeiro.]] This shows that what has been said is a point issue that seeks to hide the real question of the situation of the country's life. Moreover, the large economic groups, our creditors, are not concerned about the debt of our country. For them, she can go up, because if she goes up, they'll take more interest!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u54	Today, they may even say, in a conjugation, that interest may fall, but tomorrow, from a month to a year or so, they can artificially raise interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u56	We can't be subject to this garrote! That is why it is a matter of responsibility for renegotiating the debt. On the question of the euro, I would say the following: attention, the CFP argues that it is necessary for the country to study and prepare to free itself from the euro. Someone, in their due judgment, if you are aware of the responsibilities in our country, can say that you should not study, that you should not think? Oh, my God! We can be subject to the fact that, one day, the European Central Bank or the European Union say, "You have to cut wages, pensions... you have to destroy your productive activity" and we accept this on behalf of the euro? Oh, my God! We must be prepared, we must study that, when it is necessary to defend national interests — and so many times this is necessary! ... — if you say: « That's where we're not going! We have a choice! We are a sovereign country! We are a people who deserve to be treated with dignity! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u57	The government's policy is at the service of the large economic and financial groups and speculators, against the interests of the Portuguese people, and the results of the implementation of this programme are in sight. Still this week and last week, we saw what happened, we saw what is poverty, poverty, hunger: thousands of people in the Tejo estuary pushed into the grip of the ameijoa, in a situation where they have to look for their livelihood, at risk of life! [[PSD protests.]] It is the example of what poverty means! On the other hand, they minimized what 400 000 Portuguese meant to have been pushed into emigration! You know what that means? Oh, my God! It means that, throughout the Coimbra district, there would not be a person left if people had not migrated from other parts of the country!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u59	Figueira da Foz, Coimbra, all the cities, villages and villages of the district of Coimbra would not be with one person! This is the size of emigration in the last four years! And this has consequences for today and for the future. On the issue of tax injustice, we see the colossal increase in VAT taxes, IRS — plus 35 % — for workers and for the general population,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u60	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u61	... while tax on large companies, IRC has decreased from 23 % to 21 % and is on its way to a further reduction!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u62	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u63	A lot of that money that stops entering the state vaults is going where? It goes to the profits of the large economic groups and a large part leaves Portugal, damaging the development of our country. This policy and this government are useless; an alternative policy is needed. We have solutions for the country and we are putting them in debate in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u64	The first speaker to put the question to Mr. Minister of State and Finance is Mr. Miguel Tiago. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u65	Mr President, the Minister of State and Finance, first of all, this propaganda of economic recovery and a path of progress strongly contrasts with the reality in view of the Portuguese. But it is understandable to want to make us believe that we are almost there, that there is only one more effort, that it is only a little longer for them to continue to work on wages, pensions, Portuguese rights. They want to convince us that there is only a little more and that everything up here would be in vain, when, in fact, the greater the life time of this greater government will be the sacrifices! Mrs. Minister, « full boxes»? Oh, my God! Your safes are full of debt to pay debt. That's what the government's safes are full of!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u67	Between 2011 and 2014 debt increased by more than EUR 30 billion, now at 130 % of GDP. Interest costs already account for more than EUR 8580 million per year, and that cost is expected to continue to grow. By 2020, Portuguese will be forced to pay a total of EUR 60 billion of interest only due to debt already incurred.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u69	What we spent annually on interest, Mrs. Minister, would finance another full national health service, operating for a whole year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u70	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u71	... or free education for all Portuguese to the highest level of education for a year, or would double the budget of support for arts for 400 years. This is the way that has brought us here and with which it is urgent to break, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u73	With the new Stability Programme, what options will this government take? Are you still accepting the Union's taxes or trying to converge with other countries which have similar debt problems and are subject to similar taxation, as the CFP proposes? Do you wish to continue to pay exorbitant interest, sacrifice rights, wages and pensions, continue to destroy public services, social, cultural, economic and even state sovereignty functions or renegotiate debt in order to be able to invest in education, health, social security, culture, production, value for wages and pensions, as proposed by the CFP? Persist in the surrender of the country and its wealth to private and foreign interests or to defend national interest? Persisting in the surrender of sovereignty to interests other than those of the Portuguese or defending our right to decide about our own destiny? Mrs. Minister, refusing to renegotiate the debt is not honest, it is an excuse to continue the policy of the troika and the circle of wealth produced by those who work. Renegotiating debt is defending the national interest and this — it is everyone's view — cannot be done by a delegation from the European Union, it must be by a government next to and at the service of the people and the country, as the CFP proposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u74	The next question is PS. Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u75	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, the Government and the majority who support it have placed their speech on the idea that heavy sacrifices were demanded from the Portuguese people, but it was worth it. It was worth it because, however, after suffering and sacrifice, the economy began to recover. Unfortunately, that is not true if we take account of the data on employment and unemployment. Many people have the idea that an economy, after knocking on the ground, begins to grow. Unfortunately — and the Minister knows that — it is possible for an economy to hit the ground and stay there. In fact, if the Great Depression shows us something is that many countries, after years of falling, have also been with dying economies, where they grew up and fell again, where they created jobs and destroyed again. That is possibly what is happening to the Portuguese economy! in the first year and half of the adjustment, the country saw 418 000 jobs destroyed. From January 2013 onwards, we started a recovery: the creation of net employment. This created the expectation among all of us that we could probably be entering a sustainable path of job creation. Unfortunately, starting in August 2014, employment began to be destroyed, net job creation ceased to exist. If by January 2013 418 000 jobs were destroyed, between January 2013 and August 2014 171,000 were created. From August on, destruction began. Between August and September, we lost 4000 jobs; in October, 20 000 jobs; in November, 3000 ; in December, 14 000 ; in January, 7000 ; in February, 11 000 jobs destroyed! We have been witnessing an uninterrupted drop in employment for six months: 158 000 jobs have been destroyed in the last six months! What's happening to us, Minister? What is the explanation of the government? The Minister for Economic Affairs explained the fall on the basis of seasonality. But the seasonality that would explain this fall is the same as it will probably explain some growth in summer; the same that will explain the destruction of employment again in winter. Does this mean, Mr Minister, that we have reached the limit of structural job creation, that structural recovery has ended and that we will not go from 3 % to 5 % below?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u76	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u77	In recent months, between November and February 2015, we witnessed a destruction of 29 000 jobs, 16 000 were subsidised jobs lost. I imagine that it is frustrating for a liberal to realize that the labour market is so dependent on subsidized employment. What do you think the Minister of this dependence on the Portuguese labour market in relation to employment financed by public money?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u78	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u79	Mr Minister, in a context where interest rates are close to zero or, in some times, negative, in which the euro is being depreciated, in which the price of oil is half the value of one year ago, how does it explain that employment has been falling continuously for six months? Mrs. Minister, what's happening to us? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u80	The next question is from the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u81	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, one of its phrases today, said and repeated by the Government is that the Government had a commitment to wages and pensions, which maintained this commitment during its governance and which was because of that commitment which it governed, ensuring that debt did not bear them. Nothing more false, Mrs. Minister! Nothing more false! The commitment to this government was, exactly, to cut down every year's wages, to withdraw pensions to those who had a whole life discounted. And numbers don't lie. With this government, its commitment to austerity led to 13 % of the wages of the private sector, almost 20 % of the salaries of the public. Every year of this government's commitment to austerity has frozen the average pensions and removed the money to higher pensions. Every year of this government's commitment to austerity has plunged the country more into poverty, frozen and withdrew social support, created more poverty among the younger and unemployment has not ceased to increase. Your commitment is not to the country, it is not to the people, it has never been! It is with great interest and, in particular, with austerity. This is the supersuming for which he has ruled and which shows the choice that is on the table: cutting people more and more to save the large economic groups, particularly the bank, instead of sacrificing the bank to, with this, give people life. This was the government that wanted to be committed to the great interests of Portugal and Europe, to the great interests of the bank. [[Protests from CDS-PP MP Michael Seufert.]] in the choices he made left, long ago, people behind, sacrificed in his austerity! But there are very obvious choices. With this government, every year taxes were increasingly heavy on those who work. We see this also this year: IRS is the basis, it is the pillar of tax revenue, along with VAT, and it falls on those who work in this country, while the large economic groups are now very grateful to the government for the successive lows of IRC.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u83	But let's see what's going on in the bank: the banks, with this government, had the biggest business. There is a term — « deferred taxes » — in which they have ensured for decades that they will have tax evasion of this government. But there is one, in particular, called Banco Espírito Santo, which has to have EUR 2830 million in the New Bank. Mrs. Minister, there is a question you have to answer here. This bank, which is expected for the offerings that are being made, which will not be worth more than that, will now be sold in the following terms: « Now give us a little money that we will then give it to you in tax discounts. If you pay now, you receive more forward in deferred taxes». Is this your social justice? Is this your commitment to the unjust tax system that only brought poverty? If they were people, there was no tax difference, there was not even a tax forgiveness like what happened. If they were people, they would be homeless if they didn't pay the IMI, they would have their lives paralyzed if they didn't pay IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u84	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u85	But these are, in fact, the choices of those who are committed to austerity and who have long forgotten people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u86	I now give the floor to the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by subscribing to some of the statements made by the honourable Members. Members of the CFP, who say that we must defend national interests and that we are a people who deserve to be treated with dignity. I believe that any of us will subscribe to these sentences and I personally subscribe, Mr Commissioner. We have different ways of safeguarding national interests and, over these years of democracy, and there are already some, I am always afraid that we will always be presented to the Portuguese with our views on what safeguards these interests and we have respected the outcome of these votes as regards what safeguards these interests. That is how we are here today and here we will certainly be after the next legislative elections, respecting what the people sovereignly determine, in what their vision is about what they really defend national interests. But I think we can all claim that we do it legitimately. As regards the issues which Mr Tiago has raised, in particular that the interest paid will continue to increase, I must say, Mr President, that the interest paid will not continue to increase, the interest paid will fall, precisely because we will replace debt that is more expensive for debt that is cheaper. In fact, it is true that we have a great deal of dependence on external indebtedness. Mr President, I have said here many times, and I will not tire of repeating, that debt is memory of past deficits and the only way not to depend on creditors is to ask them for money. And that's the solution for you. Ladies and gentlemen do not present. What you say is: we stop paying interest with renegotiating debt and then make a lot of investments. Mr President, let's imagine that we did this in a year and that we had the 8,000 million. And then the next year? It was over, because wealth was not generated by miracle or good intentions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u88	8 billion a year!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u89	Unfortunately for many people, the policy that you are defending has already had multiple practical applications and never, Mr Deputy, in any of the countries, has resulted in progress and wealth for the respective populations. [[PDS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u90	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u91	That is the truth, Mr President. You want the gentlemen. Members like, or not, the truth is that communist regimes have all fallen because they have never created wealth and good living conditions for the people. And that is not an issue of opinion, it is a historical fact. Capitalism, with its defects in Western societies, as they were commonly called, had crises but actually created wealth and people improved their standard of living. Things are as they are, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u92	But they're not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u93	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, the honourable Member is talking about unemployment issues. Unemployment figures naturally concern the government. In fact, we have often said that unemployment has to be our greatest concern, because it is clearly what concerns the Portuguese most. We also know that employment is not created by decree or promising 150 000 jobs in an election campaign, because they do not happen later, as we see.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u94	Tell that to the Chinese!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u95	Employment is created with the creation of wealth! The gentlemen. Members also said, I think it was Mr Miguel Tiago, that we are trying to convince the Portuguese that there is only one bit left. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish I could just miss a little! in fact, there is still a lot left, because the problem that was created in the country was, in fact, very big. We have managed to stabilize, reverse the trend, but we need to continue the effort. We are not saying that we will have to impose new sacrifices but we must say that recovery will have to be cautious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u96	But what recovery? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u97	...recovery can never lead to a situation where we fall back into it. The gentlemen. Members will be able to verify that every time we fall into a crisis it is worse than the previous ones and those who suffer are always the same, it is the Portuguese. It is our responsibility to ensure that what we are improving is done responsibly and people realize that when we recover from a very difficult situation we have to do with caution to ensure that we do not go back. When you say you are very concerned about unemployment, I must say, about unemployment, or about the lack of job creation, that it is true that unemployment continues to fall in terms of counterparts, and it is true that in recent months we have had a rise in unemployment, but you have never heard me say that this would always improve, without any surprise. In fact, I have said several times that we are going to have some jumps and that the road will not be easy, and that is what is required of responsible governments, i.e. to recognise that the road has difficulties, that they recognize that there will be times when things go less well, but what is important is to assess the trend.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u98	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u99	I'm done now, Madam President. I would also like Mr. Pedro Nuno Santos to explain to me why during the Socialist Government, in the first phase, with supposed economic growth, when everything went well around, unemployment always increased. At that time the honourable Member was not concerned. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u100	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Adam Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Minister mentioned here sometimes the need for budgetary discipline and the stability of public accounts. I want to begin by commending the government for the effort it has made to achieve this stability of public finances, because this is not an empty word, it has extraordinary repercussions in the country. One of the repercussions is, in particular, the sustainability of the social state. There is no doubt that we need budgetary discipline and the effort that has been made has been great, but the notion that this effort has been worth it. And, in this sense, there is clear evidence at the moment, Mrs Minister, that I would like to emphasize in this debate. Yesterday, his colleague for Social Security, at a hearing in the Commission, brought us data of the greatest relevance : in the first quarter of 2015 compared with the first quarter of 2014, contributions to social security increased EUR 154 million. This is almost 5% more than in the first quarter of 2014. This means that if it has not changed — and has not changed — the single social rate, something is happening in this country so that contributions will increase in this way. My question is therefore the following: after the disaster that was 2011, provoked by the Socialist Party, what is really happening in this country, with regard to contributions to social security? Is this the reflection of the homologous increase in employment...?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u102	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u103	...and the increase in wages, where does the single social rate reflect? And does this give, or does it not, sustainability to the public social security system? We know very well that when you arrived at the government and the social security system was in collapse, it was placed there by the state until now about EUR 3600 million, until the end of 2014. This was public money so that the social security system would not collapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u104	What about BPN? How much did you put in BPN?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u105	It is very important to know that the public social security system has the means to self-sufficient, and that is why I would ask you to comment on this extraordinary growth, I would even say spectacular, of contributions in the first quarter of 2015, which is surely the result of the budgetary discipline you referred to here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u106	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Finance began her speech on commitments and said that the commitments were to be fulfilled. But the Minister did not say everything, because otherwise she said that for this government it is only to meet some commitments. This is because the State had a commitment, for example, to the reformers and the government came to give the lie. of what was a commitment to the reformed, who were going to discount a whole life, because they trusted the state, the government did not want to know! Therefore, Mrs Minister, when she says that the commitments are to be fulfilled, she also adds « only a few», especially depending on the recipients.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u108	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u109	Then, Mrs. Minister, we've spent four years talking about positive signs, economic miracles, light at the bottom of the tunnel. The Government says that recovery has been notorious, that social and economic stability is under fire, Mr. Prime Minister announced away in the East, perhaps in the hope that these truths will not be heard here. The safes are full, says the Minister of Finance, in an unusual position of power and in the face of the outrage of thousands of people who go through serious economic deprivations in Portugal. But all of a sudden, we turn off the TV and, after all, the safes are empty! Money's not ours. in families, the money, which was for a month, is not enough by the end of the third week. Unemployment rose again, between January and February this year we had another 11 000 unemployed and poverty continues to spread. After all, the troika left but remained the policies. I am surprised but the Minister today confirmed that this will be the case. Do you know what that means, Minister? That means that the government has been lying to the Portuguese for four years when it presented cuts and increases in taxes as provisional. In good rigour, what the government is telling us is simply this: as the cut in wages, as the increase in taxes, as the cut in social support did not result, the government will continue to keep cuts in wages, the increase in taxes and cuts in social support. It was this, Mrs Minister, that the government should tell the Portuguese once and for all! Returning to the full safes, Mrs. Minister, the safes are full of debt money. This pillow implies a cost of interest, a cost that the Government has not yet disclosed. If this money is deposited at negative rates, as happens, for example in the ECB, this means that we are paying not only interest on the loan we have made but also paying interest on the deposit we are making. Is that so or not, Minister? By the way, if you could tell us how much that will cost, as a taxpayer, it would be good. Finally, and in conclusion, Mrs Minister, the Government has created a special system of tax credits for banks. This scheme is apparently being analysed by Brussels, because Brussels wants to know if we are facing an illegal benefit given to banks by the Government, i.e. the European Commission wants to know whether the Portuguese Government has granted unlawful State aid to the bank. Mr Minister, do you or do you not confirm these proceedings by the European Commission? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u110	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in a debate like this which the CFP has brought here — and indeed, because it is always good to have these discussions which are discussion of alternatives and it is good that they are, in fact, because it is not possible to make choices without discussing the alternatives — we can take two positions. One of them is very simple, and it is seen, in fact, often in this House, that we are discussing a fantastic world, that we all very much like to exist, in which public spending increases every year, deficit increases every year and we do not know how, by miracle, debt, or taxes decrease every year. It is an extraordinary world, it is a fantastic world, but it has a little detail: it is having nothing to do with reality, there is neither in Portugal nor in any part of the world. So if we really want to discuss alternatives, we need to discuss alternatives based on reality. The Portuguese, who have worked hard and have worked hard, over the past four years, to overcome the difficulties that they went through, understand and know well that they do not want to return to the past. It is that, of two, one: we can pretend that nothing has happened in the last four years and, moreover, pretend that what has happened has fallen from heaven to trombotons and there is no responsibility for the absolutely disastrous situation in which Portugal has been plunged, or we can face things. That is what most Portuguese have done, who have worked, have overcome difficulties and, at this moment, want to look to the future and have more...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u113	... economic growth and more prosperity, and not to continue in a kind of return to the past, discussing issues that actually do not exist. Let us see: we have heard a lot of discussions—and well, because public debt is a problem—about public debt and even interest accruals, but the truth is that when interest was higher and when debt increased, I did not hear these discussions, on the contrary, I heard discussions about where we should spend more. Only when the problem was difficult to solve is that you remembered interest and debt. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] I would also like to clarify one thing: we can actually discuss whether or not we pay the debt. It's a legitimate discussion. What I do not understand is the discussions in which we call'renegotiation' to 'we do not pay', because not paying is not renegotiating anything, it is not paying!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u114	Wood CDS knows very well what it means to renegotiate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u115	And then they imagine that there are no consequences. It is that if we are going to have a serious discussion on this subject, I am very pleased to have this discussion, and perhaps we can discuss, in particular, the Greek case, that the honourable Member will, of course, very much like to discuss,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...and the concrete consequences, in fact, of promising absolutely unrealistic things to people. It's an excellent discussion. But in this balance of alternatives, there is an alternative that I do not want to stop discussing either. I'd call CL back to the past. Yesterday, I saw news that the Secretary-General of the PS said that « it is necessary to say enough to the policy of this government », and then said that « the truth is that public finances are no better than four years ago ». I remembered going to see some headlines four years ago on April 8, but 2011, and I saw in particular in the Economic Diary (this is what you think better than now! ) a news that said: « Analysts expect financial aid to come by the end of May ». State has not yet decided whether or not to carry out debt auctions». Is this what you think is better? And this is what you have to offer the Portuguese? Oh, my God! Then I saw another news saying: « five years of austerity, with more taxes and less social protection». That's what you thought better.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u116	That's what happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u117	... was this the discussion you preferred? Oh, my God! Finally, I refer to one news saying: « interest on the debt that Portugal contracted in the last year had to pay for the entire network of the TGV ». [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Is this what you want to offer the Portuguese? Oh, my God! Is it the return to the past? Oh, my God! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think they want to go back. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u118	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just left Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' question for answering, but I have not forgotten and will now answer the questions he has raised. Both you and Mr. José Luís Ferreira referred to pension cuts and non-compliant commitments. There's a point here, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it always disappears by the way you are. Members raise the question, which is the fact that 86% of pensioners have never had any cuts in pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u120	They've got misery pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u121	And the lowest, social and rural pensions were updated every year, above the inflation rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u122	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u123	That's true, sir! It is also true that some other pensioners, 14 %, had to ask for a contribution to the consolidation of public finances and to overcome a difficult period. That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, and we have explained several times why it has been necessary to do so, because it has been necessary to ask some pensioners for this sacrifice — again, 14 % of pensioners and not all, like the honourable Members. Members always want to believe when they talk about it. Then, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, you said a phrase that is very beautiful: sacrifice the bank to give life to people. Mr President, I know it sounds good but I don't know what that means, because if by sacrificing the bank you mean nationalising it, we also put money in the General Deposit Box and that money out of the taxpayer's purse, because we are the shareholder.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u124	What about BES? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u125	If you want to close the banks, I wonder what you tell all the people who work there and lose their jobs. So I would like to know what that means to sacrifice the bank to give life to people. The gentlemen. Members also say that taxes have increased a lot. True, there was a huge increase in taxes. Our words are not even opposition from this government because it is also very difficult to choose another type of action which, from our point of view, would have led to faster growth and budgetary consolidation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u126	It was more taxes and cuts of wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u127	With regard to the question of deferred taxes on banks, which you say is a ban on banks, Mr Deputy, let me complete what you said: when banks have the possibility of converting these taxes into deferred assets into tax credits, the State remains equal to 110 % of that amount into shares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u128	Did he do that? Do you have shares in the New Bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u129	I don't know why you say that's bad. In other words, if we have a right which, in terms of value, is 10 % above what we put there, of two, one : or we become shareholders of the banks, which, according to the honourable Member, might perhaps even be something that he liked, because we were going to have public control, but the honourable Member also knows what public control implies and why banks prefer not to have it. This mechanism is intended to discourage use and ensure that taxpayers are safeguarded in any case. Mr. José Luís Ferreira asked me whether it is true that the Directorate-General for Competition is investigating the DTAs (deferred tax assets ). It is true that the Directorate-General for Competition is doing so. I wonder if you recommend that you respond to the Directorate-General for Competition as well as to the stability programme, 'we do not want to know that you do not care about these decisions', or should the European institutions now be respected? It's just to see if the criterion is always the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u130	Are the aid illegal?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u131	Finally, with regard to Mr Adam Silva's question, the increase in contributions to social security is an effective sign that there is more employment and that there is more income from work. When comparing with the homologous period, we can verify, with this indicator, the clear improvement we had in both the number of jobs and the income in wages associated with these jobs. As you said very well, the single social rate has not increased and, therefore, if you get a result that is clearly higher and the rate has not changed, it is because the basis is higher. This is an absolutely objective given when we compare the first quarter of 2014 with that of 2015, and in fact...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u132	Salaries and pensions have increased, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u133	Mr President, I am happy to recall that wages and pensions have increased. Thank you very much. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u134	It is from such measures that the Minister did not want!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u135	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, unemployment is, for reasons, the most significant result of your government's political project: impoverishment, worsening exploitation, attempt to destroy labour and social rights. Four years of PSD/CDS government and the result are more than two million unemployed, more than 500 000 jobs destroyed, more than 2, 6 million people living in a situation of poverty, cuts in wages, worsening of precariousness, increasing working hours, forced immigration of more than 400 000 Portuguese. At what cost and on behalf of whom, Madam Minister, that is what we ask you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u138	At the expense of the dignity of the lives of workers and the people and on behalf of the taxes that the European Union demands and the Government accepts, on its knees, without question. The country is experiencing dramatic economic and social problems and, in view of this, what does the government have to offer? More of the same! And we understand that the workers do not accept and the country does not bear any more unemployment and exploitation. Does the Government assume or not the responsibility to comply with the European Union's orders to aggravate the cuts in wages or, on the contrary, assumes the need for an increase in wages, in particular the national minimum wage? Does it comply with the European Union's orders to facilitate and further hinder redundancies or bet on strengthening the productive apparatus as a way towards job creation? Does it comply with the European Union's orders to exacerbate precariousness or assume the protection of employment with rights as a priority, eradicating all forms of precarious recruitment that meet the permanent needs of companies? Does it comply with the European Union's orders to increase and deregulation of working hours or will it reduce working hours and defend the right to link family, personal and professional life? Defending workers and their rights requires breaking with this path imposed by the European Union, demands the valorization of work and the fulfilment of the Constitution and its values as a solution for the country. To do so, we need to defeat this government, we need another policy and another government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u139	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reminded that the troika had three equally important pillars: public finances, economic reform and stability of the financial system. The new economy was the government's motto for passing what was nothing more than an ideological process of devastating labour rights, of devastating everything that was conquered, such as the social state, on 25 April. But over the past four years, we will see that sectors of the economy have grown in terms of employment and value added and we have found two services and banking. Agriculture and industry? They didn't grow up! These sectors have declined in terms of value added in these four years and have grown in terms of the percentage of employment. Two sectors have grown: services and banking. And we wonder if this is the new economy that has cost so many sacrifices and austerity to build. And it is exactly about the bank — this seemingly expanding sector in the Portuguese economy — that would like to ask Mr. Minister, moreover, about the bank and about financial stability, which was one of the pillars of the troika and its intervention in Portugal. The troika and this government persecuted pensioners, persecuted students, persecuted public officials, persecuted workers because of a debt that was not created by them. Public debt is not the fault of those who have worked, nor of those who have lived, nor of those who have supported social services in this country. Now, we want to know who will ask the troika and who will ask the government to take responsibility for what happened in the financial system, because it was their responsibility for the stability of the financial system. Although the troika turned its back, the BES went down, failed, with costs for the economy, with costs for the customers, with costs for all of us as contributors. Montepio is within the limits of the capital, BPI is also not in its best days and we want to know who takes responsibility. Shall we ask the troika for the money to be paid for the New Bank? Is it the troika that will pay for what you have not done, despite having responsibility for the stability of the financial system? What are you doing here? Now there is no demand for responsibilities for what was not done, while the troika had no stake in asking the Portuguese for responsibilities for what they did not, in the past, and in making the poorest for what the elite and the richest had done? Mr Minister, what will happen if the value that will be given by the New Bank is in fact around EUR 2000 million? What is going to happen, because we can come to the absurdity of having a bank or a company that comes to give EUR 2000 million for a bank that has inside a credit on the State worth EUR 2865 million! It is « a business of China », there is no doubt about it! Who's a good deal for? Is it a good business for those who buy the New Bank or is it a good business for those who sell the New Bank? How is it that this country, which says that it has no money to pay wages, has no money to pay pensions, has no money to pay public services, can undertake to give a tax coupon of 2865 million euros in the future to the new buyer of the New Bank? What country is this? What choices do you make? There is austerity for some and fewer resources for what is essential, but apparently future generations will be committed, which will have to lose EUR 2865 million in taxes that the owner of the New Bank will never pay, at the cost of public services and at the cost of, of course, more public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u141	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u142	Finally, the Minister said that these credits could become property. I therefore assume that the State has shares of the New Bank in the value of the tax credits it has there. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u143	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members, for the Portuguese Communist Party the future of our country does not go through debt-filled safes, unemployment to lower wages, emigration and hunger for the rich to get richer and richer. For the PCP, the future of our country goes through the valorization and dynamization of the different productive sectors, rather than making the country produce more wealth that returns to the vast majority of Portuguese and not to capitalist concentration. Therefore, in this debate, it is important to question whether the Government wants to continue to comply with the European Union's orders to destroy the productive sectors or whether it will take a stand for national interest. from fisheries to agriculture, from industry to services, there are people and objective conditions in our country to produce much more, to be self-sufficient in many goods and to replace goods that we import with exports. It is not only possible to break with the European Union's ties and the right-wing policy that destroyed and destroyed fishing. It is important to modernise and expand the fishing fleet to dynamize this important sector and achieve food sovereignty. It is urgent to take advantage of the enormous potential that our country has for agricultural production. This implies, of course, as the CFP proposes, not allowing us to impose constraints on our options. The example of milk production and the end of quotas is elucidative as the PSD, CDS and PS, at national and European Union level, compromise the country's self-sustainment and destroy thousands of small producers. The country needs to take advantage of mineral resources, placing them not at the service of multinationals but at the service of the country, with exploitation and obtaining added value throughout the row, from extraction to the transformation of the mineral. The country needs, with public investment, to create the conditions for the re-industrialization of our economy and to produce more and with more national incorporation. Only in this way is it possible to pay the debt that is legitimate, grow, promote employment and combat the structural deficits that the country has. Portugal is not a poor country, it is, yes, a country impoverished by right-wing politics.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u145	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u146	I shall end with a question, Minister : will the Government present to the European Union a stability programme that accepts the taxes that affect us or will it defend the national interest? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u147	Another PCP question follows. In view of the order of the entries received by the Bureau, it was not possible here to make a strict alternation of the intervention of the banks, so I give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister of Finance and the Government to which she belongs have come to insist on a theory that the country cannot afford to have public companies that defend development and national sovereignty, promote employment with rights, safeguard democratic control and socialisation of wealth created. in your theory, this is not for us: whoever has no money has no vices! It goes from there, sold public wealth to major interests, as were the operations in EDP, REN, ANA, CTT, GALP, PT, and the insurance and health business of the General Deposit Box. And what has been done, Minister at 9.2 billion euros of this delivery? They went to the payment of interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest on interest. Congratulations! The concrete reality is in sight, Minister for Finance. contrary to what you say, the truth is that the country cannot afford to abdicate a state business sector. Your strategy for the country is summed up in this famous phrase, « liquidate or privatize ». We do not accept this « choice» that you want to give us now in relation to TAP, EMEF, CP Cargo, public transport. Portugal has no money, Mrs Minister, to feed private economic groups, monopolies, renters, who live only above our possibilities. As the country sank into the economic and social crisis, they left Portugal for profits, dividends, interest, EUR 198 billion in the last eight years! This for Mrs. Minister doesn't matter. He's going to talk, he's doing other things, but the truth is that reality is this: we're not going to be a sovereign country and developed without a free economy of monopolies and external taxation, with diversified property sectors, but with its own and complementary dynamics, respected and supported by the State. But here it assumes a strategic and decisive character the defense of a business sector of the State which is dynamic, integrated and efficient, in the financial and other basic and strategic sectors of the economy — energy, industry, transport and communications — which plays a decisive role in the development of productive forces and in the acceleration of economic development, in which business management, with the participation of workers, is coordinated and ensured by full and competent managers in the effective service of a democratic state and the public good. Will you do as the former Minister of Finance, of the former Government, who gave PT as a wonderful example of privatization? That's the question we left. Do you or do you not realize that there is a future to be built but not with this policy of dismantling and selling the country 'to the pieces'? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u149	I give the floor to the Minister of State and Finance to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u150	Madam President, Mrs Rita Rato began by talking about forced emigration of 400 000 people. Mrs. Member, the Immigration Observatory says, for example, that in 2007 90 000 people emigrated and in 2012 95 000 people emigrated. That is, I don't understand very well, because in 2007, before the crisis began, there were 90 000 people who were forced to emigrate. This before the crisis starts! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u151	Where did you get the numbers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u152	The gentlemen. Members cannot look at a country that has always had many emigrants, always, throughout our history,... [[Oh, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u153	...and count all the numbers as forced emigration. If the gentlemen. Members analyse the increase in emigration, with the most recent official data available, what we have is an average that, compared to the previous decade, is about 10 000 to 12 000 people more per year. This is only to make the discussion, in serious terms, of what was actually the increase in emigration caused by the crisis. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On the issue raised by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who says that we have an ideological process, Mrs Deputy, we have ideological differences, about which we agree from the outset, but an ideological process of destruction of the economy, Mrs Deputy! ... Do me a favor: there are no ideological processes of destruction of the economy, there are ideological differences about how the growth of the economy is promoted, and that is to respect. When the honourable Member puts the matter in this respect, I have a little more difficulty in respecting your position, I must say. With regard to your reasoning about the DTA (deferred tax assets), let me just follow your reasoning. The honourable Member says that we gave the New Bank EUR 2, EUR 8 billion in tax credits. And investors, through this outside world, must be extraordinarily dumb, because even they think they're only going to pay 2000 million for something that has 2, 8 billion inside. Now, if you have all that value to offer, Mrs. Member, why aren't there people to see that value that you see? I have some difficulty in understanding this market view that only Mrs Deputies sees and that the market apparently does not see. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortágua.]] And I explain why, Mrs Deputy: we do not give 2, 8 billion euros of tax credits. What is recognised is the possibility of transforming this value into tax credits, if the Bank has losses in the coming years allowing conversion into tax credits, and is not in all the losses of each year, it is with clear rules. And, if they do, it gives the State the right to have shares, dilute the other shareholders, of a value equivalent to 110 %. The market knows that this is the value of the DTAs and so, Mrs Deputy, is that nobody thinks it's a fantastic thing offered to the New Bank, as apparently you see. If that is true, you must certainly find an investor who is willing to pay at least this value, or more; otherwise, your theory, Mrs Deputy, has very little substance. And, of course, we haven't given any action to the New Bank because we haven't given them anything, because we haven't given them any tax credits. They may have a conversion in the future and, at that time, we may have actions. As for the time being we haven't given them anything, it's natural that we don't have anything in exchange either. Mr Bruno Dias spoke here about privatization and said the government says that the country cannot afford to have public companies. Sir, I never said that. What we say is that there are many sectors of activity where we understand that public companies are not the best solution and it is preferable for these activities to be developed in a competitive environment, in the private sector environment. [[Protests by PCP Deputies Bruno Dias and Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u154	The Estaleros de Viana!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u155	I also know that we have this disagreement, but Mr President, let me remind you that, in spite of an apparent challenge before the trial, I have not heard any complaints from the workers of the Estaleiros de Viana do Castelo, dos CTT or ANA, since they have been privatized. [[PCP protests.]] Do you know why, Your Honor? For example, because they stopped being subject to pay cuts... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to listen to Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u157	It is true, Madam President, it is true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u158	Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u159	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, the workers of these public companies have been freed from the taxes of wage reductions that existed because they were in the public sector and are entitled, for example, to the distribution of profits, which is, of course, something that workers value. Companies remain here, continue to create value in the country, continue to promote employment in the country, continue to pay taxes in the country. It is not a matter of not being able to afford to have public enterprises; we cannot afford to have public companies that spend more than they produce. That, sir, we can't afford it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] When Mr. Jorge Machado asks whether we are going to present a stability programme that is in line with the European Commission's demands or defend national interests, I say to him that we are going to defend national interests and respect the Portuguese that voted mostly for this House in parties which have subscribed to the obligations of the budget treaty. This is called respect for the Portuguese, Mr. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. We have reached the stage of the parties' interventions and the PCP and PS are already registered. For an intervention by the CFP, I give the floor to Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over the years, PS governments, PSD and CDS have been imposing a scandalous tax policy on the promotion of large capital while brutally charging labour income. This tax policy on workers' income was accompanied by a reduction in labour rights, wages and social benefits, as well as by the degradation of public services and social functions of the State, deepening the imbalance in the distribution of wealth between work and capital. The recent reform of the IRC and the changes within the IRS are very revealing of the government's tax options. The nominal rate of IRC was reduced from 25 % to 21 % in just two years; the number of years in which damage can be reported was substantially increased; aggressive tax planning instruments were created, particularly in the context of international taxation. These are changes that benefit particularly large companies and economic groups, allowing them to substantially reduce the value of taxes delivered to the State. As soon as 2014, the first year of implementation of the IRC reform, the revenue of this tax fell 580 million euros. in the first two months of 2015 it has already fallen, in homologous terms, 11 %. At the same time, IRS revenues do not stop increasing. The Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it well try to justify this increase with the anemic economic growth and with the results of the fight against fraud and tax evasion, but it is evidence—that only those who do not want to see—that the brutal increase in the tax burden on labour income is the result of the option taken in 2012 of reducing the number of steps of the IRS, increasing the rates of this tax at all levels and introducing an extraordinary overtax on labour income. As a result of this option, IRS revenue has been fired. In just 3 years — 2013, 2014 and 2015 — the additional revenue in IRS will be more than EUR 11 billion. That is, in just three years, the government wants to charge workers with the four-year IRS. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : over the years the CFP has denounced the tax injustices and injustices imposed by PS governments, PSD and CDS, proposing alternatives to a fairer and more appropriate taxation to the country's economic and social development needs. In particular, we presented in November 2014 a bill on fiscal policy demonstrating that it is possible to tax significantly disband workers and families, as well as micro and small businesses, and at the same time to increase the annual tax revenue, allowing to respond to public investment needs and to finance the social functions of the State. We have shown that this is possible since it breaks with the favor of the great capital, paying it more appropriately. The solutions presented by the CFP in tax matters are fair and appropriate to the country's economic and social development needs. They are solutions that serve the interests of the workers, the people and the country! They are solutions that open up prospects for a better future! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Finance Minister, not only are the public accounts not in order and much less stabilized—just look at debt—as the country today has less conditions to grow and leverage economic development. It is sufficient to look at the level of unemployment, employment levels, which has declined for decades in the last three years, or, if you wish, at the levels of investment, which are only at levels equal to those of today's 1980s before accession to the EEC. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the propaganda of the majority and the promises of the « singing tomorrows », the reality of the facts, the reality of life, of the present and the future, of millions of Portuguese and Portuguese, and this is a reality that denies the propaganda of the government, confirming only, yes, an ancient promise of Pedro Passos Coelho, that, with this majority, the solution is impoverishment. And the last few months have been successful in demonstrating this reality: they have impoverished families, the unemployed, the poorest of the poor, the children and even many of those who have kept their jobs. It impoverished the State, which increasingly sees the quality of its public services degraded: in education, where we watch the most painful school year of our recent history; in justice, with the tacks of the changes without vision and without support; in health, where the reality of the facts leads the government to blame the production of official statistics for the wrong government options or where the government still assumes that the private has grown, yes, with the support of State transfers, at the expense of the public sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it impoverished the economy, with an economic recession which, we know today, was deeper and more serious than it was estimated. When the investment sank beyond anything imaginable, it was not the only present that deteriorated, it was the ability to build a better future that was achieved. A poorest country, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, a country that retreats in the fight against poverty and inequalities like Portugal has retreated in the last three and a half years is a country with less capacity to develop and generate wealth (to use its expression in this debate). [[P.S.'s applause.]] A country that, like Portugal, increases, in three and a half years, in more than half a million Portuguese and Portuguese, the number of people living on the poverty line, going back a decade, is a country with less capacity to develop and generate wealth. A country which, like Portugal, aggravates inequalities, at the point of 10 % richer they have all their income and even more than 10 % poorer, is a country with less capacity to develop and generate wealth. A country that goes back to the 1960s in immigration levels and that records historical levels of breaking at birth rate is also a country with less capacity to develop and generate wealth. One country, Mrs Minister, which is at risk of structural unemployment, in the order of two digits—there are national and international studies that say that we are at risk of the number of structural unemployment pointing to 13 % — is a country that faces a risk that Portugal has never faced, a risk that will clearly — even the Minister will agree — calls into question our ability to grow and develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mrs Minister, a country that bases all its strategy on wage devaluation, the breakdown and cuts in wages and pensions and the huge increase in taxes is also a country with less capacity to grow and generate wealth. And that is the responsibility of your government and your policies, which you came here today to defend once again. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a portrait that the government's propaganda cannot win. And the gentlemen. Members of the majority today have been very concerned about the return to the past. Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem is that in these three and a half years, the country has already returned to the past, in the worst that this has meant for our ability to grow and develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this government, Portugal returned to the past of a poorer Portugal. With this government, Portugal returned to the past of Portugal with more inequality. With this government, Portugal has returned to the past of a less qualified Portugal which invests in education less than it should invest. With this government, Portugal returned to the past of a country with worse public services. And, with this government, Portugal has returned to the past of a country with worse conditions to get closer to the most developed countries and a country—yes, Mrs Minister! — which has returned to the past by losing an important part of its active population. The government has demonstrated a huge problem with INE data. The Minister has been looking for the data from the Emigration Observatory, but I invite her to see the INE data and will not only realize that in the last three and a half years, emigration has increased much more than until now, as we have returned to the worst of our past, to the 60s of the last century, in which the country was bleeding its human resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a portrait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, propaganda can't win. And these are the results of the policies of this government, which have failed and which compromise not only our present but also our future. But they are policies that Portuguese do not accept, they are policies that Portuguese will reject and they are policies that will change, because that is the will of an increasing number of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u164	Mr Seufert indicated that he would ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u165	Madam President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I think it is important in this debate to talk a little bit about what future prospects are and, above all, what the past has been for us not to repeat the mistakes we have already made. The honourable Member spoke here on several indicators to accuse this government of having gone back decades, tens of years, in several indicators.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u166	And you think they have nothing to do with it? There's a need for discharge!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u167	It was possible to have looked at the starting point of this government and to have seen the march back that the Government of the Socialist Party had already done between 2005 and 2011 to realize that this government has often recovered ground in relation to the situation in which you left the country. You see, at the poverty risk rate, the honourable Member says we've been back for a decade. We're not backing back, Mrs. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u168	We're back, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u169	In 2011 the country's poverty risk rate was already equal to 2006 and you had been in government between 2006 and 2011. The gentlemen walked back when they wanted to walk forward, which is an extraordinary thing. So it was the gentlemen who took the country back. With regard to employment, she said that we had been back two decades in 1997. Mrs Deputy, this Government withdrew from 1998 to 1997 because in 2011 the unemployment rate was at the level of 1998. So, Mrs. Member, the PS had already made the march-all, we didn't even have to pay the toll! As for investment, do you know where the PS government left investment levels in 2010? You know what year? You left him at 1992 levels, Mrs. Member! And does the honourable Member say we've been back 20 years? Oh, my God! Podera! We got into the country when you, between 2006 and 2011, put the investment levels of the country at the level of 1992, Mrs. Deputy! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] He also spoke about emigration and said we were back in the days of the New State. What was the number of immigrants that the country had in 2010, the last year when the Socialist Party was completely governing the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u170	It was 23 760!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u171	The levels were those of the year 1967, Mrs. Member! The withdrawal of three decades from this government was, after all, one year, Mrs. Deputy, because the rest was the responsibility of the Socialist Party. Having said that, what the Portuguese today have to ask themselves is whether, above all, this recovery we have already done, we still want to have the budgetary management of the Socialist Party, which is to hide the debt in public enterprises and push the expenditure forward! It is, Mrs. Member, that the debt we are paying today is the debt of the Socialist Party! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And much of that debt will be paid by taxpayers who have not yet been born and are waiting to be born so that they can have in their name a check passed by the Socialist Party called "public debt". [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u172	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u173	Madam President, Mr. Michael Seufert, thank you very much for your question. Mr President, I understand your speech and your attempt to demonstrate that what I said in my speech is not true. But he didn't, because the numbers lied to him. Of course, you can present the numbers you want, but I will also be able to get you to the Bureau, to stay in Ata, the official INE numbers. This majority has revealed a huge mistrust of official numbers, but they exist and can be consulted by those who listen to us, including by Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. But does the honourable Member, when he speaks of debt and debt of the former Government, have the notion of the value to which the debt came with his Government, with the government that he supports? [[P.S.'s applause.]] How do you dare speak of the debt that the Portuguese are paying today? [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u174	Yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the honourable Member finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u176	Thank you very much, Madam President. Not only is my voice not in the best condition as I didn't want to have to speak louder than what is due. Mr President, today's debt is higher than it was when this government took office. And unemployment, honourable Member, remains higher than when this government took office. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] And you, this majority and this government, have two problems. One thing was what they said before the elections and what they did next, which was completely the opposite. And another thing is what they have achieved, or better, what they have not achieved, because neither do you have the public accounts in order, nor is the country today better able to grow and develop. And this is a fact, Mr. Member, that we both can be here discussing and about which we can disagree,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u177	And let's disagree!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u178	...but out there, in the country, more and more Portuguese agree that this government has failed, that these policies have failed and that there is a need to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u179	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questions I have asked you have not been answered. On the DTAs (deferred tax assets), it is not a question of whether or not to respond, whether or not the government is granting unlawful aid to the bank. That is the point. On the financial cushion, the Minister did not respond either. He didn't even talk about the costs to the taxpayer, he wasn't even able to confirm or contradict the fact that we are paying interest on the debt that fills his money and to pay at the same time for the deposit of money that is not ours. Mr. Minister, you can say that the opposition is exaggerating, that the INE is wrong in numbers, but the truth is that unemployment has continued to rise since the end of last year. Even with the emigration and the tricks that the government has managed to hide real unemployment, however, unemployment is very high and, worse than that, there is no sign that there is an reversal of the trend. on the contrary, it is enough to hear the news: now, until AXA Portugal prepares to fire 11 % of its workers in Portugal. This is to stop talking about the aid that the government has given to increase this flow of redundancies, not only when it has facilitated and made it cheaper in the private sector as well as the exemptions it is making at the level of the Public Administration. It should also be borne in mind that more than half of the unemployed do not have access to any social support, that poverty continues to spread and that the generality of families is living in a real and permanent suffocation because the Government continues to say that there is no money to restore wages, that there is no money to reduce income taxes, that there is no money to restore social benefits. But there's always money to help the bank, by the way, not always legally. And it also finds a break to lower the IRC on large companies, as it has lowered from 25 % to 23 % and has also found a break for it from 23 % to 21 %. We also find it strange that investment does not recover, does not give signs of resumption, both public and private investment. In fact, in relation to public investment, the 2014 values were the lowest recorded in the last two decades, according to INE data. Even with low interest, investment does not take off, which means that investment is dependent on the increase in demand. No demand there is no investment. And we all know the government's effort to boost demand: it literally depended on family incomes, so without families incomes there can be no demand. No demand there is no investment, no investment there is no job. That is why debt needs to be renegotiated. The government says there is no money for investment because there is money for interest, so debt is renegotiated so that we are allowed to breathe, seek to channel resources to the economy because there is no people who pay debts without producing, and we can only produce if there is public investment. To my great surprise, Mrs Cecilia Meireles had just said — in fact, a thesis or a liturgy that is no longer new — that renegotiating the debt is saying 'we do not pay'. Madam Member, how is it that renegotiating the debt is saying we don't pay? Oh, my God! Do you know the position of the CDS regarding the debt of the Autonomous Region of Madeira? Maybe, you're not saying that Wood CDS doesn't want to pay the debt! Is that what you're talking about? Or is he? Are you saying the Wood CDS doesn't want to pay the debt? by the visas, until the PSD in Madeira, at the end of the campaign, has already started to defend the renegotiation of the debt. So I ask whether in Madeira the PSD and CDS-PP also defend the « we do not pay ». [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u181	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u182	Mr President, the Minister, in her reply, did not explain that the DTAs (deferred tax assets) are assets for deferred taxes, which exist only because they are a right that banks have to pay less taxes in the future, to deduct it into taxes that they will pay in the future. And they actually exist. And that's because there's actually that they're on the balance sheets, and it's because they're on the balance sheets as active that allow several Portuguese banks, including the New Bank, and most likely the BCP, to work. If it wasn't this asset, which is a future tax bonus, they didn't have capital to function. Therefore, it is not worth throwing the Left Block into the desire to nationalize the bank, because what is really going on is that the private bank is not working without the help of the State through this future fiscal bill. That is why the European Commission is suspicious that these deferred tax assets, which help banks to operate through taxes that will stop paying in the future, are public aid to banks. And here, yes, there's a difference in attitude. It privatizes TAP, privatizes ANA, privatizes all public companies because there can be no State aid to the economy, but then to deliver 8 billion assets for taxes deferred to the various Portuguese banks, there is no problem and already faces the European Commission in a process of possible violation of competition law and public aid to the bank. So, Mr. Minister, I am recasting the question: in the future, where is it going to be cut? What pensions, what wages are you going to cut? What is IRS going to increase? What will be said to people who expect a reduction in VAT when banks stop paying 6 billion, which is the total amount of deferred tax assets, when private banks stop giving this money to the State as their tax contribution? Who are they going to cut in the future? Which people, whom small businesses are going to increase taxes to be able to pay these 6 billion with which banks will not contribute to the state's coffers? What excuse and what scapegoat are they going to find at that time to increase the debt and to cut back on wages and pensions and raise again taxes? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u183	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u184	Mr. President, Mr. As and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before I say something to Mrs. Finance Minister, I would like to tell Mr. Michael Seufert that everything is worth everything, but it is not worth lying, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member said that the risk of poverty in 2011 was already equal to that in 2006. That's fake, either for a person living alone or for a couple. I will give you the INE numbers : in 2005 the poverty risk rate was 19, 1 %, in 2011 the poverty risk rate was 18, 2 %. It's lower and not higher, sir. So you've missed the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the case of an individual living alone, the poverty risk rate in 2005 was 34, 9 % and in 2011 it was 24, 2 % — it also lacked the truth, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now let's look at the job. The honourable Member spoke about employment and the Minister for Finance said that employment has fallen for the whole decade. Well, it's false, Mrs. Finance Minister. According to INE data, in 2005, the sum of part-time and total-time employment was 5.47 million ; in 2008, before the financial crisis, it was 5.16 million. So, Mrs. Minister of Finance, it is not true that employment has fallen for the whole decade. Employment fell, yes, with the international financial crisis. But you know what else, Minister? It fell much more in 2012 than it fell at the time of the financial crisis with the policies of this government. We now see that in 2012 we did not fall only 3, 4 %, we fell 4 %. It was the biggest recession since the Prec, Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance suggested that debt only increased because there was a hidden debt. That's false, for two reasons. Firstly, there was no hidden debt; there were Eurostat rules that Portugal, like all countries, as the PSD governments prior to the PS have complied with the rules that existed. The rules have changed, changed the criterion. It's not a hidden debt, Mrs. Minister! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But let us look at the debt values, because the Minister always suggests that the increase in debt is due only to changing the rules, and that is also false, Mr Minister. I have now been consulted — in fact, I have already told you that in the past — the Banco de Portugal's net series of the hidden debt. Therefore, debt is already normalized throughout the series. I will give you the figures, Mrs Finance Minister : in 2010 the debt was 96, 2 % and is now 130 %, which already includes the perimeter change. Mrs. Minister for Finance. This is not a hidden debt that has suddenly appeared, it is the debt that the policies of this government have created. We now look only at the end of 2011 if you want to exclude a few months: at the end of 2011 the debt was 104 % of GDP and now it is 130 %. Therefore, Mr.Minister, regardless of the year we chose, 2010 or 2011, Mr.Minister of Finance and this government have always increased public debt by more than 20 percentage points of GDP. Do you know how valuable the Minister was in this government's first Budgetary Strategy Document? It was expected to increase only 6 %. Mr. Minister of Finance, almost the quadruple, and it does not have to do with hidden debt or perimeter changes, but rather with a wrong choice of this government in 2012, which, fortunately, was handled by the Constitutional Court. The Minister for Finance also said something shocking that, in fact, sums up much of the cognitive dissonance of this government, and I would ask you to listen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u185	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u186	The Minister of Finance said a little ago something shocking, in her reply, I do not remember whether the PCP is the Left Block: she said that the Government was obliged to increase taxes because of the Constitutional Court and that it wanted to have cut wages and pensions and ended its intervention boasting of the return of wages and pensions. I found that this return existed because the Minister was obliged to do so. The Minister, in the same speech, complains that she has been forced to return and, in the end, boasts of this fact. That says a lot! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u187	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u188	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u189	Mr President, it is up to the Bureau to request the distribution of a document and to submit it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u190	Please identify the document, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u191	I will not ask to defend the honour, because I understand the exaltation of Mr. João Galamba defending the government of his messies. The data requested to be distributed relate to the poverty risk rate and are from PORDATA, which quotes INE, where it is read that in 2010 — but could say in 2011, because the difference is only one tenth — the last year of full mandate of the Socialist Party, the risk rate of poverty after social transfers is 18 % when in 2006 it was 18, 1 %. You chose from the principle that I lied. I could have been wrong, which would have been legitimate, but here is proof that this has not happened. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u192	To request clarification from Mr. João Galamba, Mr. Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u193	Madam President, I do not think I can make a request for clarification, since the Socialist Party no longer has time to respond, and I will therefore make an intervention if the President gives me the floor to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u194	Mr, you may also ask the question. Even if Mr Galamba cannot answer, the question has an autonomous value.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What we have seen here in the last few minutes was an attempt by Mr Galamba to try to hide the lapse he had to admit that in the previous year there was a return of income to the Portuguese. in the final phase, he made an effort to try to prove the demonstrable, as Fernando Pessoa said. But the truth is, it didn't work out for him. It clearly recognized that in that year there was a return of income to Portuguese and that in 2015 there would be a return of income to Portuguese. What I should say here and I did not say — it was important that I said it — is that we are in a week, as the CFP said in its initial speech, in which we commemorate four years in a sad evocation. And what is the evocation? It is the evocation of the moment when the Socialist Party in the Government has clearly recognized its inability to govern the country, its inability to finance the country and put the towel on the ground in a process of almost bankruptcy in the country. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We know it was so, the Portuguese know it was so, the Socialist Party knows it was so—not want to recognize it at every moment, but know it was so. And it's unfortunate that we'll be here four years later at this commemoration. But it was to the government that left the 2011 elections to which you competed to raise the country, consolidate public accounts, regain international credibility, regain the confidence of the Portuguese and, as the Minister of Finance said here today, and very well, try to do so by creating conditions for those who had the most difficulties could endure this period. We must recognise the work that the Government has carried out over four years. What was that job? It was the recovery of sovereignty, economic growth, record growth of exports, imparable indicators of tourism, clear recovery of credibility and recovery of a fundamental factor without which the economy can neither grow nor develop, which is trust. This is a fundamental factor in boosting good investment, creating more and better employment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's question is: where has the Socialist Party been for four years? He was always unavailable for commitments, unable to perceive the reality of the country, always with a great deal of willingness not to help, always looking for his new narrative, as he likes to say, and always orphaned by the PEC 4, of which we have heard systematically. But the Socialist Party cannot continue to hide. You have to take over here today — this was the time, it is unfortunate that it was not — your responsibilities. It's no longer worth trying to get through the raindrops. The Socialist Party must even tell us what its proposals are. The questions I would like to ask Mr Galamba — yes, this was a wonderful opportunity to have shone in this Parliament — are very simple. The PS has to respond to them in the next few days. For PS it is difficult to answer, but it is important that you do: what alternatives do you have for Portuguese? What alternatives do they present for the consolidation of public finances? Or will the PS go back to doing in the next days election campaign, electoral promises, as it did in the past, or will it respond to the Portuguese what alternatives it has for Portugal and the Portuguese? It's just that the Portuguese already know you. And the best advice I can give you is that they're not going around. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u196	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The truth is that this debate has started in a relatively warm tone, but it is difficult in fact to remain indifferent to some of the accusations we have heard here. The CFP brings here today a debate on the troika and reminds me — all of us, certainly, have already had this experience — when we are standing in a traffic light and suddenly there are those more distracted drivers who, before the traffic light that passes from red to green, stand still and do not pull out. PCP looks like one of those drivers. The troika was though a year ago, they still stopped at the red traffic lights and, meanwhile, the country moved forward. As for the Socialist Party, there are, in fact, championships that we do not play. The championship we want to play with, Mrs. Minister, is what makes the country move forward. The championship in which we discussed and competed how many years each took back does not bring anything to anyone, does not bring any proposal, does not bring any solution to any Portuguese! So, Mr. João Galamba, we are not interested in the retreat championship. In fact, this is a typical championship of the refuge and retreat of a party that has not yet been able to present any proposal of life and future solution for the country. They still hold on to the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u198	You guys are still clinging to the past!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u199	... because they can't say anything about the future! The Socialist Party here tested the number of statistics on several numbers. We understand clearly that you have lost this debate, because you are always clinging to the typical attitude of students who study only on the basis of cables. They do the cables, they do the post-its, and when they fall, they don't have a speech. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Note: the Socialist Party has already used the post-it of the recessive spiral. This post-it fell and the PS ran out of speech. Then he used the post-it of the second rescue. This post-it lost the tail and the PS lost the speech. He also used the post-it of the recession. This post-it lost the glue and adherence to the wall and the PS lost its speech. In addition, several speeches were taken, including the increase in unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u200	And it's not that unemployment has really increased! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u201	Mr. João Galamba, this government and this majority have never flagged in arc, but the truth is that there are results that are unquestionable. You can turn around the statistics, but the truth is that the Portuguese, fortunately, begin to feel some difference between the one who was your time and the one who is our time. Clearly, your despair is synonymous with that reality has ceased to give you reason, and fortunately, not for us, but for the lives of the Portuguese. The PS continues to insist on miracles that have not resulted in the past and that will never succeed again. Mr. Minister, one of the topics on which we never heard the PS speak again was the importance of the operation of automatic stabilizers. I remember some debates at the beginning of this governance, in which Mr Galamba has repeatedly spoken about the importance of the government having to let the automatic stabilizers operate, the importance of raising the unemployment allowance, the importance of letting tax revenues fall. Madam Minister, PS is the victim of its own solutions. In order for this to happen it was necessary that we had no debt to pay, it was necessary not to have increased taxes to correct a deficit that had to fall from 11% to 4.5%, it was necessary not to have left a Financial Assistance Programme, from which this Government had to leave to free the Portuguese people and to free the Portuguese economy from the hole and well in which the Socialist Party put us. Therefore, the Socialist Party continues to be the victim of itself and keeps looking back. Mrs. Minister, we already knew that the road would not be easy, but I can tell you that, at least from the CDS bench, we always know that the road is not easy. It's always been like this with us. We did not govern in periods of fat cows, we did not pretend to have the money that we did not have, we did not ask for money beyond our ability to pay to limit the creditors' mistrust of our solvency. None of that happened. Madam Minister, I mean, in relation to a debate that is about troika, that past waters do not move mills. I challenge Mr. João Galamba to ask the Portuguese if they think that the country is better today than it was in 2011 and is surprised by the answer. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u202	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u203	Mr. Deputies, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u204	Mr President, it is for the same purpose that Mr Michael Seufert spoke recently. I reaffirm all the figures I have mentioned here and I continue to say that the honourable Member has failed in the truth. We're printing the report and I'm going to distribute it to the whole House. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u205	Mr President, this was a reply rather than a question on the progress of the work. I asked him to pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u206	Madam President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u207	Mrs. Member, what effect is it for?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u208	It is for a brief request to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings that I may be authorized by the President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u209	Yes, as long as it's about the conduct of the work. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u210	Mr President, it is really about the conduct of the work. As Mr Seufert has requested to distribute a document and has already delivered it, I would also like to have access to the document which Mr João Galamba has distributed, as it has been for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u211	Document is leaving printer! He'll have it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u212	Mrs. Members, please use the regiment figures properly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. For an intervention, Mr Nuno Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Four days ago, four years ago, a press conference was held with the Secretary-General of the CFP defending the immediate renegotiation of public debt as the solution to the serious problems that the country was experiencing. One day later, on 6 April 2011, the Minister for Finance of the Government of José Socrates realized that there was no more than enough in the safe deposit boxes to pay two months'wages, social benefits and to ensure the various functions of the State. With the solution of the CFP, with an internationally discredited State, without being able to negotiate against creditors and having to, in order to implement this measure, not negotiate but unilaterally fail to comply, it was to explain that countries or entities would lend us the money we needed at that time, which is nothing less than half of the national wealth generated in a year. at the time, the CFP did not yet assume tax which, more clearly, today assumes: it is necessary to prepare the country for the exit of the euro. in practice, if we had done, four years ago, what the PCP defended, would have resulted in this desire and without previous preparation. Between the unilateral restructuring of debt, the exit of the euro, the nationalisation of the bank, the administrative fixation of prices and other measures that the CFP has been defending, there is an agenda that is neither by far nor by far innovative. We recognize coherence, although, allow me, persist in the same mistakes and learn nothing from them is a kind of coherence of dubious quality. [[PCP protests.]] This ideological radicalism is going through more or less inconceivable. Perhaps because of the fact that most people are aware that those who do so do not have the executive power to comply with this agenda, many feel that it will not be worth even more careful scrutiny of these easy measures for difficult problems. The PCP bodyrizes the strategy of the front unit and applies as no one the tactic of partial claims to the different social groups and classes that intend to seduce. from there that the compartmentalized discourse that it has for teachers, doctors, this or that class of public servants or sectors of society can even sound well because its practical application would always go against many individual desires. however, if all this could lead to practice, resources would be required that the country does not have and that somewhere would have to go for it. [[PSD applause.]] With the same lightness with which a miraculous solution is presented for debt, the supreme incoherence of systematically devaluation of the need for balance of public accounts and only presenting sectoral proposals, which, if implemented in its entirety, would irreparably aggravate other problems that they intend to solve. in these four years, a lot has changed internationally. There have been countries in Europe that have benefited from significant debt restructurings, but this reality has not been enough to compensate for the need for reforms. The imminent exit of a euro country may, in time, provide another practical example that the models and ideas that the CFP advocates would result in the isolation of the country from outside and with more negative consequences than positive to the population. But I hope, for the sake of this people, that it will not happen. [[PSD applause.]] in Venezuela, so far presented by some palladins in the left of our country as a social model to follow, fights for human rights, against political persecutions, at the same time as inflation and food goods are scarce in merceries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u214	Don't say bad about Venezuela, because Paulo Portas spends his life there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u215	Ecuador, presented as a model for its debt restructuring, is now experiencing the difficulties expected from an economy that is excessively dependent on oil. Even Cuba, in fact, is slowly opening outside. Only the agenda that the PCP has to offer to the country remains irreformable. It is not surprising that for the PCP the worst. If it is true that, without social misery, communism has no followers, it is no less true than ever in history, there was a communist experience that did not bring even greater misery to the people who managed to lead. Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the PCP is in contradiction with history, the PS is outside history. Only in this way can one understand the discourse and practices of his leaders. The PS considers that it had no responsibility to have brought the country to bankruptcy and that it had no responsibility in the Memorandum's measures which were offset by the request for international aid. For PS, his leader, Antonio Costa, was not José Socrates' number two. The results of the polls are not the responsibility of the old..., sorry, of the new leadership. The election results in Madeira have nothing to do with the great leader. The Socialists of PASOK lose in Greece, but the new leadership, more to the left, even has momentum in the media. The PS is with them! Time passes and nothing good wishes. So, it's about taking off this new alternative which, after all, is not even from the same political family anymore. The PS wants to have a new Holland... No, the PS wants to have a new Tsypras... No, after all Matteo Renzi is that it is...! From zigzag to zigzag, between new inspiration and old aspiration, you can even think of a new Antony. Is the old Costa a new Insurance for this majority? [[PSD applause.]] The floods in Lisbon are like the holes: they have no solution. Excuse me, there may even be a solution, but it will cost about 100 million euros, a little for socialists. But that was before; now, 100 % in the Long Mouse is that it will be! Measures to present or see them. Zero! But there's a group of 12 magicians that's going to propose something, maybe there for the summer, there's no one going to work and pay attention to the solutions that shape this alternative of the old socialist singer. Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, exports continue to grow. The country's prospects for economic growth are above government and even above the euro area average today. The new Community framework opens up investment and development opportunities, which the country needs and can take advantage of, if the bets are not merely to win the next election but to work for the future generation. Among the policies that would lead us back to the misery that lived in the outer regions of the Iron Curtain or among the politicians that would make us walk, like previous socialist governments, for a fourth bankruptcy in democracy, the choice should be clarified. No one is free of failures, but the results are there and must be compared in the light of what others have proposed and would have done. We do not doubt that this government is better than the alternatives of left-wing cigarettes. The country deserves better. The current majority is certainly more reliable than the alleged alternatives. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: At the end of almost four years of government, public investment at current prices is at lower levels than in 1996. on that date the public investment represented 4, 9 % of GDP, today it represents less than half. The Government has chosen to de-responsible the State for economic and social dynamisation by reducing public investment by 30 % since 2011. By 2020, the government target is 18 %, the lowest value in recent decades, a clearly insufficient value for the development and progress of the country. The Government, in an unprecedented campaign, is moving across the country to join the Community funds for the period 2014 / 2020. It says that Portugal will receive EUR 26 billion for investment, but nothing says about a very important fact: Portugal will pay EUR 60 billion for interest in that same period. The brutal reduction in public investment, particularly in the social functions of the State, led to the degradation of the quality of life of Portuguese and also to the decline in national production and the deepening of regional asymmetries. To reverse this situation it is essential to bet on public investment. Public investment promotion policy is an integral part of the patriotic and left-wing policy alternative proposed by the CFP. A policy favouring productive investment and the production of marketable goods, increasing investment; ensuring and ensuring quality public services, putting an end to the destruction of the Public Administration and to the dismissal and withdrawal of rights to its workers; ensuring a universal, general and free National Health Service, a public social security system, consolidating its universal and solidarity character, a public school of quality that enables the full formation of the individual; promoting the financing of public programs of fundamental and applied research, rejecting the entrepreneurship and marketing of scientific research; strengthening the role of the State in the basic and strategic sectors of the economy and adopting a policy where enterprises and public institutions favour the national production apparatus; supporting agriculture and fisheries, in particular small producers, and defending existing rows. Public investment, Mrs Minister, is a key element in solving serious national problems, but also in modernising the country, its social and economic structures. A policy that truly takes on the goal of regaining national sovereignty and developing the country must take public investment as a central element in solving the problems of the present and preparing the country for future challenges. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. President. — I call on the Minister of State and Finance for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that perhaps there may have been some confusion about the matter of the DTAs (deferred tax assets) and, because I think it is, in fact, an important matter, so that they are not misunderstood, I would like to clarify a number of questions, which I had occasion to mention when we made the bill here and came to explain it and to defend it with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. First, this applies not only to banks but to all companies. It applies to a very particular category of losses, which are the credit inequalities and the inequalities with pension funds. Of course, banks are the main companies that are covered by this scheme, but not exclusively. This is an important point because, for example, pension funds are not entirely an exclusive part of the bank. I would also like to make it clear that DTAs are deferred tax assets when the principle of the existence of tax credits is something that has been enshrined in our tax regime for many years. What we have had was a change in the regulatory framework of the banks that forced this amendment also to exist so that what was the tax credits could have the same kind of impact on the capital of the banks that it had in the past, as has been explained in due course. In any case, I would like to stress once again that what is in the balance sheet of banks is not automatically and without cost, convertible into a State right, or for an unlimited period of time. the possibility of converting to certain conditions, in particular in view of the existence of losses, part of these assets into tax credits, but in return the State has the right to enter the capital of that bank with shares, diluting the other shareholders by a value of 10 % above what has been placed there, to ensure that taxpayers continue to be safeguarded. This is the tax regime for deferred assets. Do not let the idea that it was a value that the State decided to offer to the banks and that only because it appears registered in the balance sheets was offered. What appears recorded is a question of accounting and prudential rules, but indeed does not give any right to draw, without more and without counterpart, on the State budget. Mr. João Galamba, I think it is interesting that you compared the debt between 2010 and 2014 and on this issue I would like to say to you: first, let's compare what is comparable, which is removing deposits from the central administration. Therefore, in 2010 we had 96 %, in 2014 we have 120 %, because indeed in 2010 there were no central government deposits that had an impact on this amendment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u219	There was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u220	... because what existed at the time was a policy of minimizing surplus cash and the performance of the IGCP ( Treasury Management Agency and Public Debt) was even assessed by this criterion. Between 2007 and 2010 — and this is particularly important — as regards the increase in the change in the debt we are talking about, the primary balance contributed to the increase in debt by 15.7 %, i.e. half of the increase in debt is explained by primary deficits. So we do not talk about interest, we withdraw the effect of interest and we have an increase in debt, only for what is spent more than what is received, excluding interest of 15, 7%. Half of the debt increase between 2007 and 2010 is primary deficit. When we look at what happened between 2010 and 2014, how much did the primary balance contribute to the increase in debt? It contributed 3, 3 percentage points in 34. We compared 27 to 34 and the primary balance was 15, 7% in the case of the socialist Government and 3, 3 in the case of this government. When we look at the interest rate, we find that it corresponds to 19 percentage points, but almost 80 % of this interest rate is inherited debt, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u221	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u222	...because she already existed when we started ruling. This is just to refocus the discussion we had about debt. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u223	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u224	Mrs. President. — To what effect, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u225	It is about the conduct of the work, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u226	Mrs. President. - Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u227	Mr President, apparently Mr. Minister, like Mr. Michael Seufert, also has a problem with numbers, so I will distribute to Mrs. Minister of Finance the data from the Banco de Portugal that show that, contrary to what I said here, in 2010 the net debt of deposits is low from 96 % to 93 %. I am also going to print the Banco de Portugal's Statistical Bulletin to give the Minister of Finance, in order to have a more accurate view of the data, because clearly you do not know the numbers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from the PSD and CDS-PP, having hand-strengthened Members at the end of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the closing phase of the appeal to the Government. As you all know, first of all, the party responsible for the initiative and then the government intervenes. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this request from the CFP, the Government was subjected to a confrontation with the truth. A confrontation with the truth in relation to the real national situation, a confrontation with its responsibilities in the situation of the country, a confrontation with the plans to be bound by Portugal and also a confrontation with the real solutions to national problems. in this confrontation with the truth, the government has plummeted. Leaded because he does not want to tell the truth about the country's situation, nor assume its responsibilities, led because he does not want to tell the truth about the plans he is making to continue the policy of the troika and lead, too, because he refuses to accept that there are other solutions for the country. The government wants to erase the memory of the Portuguese what has been these years of impoverishment and decline. He wants to erase this memory by selling illusions about the real situation of the country, as if the problems had disappeared. They speak of the liberation of the troika, financial cushions, debt sustainability and full safes, while children go to schools with hunger, workers despair without wages and the elderly are sentenced to death in advance due to lack of access to health. [[PSD protests.]] After all, the government does what previous governments have done: wipe out the problems under the carpet in the hope that no one will even give up the elections for them. The Government insists on the invention of the resumption of disregarding the difficulties of the Portuguese, insists on the invention of recovery, despite reality, every day, to deny, insists on the invention of economic and social results that do not exist, because that is all that remains for it in the face of the defeat that it has as right. All that remains for the government and for the parties that support it is to invent a country that does not exist, in order to be able to say that sacrifices were worth it and that have produced results. The PSD/CDS Government wants to hide that it is articulating itself with the European Union to perpetuate this policy. He wants to hide that he is preparing to offer the country and the lives of the Portuguese on a silver tray in the name of compliance with the taxes of the budget treaty, economic governance, economic and monetary union. All they have to propose to the country is the sale of illusions and the continuation of the policy of the four PECs and the troika pact, which is now hidden under the mask of the Stability Program and the National Reform Plan. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD/CDS government does not only have, as it does not want to have an alternative policy to the policy of the PECs and the troika it intends to continue. The Government does not, nor does it want to make a policy other than two pesos and two measures with which it penalized workers and the people for the benefit of the great economic and financial interests. Has anyone heard in this debate that the government assumes that wages and pensions should be returned in the last five years? Has anyone heard in this debate the government claim that it is necessary to produce more to owe less and distribute wealth with more justice by the workers? Has anyone heard in this debate the government defends a public investment programme that modernizes the country and its productive and scientific structure? What does the country provide for equipment, infrastructure, transport networks and communications that respond to current problems and prepare the country for the challenges of the future? Has anyone heard in this debate the Government acknowledged that it is necessary to prepare the future by investing in education, health, social security or culture? No one has heard about this to the government because that is not the plan they want to tie up the country. The plan to which the Government wants to bind the country is the plan for the continuation of the policy of the troika. The situation in the country is not what the government's propaganda says and the exit to the serious national crisis is not in the continuation of the right-wing policy that brought it, it is not in the continuation of the policy of the PECs and the troika; the solution to national problems is in an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy. The country needs to renegotiate public debt, within its deadlines, interest and amounts to free itself from this garrote and to have the resources to make the alternative policy that solves national problems. The country needs to get rid of the so-called 'economic governance' and the budgetary treaty and needs to study and prepare for the release of the submission to the euro. Portugal needs to defend the productive sectors and national production and ensure public control of the basic and strategic sectors of the economy, including the bank. Portugal needs to value labour and workers, through a fair distribution of income, based on the value of wages, full employment, the defence of work with rights, the increase of reforms and pensions, the fight against unemployment and precariousness. Portugal needs to defend public services, the social functions of the State in health, in public school, in social security, a public service of culture. In order to implement this alternative policy, the country needs to renegotiate debt, but it also needs a fairer fiscal policy, appropriate to the country's economic and social development needs and ensuring State funding and public investment. An alternative fiscal policy that breaks with the favour and privileges of the bank and economic groups and relieves taxes on workers, the people, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u230	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u231	The solution to national problems is an alternative policy and, as mentioned at the beginning of this interpellation, the CFP will present a draft resolution that implements this alternative policy. We will bring this project into conflict with the Government's Stability Programme, not because we have illusions that the government can accept the CFP proposals but because this is an obligation that we assume with the workers and the people and we will not fail to comply. [[PCP applause.]] this PSD/CDS government does not expect, or we never expected, anything, but we have an unwavering confidence in the workers and the Portuguese people and in their ability to find the path that breaks with the right policy and leads the country to a future of progress, development and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u232	You have the floor of the Minister of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u233	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has ended by being much more about what has happened than about what we want ahead. But since what has happened is very fertile and useful in lessons we should draw for the future, the debate was indeed useful, although it did not necessarily classify it as very constructive. Still, we will keep trying. The Government has indeed inherited a very difficult situation in 2011 and throughout these years it has had to live with a permanent lack of cooperation throughout the opposition. The forecasts were always catastrophic, never at any time did the government present a positive outcome, and there were many, fortunately, over these years that the opposition had not attempted to destroy — or discredit the source or minimize the importance — but never, never, ever, accompanying the government, even when it was evident that the results were positive for the Portuguese. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u234	I have some difficulty in reconciling this with a supposed defence of national interests. The truth is, they predicted a second rescue, a recessive spiral. Then they prevented the exit with a cautious program, because it was unthinkable to be in other terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u235	It was the Prime Minister! If we don't cut 4 billion! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u236	Since there was no second rescue or need for a cautious programme, in the absence of a better argument, they say we leave, but it is as if we had not left because the policies are the same. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u237	So once again, regardless of what is achieved and the advantages that this brings to the Portuguese, the opposition insists not to recognize it. The truth is that many things have improved, but it is also true that the country continues to have difficulties and challenges. The size of imbalances that have been accumulated since accession to the euro needs time to be corrected. It is not possible, under any circumstances, to do so in three or four years, much less when we have to make an adjustment of this size in a recession and international crisis scenario. It is that one thing is to adjust when everything is going well around us, another is to adjust when our main partners also have difficulties, when lack of trust is widespread, when the crisis is global and not just national. However, Portugal has been able to turn around and has been able to sit at a point where, indeed, we are discussing whether growth is too much or little, whether unemployment has fallen too little or too little. The truth is that we are discussing growth and we are discussing unemployment decline paths. This makes all the difference! We are no longer discussing recession, we are no longer discussing what we discussed before. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u238	It's increasing now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u239	But we are asking the opposition to contribute to the preparation of the National Reform Programme and, I have already mentioned, the CFP and the Greens have chosen not to make contributions, because they believe that they disagree with everyone in the European framework and prefer to make their contributions in another format. We respect it! The Socialist Party has sent us an Agenda for the Decade 2015 - 2024, clarifying, in the letter it capeva, that are the projects for the next 10 years. Well, this was the added value that the PS intended to send, in response to the letter I sent, as a contribution to the National Reform Programme. However, I sent a new letter today, inviting parties to a meeting next Tuesday, to have once again the opportunity to collect contributions and hear opinions, before the Government approves the documents to be sent to Brussels this month. And on the 22nd day, before these documents are sent, we will come here to this Parliament and present them and discuss them. Therefore, regardless of the lack of willingness to cooperate with the opposition, the government will continue to insist, in the hope that something will come out of this side. We may wonder if it doesn't come out of fear of being copied or if it doesn't come out because there's nothing to go out, and I'm inclined to take the second chance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to effective data, we have still seen that exports grow, that growth forecasts and the various variables have been reviewed upwards and that, indeed, we continue to take initiatives to reform the state, to improve the lives of citizens. Even today, in the Council of Ministers, a set of measures for the water sector has been approved, which will allow a very significant reduction in the cost of water within the country, because we are concerned about the costs of interiority. The amendment to the PPP Grant Bases was also approved, an inheritance we received from the previous Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u240	After all, are you a government or a head of household? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u241	... approval, which guarantees a saving of EUR 2000 million, with the approval of the remaining contracts being planned in the short term. This is indeed called to cut into the incomes and supposed interests, that the Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are invoking so much. Mrs. Gentlemen, do you say we don't care about people? Oh, my God! We don't care about people, when we want to lower the costs of water, when we increase the investments inside,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u242	Go under Alentejo!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u243	... when we give tax benefits to companies that settle there, when we guarantee that we have resources to carry out the functions of the State, to maintain the National Health Service, to keep the public school? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, people do not defend themselves with proclamations, defend themselves with concrete policies, with results and ensure that, when necessary, the State here will be to ensure what its fundamental rights are. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-09.u244	With the interventions of the CFP and the Government, the debate on appeal No 21 / XII ( 4 ) is closed. ( a ) and thus our agenda for today. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and I thank the honourable Members. Members who spoke in the debate. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow, beginning at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda: 1 — Joint appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 1292 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Valuating the Formosa River and clarifying the legal status of the Culatra core ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1308 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — for the recognition of the social, economic and cultural value of the urban nuclei of the boreholes of the Formosa river and immediate suspension of the demolition of dwellings in Culatra, Hangares, Farol, Ancão peninsula and islands of the Formosa river ( PCP ), 1394 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition of the economic and cultural value of the existing population nuclei on the islands and islands of the Formosa River and on the Ancão Peninsula ( BE ) and 1398 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ) ; 2 — Overall appreciation of Bill No 835 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Amends the fourth Act No 5 / 98 of 31 January, establishing a new model for the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the other members of the Board of Directors ( PS ) ; 3 — Joint assessment, also in general, of the projects of lein.o 849 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a safeguard clause for the purposes of IMI ( municipal property tax ) and repeals the exemption granted to real estate funds ( CFP ), 851 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recurs the tax benefits of real estate funds in the payment of municipal property tax ( IMI) ( BE ), 852 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary suspension of the increase in IMI ( municipal property tax) in 2015 ( BE), 853 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enter the annual automatic update of the housing value for the purposes of paying municipal property tax ( IMI) for greater social justice ( BE), 854 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introduction of reduced rates of IMI ( municipal property tax for own housing ( BE) and 850 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater fiscal fairness and greater social justice in the Code of Municipal Property Tax ( twenty-sixth amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287/2003 of 12 November 2003 ) ( PS ) ; 4 — Joint appreciation of draft resolution No 1311 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of a national emergency programme for cultural heritage and use of European funds for its financing under the 2020 Strategy ( BE ) of draft law No 840 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 107 / 2001 of 8 September 2001 amending the rules for the inventory, dispatch and export of works and amending the VAT rate applicable to the restoration of cultural movable property ( PS ) — in general — and draft resolution No 1396 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures to protect Portuguese cultural heritage ( CFP ) ; 5 — Overall appreciation of Bill No. 855 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Create the young pass ( The Greens ), in conjunction with draft resolutions 1397 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce school passes ( PS ), 1399 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Return the discount of the 4 /NP 18 pass, extending it to all children and young people up to 18 years ( BE) and 1401 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Reply the discount of the pass below 23, extending it to all higher education students up to 23 years, including ( BE) ; 6 — Assessment of motion for a resolution No 98 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court, signed in Brussels on 19 February 2013. 7 — in the legislative period, there will be a vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 48 minutes.]]
