ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 15 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin our work, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 895 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in the Civil Service ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission and 896 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creation of the Social Assistants Order ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; draft resolution No 1456 XII ( 4. ( a ) — Exceptional measures for inclusive education ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; and proposals for lein. 322 / XII ( 4 ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 37 / 2007 of 14 August by transposing Directive 2014 / 40 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States with regard to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products and related products and repealing Directive 2001 / 37 / EC and Directive 2014 / 109 / EU of the Commission of 10 October 2014 amending Annex II to Directive 2014 / 40 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, establishing a library of warnings to be used in tobacco products which falls to 9. a and 10. the Commission, and 323 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — I have established a family farming support scheme in the Autonomous Region of the Azores ( ALRAA ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda is, as everyone knows, an urgent debate required by the Left Block Parliamentary Group on the health situation in Portugal. The model of the urgency debate implies that the opening is made by the initiative's party and by the government. Then there will be two rounds, following the closure. To open the debate, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After four years of this government's mandate in front of the Ministry of Health, we have a National Health Service ( SNS ) which has been reduced, fragile and with increasingly less responsive capacity to the population's health care needs. The Minister was able to maintain for a time an image that I would put in order everything that was wrong in the SNS: the accounts, abuses, disorganization, profitability of public resources, combating waste — were his words of order. But today it is clear to everyone — professionals, patients and their families — that the aim of this government was only one: to attack the SNS as a universal and public service, to adulterate its nature, to reduce its response capacity, while alongside, even next to, the private health sector grows. The examples are many, but we focus on the essentials. I begin by referring to the hiring of professionals. We live in a situation of descalabre with lack of doctors in primary health care and hospitals, lack general and family clinic physicians and lack specialists. They are missing doctors because Mr. Minister made it easier to get out, he did not put a brake on the anticipation of the reforms, because the large private hospitals, which you protect, would be forced to close the doors if these doctors did not leave the SNS to go there. And he also did nothing to stop the emigration of doctors. And don't tell us they hired thousands of doctors. It was only missing that those who finished the course or the specialty were not hired. But these weren't all hired. You destroyed the emergency teams, facilitating the hiring of doctors through temporary work companies, contributing to the disorganization of the SNS structure, in a sector as sensitive as hospital emergencies. Four years to rule and the number of Portuguese and Portuguese without a family doctor is practically the same. Let's talk about the emergency situation. There are not many words that can synthesize what we have seen in recent months and above all what has happened, and still pass, thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese and their families. There have never been so many dropouts of clinical leaders, with particular incidence in large hospitals, and there have never been so many hours of waiting and even deaths of patients without being seen by a doctor. Only if we go back to the times when there was no SNS! And don't tell us, Minister, that the problem is solved and that everything has been due to a peak of fluency. We already know what your Secretary of State thinks — has the advantage of not smelling at insulting the people. And I quote: "What we saw was well-installed, well-dwelled people in monkeys with antiquated protection, in monkeys parked in appropriate places, some of which eventually transit for other services. We saw people in articulated beds, people with oxygen posts, we saw modern hospitals...”. The protest echoed throughout the country — indignation, Minister, outrage! But Mr Minister, do you also think that what you saw on television reveals quality, "well-installed and well-deserved people"? It's just that when there's a problem, you disappear, you don't even listen. But tell the country today that you agree with your Secretary of State and now say that you also agree with the President of the Institute of Blood, who disrespects this House and discriminates homosexuals in blood donations, overshadowing prejudice to public health, at the very moment we are in the loss of blood donors. Take the opportunity, Minister, and answer the country. For four years, they did nothing in the emergencies, except to cut and invent metropolitan emergencies that died after three months of chaos, as is the case with Lisbon. in the interior, the end of the basic and medical-surgical emergencies covered the remaining emergencies — again chaos. They cut beds in the internment — the order was yours — covered the services, prevented the transfers of SOs from the emergencies to the internment. at the end of four years, the urgency network is worse. He dies waiting to be cared for. Is it quality? We continue to await the conclusions of the investigations into the deaths of unattended citizens. Why didn't they do anything to address this situation? Why didn't they open up any more basic emergencies articulated with the big hospitals? Because they wanted to save at the cost of our health! And don't answer with the language of the investment you made. First of all, because investment is something that has not happened. in this chapter, its crown of glory is to have tried to close Alfredo da Costa and have managed to postpone further four years the construction of the new hospital that Lisbon needs so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u6	Back in primary health care, today there is less accessibility by users and less quality in the provision of care, travel increased, moderate rates increased, transport became paid. People make accounts and know that money doesn't fit for health expenses. And what about the ongoing care network? As promised, the Government cannot fulfill the opening of beds with which it committed itself in 2012. And more: the state gave up being the engine of this network in conjunction with hospitals, delivering this sector increasingly important to private initiative and mercy, as it did also with many hospitals. Madam President, I shall finish by addressing Mr. Minister of Health. The National Health Service was built with the dedication and effort of professionals and with public investment. The SNS has achieved, over the four decades since its foundation, an unquestionable condition: trust, trust of citizens and citizens. Your balance sheet is another, Minister. The Portuguese and Portuguese don't trust you! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u7	Even during the opening of the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister of Health. In the meantime, I would like to congratulate the members of the Government present, because I believe that I have not yet done so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past four years, the National Health Service has been able to respond to the health needs of the Portuguese and the demanding challenges faced by the Portuguese society, and it was no doubt consensual that it was a central point in the social cohesion of the country. Some of the more recent policies demonstrate this reality again: new initiatives and new investments in the National Health and Health Service of Portuguese people have taken place in the last few months. Firstly, I refer to the exemption from moderate rates up to the age of 18, which corresponds to an increase of more than 400 000 free persons, an estimated savings for families of more than EUR 11 million. I also refer to the priority for pregnant women and chronic patients in the assignment of a family doctor; the number of exemptions from moderate rates of more than 6 million users; the adoption of measures to prevent inadequate consumption of alcohol and tobacco—it was to be expected that the part of the prevention had had some word from the Left Block, but again, no word on this fundamental matter; the participation of the anti-pneumococcal vaccine, announced last month, against pneumonia, meningitis and septicemia, offering up to 6 million euros by the end of the year to support families. I also refer to the start of the concrete pilot experience, on the ground, for family nurses or the recruitment of more than 2500 professionals in these first four months of the year only among doctors, nurses and assistants and the growing vaccination coverage against influenza, which already covers more than 65% of people over 65 years of age. The demonstration of this reality is substantially illustrated not only by these facts, but by what is decisive, i.e. the evolution of health indicators: the notification of fewer than 29 cases of tuberculosis per 100,000 inhabitants, reaching a rate of 18, 7 % for the first time, Portugal in countries with low incidence rates, the best result of ever since there are registers in Portugal ; the second best infant mortality rate, also the second best ever with, unfortunately, fewer births ; and also the good results of the Cheque-dentist programme, which have already achieved the expected results by 2020. However, it is important to recall the starting point with which the Government was confronted at the beginning of the mandate: an unprecedented economic and financial crisis, a reduction in the health budget, which was for the first time approved in this Parliament by the previous parliamentary majority, a progressive risk of degradation of health determinants, a high rate of professional form, and a low amount of trained doctors. This adverse scenario required strong courage from the Government to carry out reforms and avoid an unprecedented social crisis. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The risks of not doing so would have been quite serious and with direct and immediate impact on the marked degradation of health indicators. Not acting would have meaning: putting the SNS in question, as we knew it; suspension of supplies to the National Health Service; degradation of health indicators. In view of this scenario, and although politically one could have opted for other sources of funding for the National Health Service, with more than 3000 million debts, such as co-payments or other revenue types, this government chose to preserve the founding principles of the SNS : it kept it funded through taxes, in solidarity and with the greatest progressiveity of its history. Taking this option meant an increased effort, also of negotiation to reach understanding with the different health policy players, which resulted in the conclusion of agreements with the pharmaceutical industry, suppliers, trade unions and creditors. The adjustment was totally asymmetric in the cuts, which was contrary to the thesis of the blind cuts, and the strongest were privileged, such as the pharmaceutical industry, where 50 % of the cuts were made. Courting was also privileged in excessive incomes, waste and fraud. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, subject to daily public scrutiny, exposing themselves and exposing all those involved in their daily functioning, the National Health Service today will make 16 000 emergencies, more than 1800 surgical interventions and 200 000 consultations. The SNS has been able to adapt and consolidate. It was possible to define and go the way for the SNS to be reformed, paying attention to the need to continue to guarantee the right to health protection and to be financially sustainable. The strict commitment to health promotion and disease prevention policies, coupled with the more rational and efficient use of available resources and the fight against fraud, implied strengthening the principles of accountability for results, transparency of public money management and objective and effective impartiality of health policy decisions. Structural reforms have also been initiated, as we all know: the introduction of generics into the drug market; the prescription by ICD, pending for more than 20 years; epidemiological surveillance,... [[Protests from PS Deputy Luísa Salgueiro.]] ... through the National Epidemiological Surveillance System, which will allow us to stop underreporting for the first time, which has always existed; the health data platform, with greater commitment to prevention; the provision of data without parallel in the system. However, it was only possible to achieve the results achieved today, particularly in terms of improving indicators, because, despite the clear restrictions that characterized this particular period of our history, there was a clear commitment from all professionals in the sector. It should be noted that this Government has also strengthened medical careers, with the conclusion of tenders held since 2002 and 2005, opened new competitions for the degree of consultant, opened tenders for senior graduate assistants and sought to ensure maximum resources available to the people. We are therefore the largest recruiter of professionals, both in the public sector and in the private sector. Today, the SNS is stronger, more efficient, better structured. We have difficulties, but we guarantee the basis for it to be sustainable. For this reason, and despite the immense need to do and what we need to improve, our greatest objectives today are the improvement of the quality of life of Portuguese, the gain of healthy years of life and no longer the discussion of the possible survival of the SNS. Much has evolved since the rescue request to the troika! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u9	The first round of the debate is followed, for which the following Members are already inscribed. Members: Nuno Reis and Carla Rodrigues, who will divide among themselves the time available for the PSD Parliamentary Group ; Luísa Salgueiro, by PS ; Teresa Caeiro, by CDS-PP ; Paula Santos, by PCP ; Catarina Martins, by BE ; and José Luís Ferreira, by Os Verdes. First of all, Mr Nuno Reis has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u10	Mrs President, Mrs Helena Pinto, the Left Block has nurtured high expectations for today's afternoon and has even presented this debate as an opportunity to confront the government with the results of its health policies. I would like to tell you, Mrs. Helena Pinto, with all honesty, that the intervention we have just witnessed, of health, of alternative health policies, had very little. Look at the National Health Service under the prism of a television report, want to make the tree to the forest, want to present the part as representing the whole is unfair and disconnected from reality, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u12	V. Ex.a could have mentioned health indicators here, but we did not hear a word about the decline in the infant mortality rate between 2010 and 2014 ; we did not hear a word about the evolution of the average life expectancy ; we did not hear a word, for example, about the evolution of diseases such as tuberculosis, for the first time with 20 new cases per 100,000 inhabitants in Portugal ; we also heard nothing about the fact that there are currently 1, 5 million Portuguese vaccinated against influenza for the first time in Portugal, 1 million of whom free of charge is the result of the policies of this government ; no words also for the inclusion in the National Plan to Vaccination of vaccines against Meningitis and other pneumococcal diseases. But if you couldn't speak in health indicators, because this didn't allow you to paint the picture you tried to paint in the gallery, you might even have resorted to indicators of care activity. The problem, for yourself and part of the opposition, is that between 2010 and 2014 the total number of consultations in primary health care and hospital care increased the total number of surgical interventions and emergency episodes remained online. You, Mrs. Helena Pinto, could have talked about Portuguese access to the medicine, but once again, she couldn't handle it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u13	Not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u14	...because it was not in line with the rhetoric of privilege to the large economic groups. Member of Parliament, please note: more medicines consumed, the cheapest average price of all time, precisely at the expense of the margins of industry and distribution. Promising and criticizing is easy, difficult is to make courageous decisions at the time they have to be made, to defend the sustainability of the National Health Service. The European Consumer Health Index 2014 places Portugal as the country with the 13. the best access to health, in front of countries such as England, Spain and Italy. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, having not you here particularly talking about health policies, I confess that I have difficulty asking you a question on this matter. I prefer, therefore, to confront her with her models and her options. And, as you also spoke in the health investment forum, does you consider it admissible that a country on the brink of bankruptcy, like Greece, has just made an investment of EUR 500 million in military equipment, allocating only 200 million to deal with the humanitarian crisis? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u15	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Carla Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health and other members of the Government, as the Minister has already seen, by the initial intervention of the Left Block, prepare for the surprise of this debate, because indeed we thought we were going to discuss health policies and the National Health Service, but we are here discussing the « foam of the days », the issues that are not decisive in the National Health Service. And you know why, Minister? Because the oppositions are angry! The oppositions are angry with Mr. Minister, in particular they are angry with the National Health Service, they are angry with life in general. And they are angry because, indeed, when this government took possession, all the conditions were met for everything to go wrong. The Minister has already reached the conditions under which he found the Ministry of Health: hospitals in technical bankruptcy; the National Health Service on the brink of collapse; the notices of cut-off of supply to hospitals; a Memorandum of Understanding, which imposes severe restrictions and cuts; reforms that needed to be made. Finally, all the conditions were met so that, in fact, everything would go wrong, but the truth is that, having come back these years, it didn't go wrong,... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u17	Don't! It's been so bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u18	... on the contrary things went very well, and this is the origin of the zanga of the oppositions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u19	Mr Minister, obviously, everything is not right and, as Mr Minister admitted, there is still much to be done, but the health indicators are clear and demonstrate that, indeed, the gains, despite all these conditions, have been many. And the truth is that, as a result of this extremely rigorous management, of the courage to make the reforms that should be done, today we have a National Sustainable Health Service that has allowed us to achieve the extent that the PSD Parliamentary Group and, I think, all Portuguese families have received today with great satisfaction, which was the inclusion of the anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan. We greet her with great joy, with great satisfaction. Only the opposition is not to greet her, only the opposition is that they are angry and, therefore, they now say that she will enter into force on June 1st, but should have entered before. And I ask the PS, above all, the following : being an initial version of this vaccine on the market since 2001, why the PS itself did not include it in the National Vaccination Plan,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u20	There was no scientific evidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u21	... since in 2010 the Directorate-General of Health had already completed the cost/benefit studies and the costs of vaccine effectiveness? Oh, my God! Why did PS not include this vaccine in the National Health Service in 2010 or 2011? Oh, my God! We have lost a long time, it is true, but it was a precious time, because it was at this time that the Minister guaranteed the sustainability of the National Health Service, for today to accommodate the expenditure that the inclusion of this vaccine will originate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u22	Let's see if he doesn't pay later!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u23	Today, the National Health Service can bear this expenditure, when the Minister took office he could not. But today the National Health Service can pay for this vaccine, because there was an agreement, as a result of a very long negotiation between the Ministry of Health and the pharmaceuticals, and it was possible to achieve a behavioral value for the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u24	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u25	So, all these reforms, all this was necessary for the Portuguese families today to have this news and this incentive to be born,... [[Christmas?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u26	...because that's also what we're talking about. And I no longer refer here to the exemption from moderate fees up to the age of 18, because it seems that this is not news, at least here, in this Hemicycle, but it is news outside. But it is not for the Hemicycle that the government is ruling, the Government is effectively ruling for the Portuguese and families. And today is a day of great satisfaction for Portuguese families! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u27	I'm asking you again. Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the times. You now have the floor to Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u28	Mr President, Minister of Health, of course we would like to begin by welcoming the Left Block bench for having scheduled an up-to-date debate on health issues. And we would also like to take advantage of the presence of Mr Minister and his team to ask you a few questions about the health sector in Portugal, although we well know that Mr Minister does not answer our questions. Mr Minister uses the old technique of resorting to the points he is preparing, without answering the questions he has addressed to him, as he did in the gallery, as he does in committee and will do here, because he will certainly continue to make use of the numbers that he has brought before by his office, without answering what the honourable Members are asking him to do. But I am resilient, I will insist and ask you questions, knowing that, as happened in a television report, there are two worlds in health in Portugal: the world of the official camera and the world of the disguised camera. The world that Mr. Minister here tries to bring back repeatedly and successively is a world in which everything is right in the health sector and in the National Health Service, in which the indicators are very favorable and the Minister has, as usual, managed to rescue the National Health Service. Yes, Minister, what happens is that reality is lying every day and the truth is that the images that are transmitted to us by the hidden chamber reveal well what is happening in our SNS, truly without makeup. The Minister says that the National Health Service is fine, but we know that this is a speech repeatedly used by the government, which says that the country is okay, the Portuguese are worse. Here too, in health, the Portuguese are worse. The Minister has also repeatedly used the narrative of budgetary sustainability, and we all know that he injected EUR 3000 million in hospitals. I would like to use an example here, which is that of the Northern Lisbon Hospital — in fact, led by a person of the confidence of the Minister who has already been a member of a PSD Government — and who has received EUR 300 million in order to strengthen his financial conditions. Now, Minister, of the data released in March, we can verify that the Northern Lisbon Hospital Centre is paying its suppliers 501 days. How does the Minister justify that, despite all the cuts he has applied in hospitals, of all the restraints that have resulted in the dismantling of the teams, in the demobilisation of professionals, that he does not know, despite all these cuts and despite the investment he has made, there continue to be situations, that the Northern Lisbon Hospital Centre is a paradigmatic example, in which this does not result? On the other hand, we would like to leave you here a challenge. Are you, or are you not, available to us, naturally with Members of all parliamentary committees, to visit a hospital emergency, without notice, with an official or disguised chamber, and to inform the country of the situation that truly exists there? I remind you of a visit that Mr. Minister made in April, with the exception of mistake—I cannot need the day—in which he visited the Vila Nova de Gaia Hospital Center. You know very well that day Mr. Minister there was all the surgeries were unmarked, because there were no beds to lie down the patients. Is it not true that this has happened and that the Minister is aware of this? In this regard, I cannot help but ask you another question: you felt, or not, say, uncomfortable, to use an euphemism, when you heard your Secretary of State say... Mr Secretary of State, I would like to tell you something if you allow me: your behaviour in this debate is truly insulting. It's not for me or for the PS, it's for the patients. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health is laughing constantly! Every time someone criticizes the attitude of the government and the options that are your responsibility, Mr. Secretary of State laughs, and I am sure that Mr. Minister does not follow that attitude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u29	Don't lie, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u30	What I would like to know, Mr Minister, is not because it is a personal matter, but because it is truly revealing of your political options, is the following: how did you feel when you heard Mr. Secretary of State say, in view of the situation in the urgents of hospitals, of abandoned patients, of patients who died without being cared for, that "what I see is a perfectly normal situation and well-installed patients; the beds are well articulated and comfortable"? Do you not feel rejected by the Minister for these statements? I could take this opportunity to take advantage of it and respect the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u31	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u32	In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to ask the Minister in a balanced way, because I think there will not be many opportunities until the end of the Parliament to do so, to tell us, in summary, how it is, after all, a measure that is as structural as the reform of the hospital. In addition to that door which does not apply, but which remains in force and which is already a real telenovela in the Portuguese legislative process, what does the Minister, after all, leave a mark in the hospital reform, in addition to the failure of the emergencies and the patients accumulated in the corridors? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u33	Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was the announcement by which the CDS waited nine years, this was the decision by which many and many families waited for years. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u35	Prevenar will be free for all children born from 1 January 2015. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And it was Mr Minister and this government that made it a further effort, which is worth the effort from the point of view of public health, because this vaccine protects against infections as serious as meningitis, septicemia, more serious pneumonia, medium-sized otitis, and very varied other serious infections, with health risks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u37	We are talking about very important protection, not only for the children's population, but also for public health in Portugal. But it is also a question of social justice. This vaccine, which has been recommended for many years by the World Health Organization, the Portuguese Society of Pediatrics and the overwhelming majority of pediatricians, has an unbearable cost for many families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u39	The application of the four recommended doses is around 300 €. We had a situation of enormous social injustice between families who could finance this protection for their children and those — unfortunately, many — who could not. This situation of social injustice is over! From now on, she ended up for all children born from On the other hand, it is undoubtedly a measure of support for birth. It does not solve the very low birth rate that Portugal has, unfortunately of the lowest in the world, this is a significant measure, because it is another sign that it is given to families that they may have children, when, so far, they have not felt in a position to have, or that they may have more children, if they wish. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] This, accompanied by recently introduced measures such as the exemption of moderate rates for young people up to 18 years old. And we're talking about over 400 000 people who have free access to health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u41	at present, Portugal has more than six million exempt users. This has never been achieved by any previous government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u42	Well, Mr. Minister, and welcome your team for having made this effort! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u43	The left one, to this one, doesn't say anything! They don't care!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u44	I wanted to conclude by directing me above all to the Socialist Party's bench, which had so many responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u45	And he'll have it again!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u46	... and that has always led to the inclusion of Prevenar in the National Vaccination Program. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u47	You always lead this initiative and do something that is not acceptable on the part of a party with your responsibility: you lack the truth, you are not loyal in the debate and make an unacceptable use of health, which is the main concern of a population, to make party politics. That's not acceptable and it's not loyal! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u48	You want to conclude, Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u49	What I ask is why, once again, we find that good news, such as this announced today, is always bad news for the opposition. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u50	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u51	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Health and the Ministers of Health. State Secretaries. Mr Minister, in his speech, and indeed in the interventions we have already heard from the PSD and the CDS, we have not heard a single reference to the problems identified by users, professionals and services of the National Health Service. It has been able to pass completely alongside what afflicts thousands and thousands of users, thousands and thousands of professionals every day who feel devalued and despised by this government. In fact, Mr. Secretary of State Loyal of the Costa, on the subject of a report, demonstrated exactly this: the total disregard of this government for the difficulties that users feel in access to health care and the contempt of this government for the working conditions of health professionals in this Ministry. Mr Minister, I would also like to begin by addressing one question: it has been announced today—this reference has already been made here—that the anti-pneumococcal vaccine would be introduced into the National Vaccination Programme. We were hoping, Minister, that it would be for everyone. In the morning, it was for the children who were born from 1 June, now, at the beginning of the afternoon, it was for the children who were born from 1 January. Well, let's hope that by the end of this week and next week you can cover all! The truth is, Mr Minister, it is not understood, because discrimination between children in our country is still taking place. Why are children born in 2015 entitled and children born in 2013 or 2014 not? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, isn't the right to health for everyone? Oh, my God! It was important for the Minister to make a reference here. It is that, in fact, we are creating discrimination between those who were born on 1 January 2015 and those who were born on 31 December 2014! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]] And do not come with the argument of 15 % participation, because compared to the 300 € that Mrs Deputy mentioned here is only 45 €. A second question, Minister : in March, he announced in the Health Committee that by the end of the year he would hire family doctors for more than 500 000 users. He said until four contests would be opened during the year 2015. Well, Minister, what is the situation? It is important that you refer, because we see this government now a little in a hurry and running after the damage, because you made a promise that you would assign a family doctor to all users, but it is far from that when the ACSS (Central Health System Administration) identifies that there are 1, 3 million Portuguese who do not have a family doctor. This is in fact another measure which is another consequence of its policy and which demonstrates the failure of this government's political options. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u52	My third question, Minister, concerns the shortage of professionals in the National Health Service. This shortage is exacerbated, the measures of professional and social devaluation continue, the competitions, which are being opened are very insufficient and do not meet the needs, year after year, the Ministry of Health has less and less professionals. And it is this government that, due to the consequences of its rights withdrawal policies, has pushed professionals out of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u54	Only between 2010 and 2014 did 2700 doctors leave.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u55	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u56	I shall conclude, Madam President. of the 2700 who left, 1400 were physicians of the specialty of General Medicine and Family; between 2010 and 2014, more than 3600 doctors requested the declaration to be able to perform functions outside the country; almost 10,000 nurses did the same. And is Mr. Minister here talking about sustainability? You come to speak in combat of waste, when your government is responsible for the exit of thousands and thousands of professionals from the National Health Service in advance and by thousands and thousands of professionals opt to go to the private, because they do not have the working conditions in the National Health Service? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] So the question that remains, Minister, is the following: what will you do to prevent professionals from leaving the National Health Service? What will you do to ensure working conditions, career conditions, professional and social valorization so that professionals want to continue to work in the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u57	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u58	I shall conclude by saying the following: when we talk about dismantling the SNS — and this government does not like us to make this reference — it is because its measures are in fact leading to a National Health Service with less capacity. But I can tell you this: quite recently, on an initiative, a doctor of the SNS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u59	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u60	In conclusion, Madam President, I will mention what a SNS doctor said: "This government is deconstructing the National Health Service because it is not valid professionals, because it does not guarantee them working conditions, but also because it has been closing hundreds of services in our country. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u61	I'm asking the ladies. Members who do not exceed too much of the time of the speeches. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u62	Mr President, Minister, three brief notes for three very specific questions. I don't know if it's worth remembering here the times when PSD and PS were against the freeness of Prevenar vaccine. But I mean as a conquest that this vaccine is now included in the National Vaccination Program. The Left Block proposed this measure several times in 2013 and our proposal was approved here in the Assembly. at the time, the CDS thought it was early, that it was better to study well. [[CDS-PP protests.]] After two years of study, and on the eve of the elections, there was done what was the recommendation of the Assembly of the Republic since 2013. But the question I have to ask you, Minister, is very concrete. We have difficulty understanding the decision that the vaccine only benefits children born from 1 June and we believe that it would be possible, hearing specialists, to determine a period of time for children who have already been born to have access to the vaccine. My question is if you don't consider the possibility of children, in general, and not only those who are going to be born, have access to Prevenar vaccine.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u64	A second note to a second question, perhaps the question that raises me is stupid: I have not heard Mr Minister talk about emergencies. Perhaps it was my distraction, but I think I was quite attentive to your speech and the Minister did not say a word about the emergencies. Now, what is being lived in emergencies in Portugal today is a situation of rupture, it is a worrying situation, but it is also the mirror of the problems of the National Health Service and the problems of the country, because we know that for the emergencies the failures of basic care, the failures of the emergencies themselves and, of course, the social crisis that the country is going through. And while the right is so pleased with the numbers, the Left Block, which is so proud of the National Health Service, a conquest of democracy, does not fail to see figures that concern, for example, that Portugal, on the verge of the rest of Europe, is seeing the hope of life with quality to decrease. This is a fact that should concern us, and very much, and it is an official data, a statistical data. When we look at emergencies, we see the difficulty of existing means and the increase in moderate rates; we see as well as the government's wagering has benefited the private, because in private, the more urgent than they have doubled; we also see that reform has become the most thoughtful alternative for older doctors; we see the need for emigration for younger doctors, while health professionals are hired in a far lower number than those who leave, being so many of them, doctors and nurses, hired as employers, without the minimum conditions to do their work. But the Minister has to answer for what his Secretary of State has said. Do you think that monkeys in the corridors correspond to people who are well-installed in the emergencies or to the emergencies to function well? You have to answer. Finally, I would like to ask you a third question, which relates, in part, to the lack of staff in hospitals. The pressure has been gigantic and has even reached the most basic dignity of health professionals. at the end of March, Members of all the boards that are part of the Health Commission were in the Algarve and were confronted with the nursing union's complaint that there would be nurses to be humiliated, at their workplaces, to prove they were breastfed. The Health Committee was aware of this at the end of March.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u65	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u66	I am about to conclude, Madam President. The Left Block became concerned, went to investigate and we brought the problem to the Plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. However, we had been aware that on April 6, one of the nurses complained to the North Regional Health Administration ( North ARS ). We know that the complaint was answered on April 9 to say that it had been forwarded and on April 13 to say that it was being studied. on the 19th day, finally, the complaint is news and on the 19th night, the Minister, as always, said he knew nothing, that he had no responsibility for anything. It has passed April, we are in May, the director of the hospital center who thinks it is normal to humiliate women who are breast-feeding continues in front of the hospital center saying that he is changing methods and we have not yet seen the Minister do the two things he has to do: the first is to say clearly that occupational health in hospitals does not serve to pursue or humiliate women; the second is to resign those who think he could do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u67	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Minister is very good at telling stories, because his speech was a true fairy tale. Interestingly, it did not start with the classic « it was once», but it began by telling us that in the last four years the SNS has been able to respond to the needs of the Portuguese. Mr Minister, the chaos in hospital emergencies, in addition to the suffering it is causing to the patients, who, in fact, everyone sees, except Mr Fernando Leal da Costa State Secretary, whom he just failed to say that, after all, the patients were in a five-star hotel, is also the reflection of the state in which this government has placed Portuguese access to health care and that it is absolutely deplorable. Unfortunately, what we are going to find is that the government is gradually taking its way, replacing the SNS with the private sector in providing care. That is, when taxpayers, who pay their taxes, need the state, the state will turn their backs on them and then either have resources and go to private or, if they do not have resources, they only have a solution, which is to expect this government to leave. It's like this and it's ready! This is because this government, since the beginning of its mandate, has limited its health policy to cuts behind cuts, in an area as sensitive as health, and in the closure of services throughout the country. The purpose is clear: what the government wants is to fatten the private sector market in the field of health. This is in fact an ideological option to favour private groups with health interests, or to do so they have to die while waiting to be cared for in hospitals. I would just like to give you an example, which you certainly know. CUF hospitals in 2014 had an increase of 8, 6 % in private health care activity compared to 2013. Only the Mello Saúde Group guaranteed in 2014 the net positive result of 16, 4 million euros well above 12, 6 million 2013. Therefore, Mr Minister, only in one year, Mello Saúde has grown to EUR 4 million from EUR 12 million to EUR 16 million for profit. But we must not forget that more than half of private hospital care is paid by the SNS and is paid by the public subsystems. In other words, the government cuts into public health services to fund private service. This is the ideological orientation of this government, which penalises the generality of people to favour a few. Mr Minister, about four years ago, at the initiative of The Greens, the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party, the Socialist Party and also the PSD, which, in fact, was very involved in this issue, the Assembly of the Republic unanimously approved a recommendation with a view to the creation of the Local Health Unit of the High Thame and also measures for the Chaves Hospital. Recently, the Valpaços Municipal Assembly, on a proposal from the PSD, approved a motion unanimously demanding not only the creation of the Local Health Unit of the High Thamega, but also urgent measures for the Chaves Hospital. Mr Minister, it has been four years and because of the respect that the peoples of the Trás-os-Montes must certainly deserve from the Government, but also because of the respect that the Government must have for the Assembly of the Republic and for the decisions that the Assembly of the Republic takes, I would like to know on what foot the establishment of the Local Health Unit of the Upper Themega is and what measures the Government has taken over these four years to respond to the needs of the Chaves Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u69	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u70	Madam President, I begin by answering the questions of Mrs Carla Rodrigues, Teresa Caeiro, Paula Santos and Catarina Martins on Preventing. In fact, I would like to stress, firstly, that we include the vaccine in the National Health Plan, making it universal and free for children born from 1 January 2015. Then there is a second factor, which is a sharing for both adults and for children who were born before, which was also non-existent. And thirdly, there is the administration of 40 000 doses of the vaccine through the negotiation that has been made for risk groups. But there is a fourth effect that, as some know in this room, is extremely important: after the vaccination of children, in a larger number of people we are beginning to have a cross effect that will benefit the elderly. The most positive effect is indeed in children, but in the future it will also be in the elderly. Regarding the question of 1 January or 1 June, it is already clear that it is 1 January and, responding to Mrs Catarina Martins, it is clear that, at this time, the Directorate General of Health and Infarmed are examining whether there should be another type of transition. Therefore, this is an issue that will also be resolved quickly. But, seriously, discrimination was not to have participation and could only have the vaccine that could pay it. in saying that there is discrimination now taking Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, I would like to congratulate her on her resilience, which is greater than that of her benchmates Ana Jorge, Manuel Pizarro and Antonio Serrano, who, with pity, were selling year after year. We find that the honourable Member and the President of the Health Committee are the most resilient, and therefore I would like to welcome them, because we know that it is not easy to be in health, which is such a demanding area. Regarding the issue of the sustainability of the Lisbon-North Hospital Centre, as we know the average time of payments of hospitals has been decreasing. Obviously, there is debt and it will continue to exist. But what does not exist is an uncontrolled debt, nor the threat of suspension of supplies as it existed a few years ago. This debt will fall in May, as it has already been in April, because, as Parliament knows, money has been made available to further regulate debts. On the other hand, as this Parliament has approved, I can remind the honourable Member that there is a contribution on the pharmaceutical industry which, precisely, will allow hospitals to reduce their debts. with regard to the question of trust in the President of the Lisbon-North Hospital Centre, she is in fact as great as we have in the President of the Lisbon IPO or in the President of the Local Unit of the Alentejo Coast, Mrs Deputy. I have confidence in the presidents of the hospitals, because I think they're doing their best. On the question of hospital reform, and in order not to become annoying, I will only mention a few measures that we have taken. The first fundamental measure was this House to have approved the inclusion of EPE hospitals in the central government's budgetary perimeter, which makes it impossible for there to be the budgeting that has always existed in the past; the second measure was that of the electronic prescription of medicinal products and complementary means of diagnosis; the third was that of the introduction of an international reference system of prices for hospital medicine that had never existed; the strengthening of medical careers was also done. The Socialist Party, the Communist Party, which talks about dismantling, and the Left Block forgets that it is this National Health Service that makes training more than 95% of all professionals today. He did during these years of the crisis and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u71	And then they're all leaving!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u72	We assured them the conditions to be trained, strengthened nursing careers, constituted a palliative care network, created a hospital therapeutic form, increased the rate of outpatient surgery. I could continue and list many more measures, besides, when it comes to investment, the Members. If you forget that we opened and started the Hospitals of Lamego, Amarante, Vila Franca de Xira, Loures, Guarda and the Materno-Infant Center of the North.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u73	Nothing works, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u74	Therefore, all these hospital reform measures are following their path and have already had significant results. Mrs Paula Santos, what afflicts Portuguese is, in fact, access to health, the price of medicines, which they know was of the few things that came down and that enabled them, in this period of crisis, to consume more drugs at a very low cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u75	And those who can't afford it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u76	On the other hand, with regard to the contests that have been announced, I can say that, until next week, the two contests...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u77	Promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u78	It's not about promises, Mrs. Deputies. Since we got to the government we've always done this! As I said, until next week, the two medical recruitment contests will be authorised. The people who finish their specialty know that they have a vacancy to enter the National Health Service. And we're going to offer another 1100 vacancies for specialists, after we've hired 1900 newly licensed. in the case of the operational assistants, which was a concern of the CFP, I hope that the honourable Member has already registered that we have hired more than 500 operational assistants only this year. On the other hand, contrary to what the honourable Member says, today we have more doctors in the National Health Service than we had last year and even four years ago, and today we have more nurses than we had last year. With regard to the question posed by Mrs Catarina Martins of the urgent...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u79	Interns aren't doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u80	Mr. Deputies, aren't you doctors? Oh, my God! Sir, be careful what you say! You think you can disrespect doctors in a way!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u81	They're doctors in training!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u82	Mr. Deputy, frankly! You think you can say everything! With regard to the matter of urgency, Mrs Deputies, we know that there are difficulties, we know that there are problems. With the intellectual honesty that we should all have, we know that several of the problems are structural and that, fortunately, some of them have already been solved, others will still have to solve them. in the case of emergencies, we did not look to the side, we took more than 12 measures, of which the first was the improvement in the screening, i.e. the updating of Manchester screening. Secondly, the possibility, for the first time, after a long discussion, of a prescription of additional tests by nurses in the screening. Third, the opening of continuous care beds. Fourthly, a set of health prevention measures as there is no parallel, which will obviously only affect the future emergencies, but which are essential measures to avoid such structural problems, such as tobacco, the case of alcohol, which we are talking about, and the set of quantified hospitalizations that can be avoided, for example, with the vaccine Prevent and also the reduction of hospital infection. Of 12 measures, these four, Mrs Deputy, are the responsibility of the Secretary of State. When you ask me what I have to say about what Mr. Secretary of State has done in emergencies, I look at the measures that have been taken to improve Portuguese access to health. But we also restructured the emergencies. Madam Member, it is worth seeing what is wrong and being dissatisfied but also finding that today the urgency of Faro has nothing to do with what it was; that of Figueira da Foz has nothing to do with what it was; that of Castelo Branco has nothing to do with what it was; that of Guarda, as you know, is new; Loures, is new; Vila Franca de Gira is new; that of Portimão is much better; and that of Leiria was reformulated. Therefore, they are concrete aspects, with concrete improvements, such as the case of Portalegre. The honourable Member asked: "Is everything perfect? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Don't! We must resolve the case of the urgency of Amadora, which is a structural case ; we must resolve the case of the urgency of Barreiro / Montijo ; we must resolve the case of Coimbra, which is expanding its urgency ; we must resolve the case of the urgency of the West. Therefore, we know very well what structural cases are and also, at the same time, it is worth seeing what has been the evolution of what we have already done. Mrs Catarina Martins has asked another question. He said that the urgency problem was due to moderate rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u83	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u84	It is exactly the opposite, Mrs. Deputies. It's because the moderate rates aren't deterrents that people go there. And, happily, they're going! If they were dissuasive, as the honourable Member says, there would be no increase in access. On the other hand, we have 7 million people who go to the National Health Service and we encourage them to go there. We want people to move there, yeah. Obviously, with greater influence on the programmed part, this is what we are doing, for example, with this vaccine Prevent. We are calling for many — and I would ask the President for another 5 seconds' tolerance just to give information — because more than 100 000 doses of Prevenar vaccines are sold today. That is, there is a very large set of children taking this vaccine. So what we wanted was to protect all children, to end this true discrimination between those who had rights and those who did not, call them all to the National Health Service, because not all were going there. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u85	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the second round of the debate, now to request further clarification. for the PSD, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u86	Mr President, Minister, I believe that if there was a sovereign moment in the history of our country, it was the creation of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u88	But, in the history of our country, we had a second sovereign moment, which were these four years of governance, in which the National Health Service was reformed, in which the National Health Service was safeguarded and sustained. And this happened at the worst of times. It happened at the time that the country was under an economic and financial assistance programme, a programme that was negotiated and that was committed, on behalf of the country, by the Socialist Party. It happened at the time when, months later, the Socialist Party became irresponsible of the given word and of the signed word; at the time when the Socialist Party, after having sunk the country, wished for a second rescue; at the time when the Socialist Party called for a recessive spiral; at the time when the Socialist Party completely healed any commitment to the benefit of the National Health Service and which now dedemands and denies the results obtained. But, on the other hand, your leader, Dr. Costa, takes advantage of the results obtained to start making a set of promises, the last of which yesterday, on the steps of the IRS, not of course fulfilling what you want. I said that this happened because there was a positive discrimination of the health sector in Portugal, a discrimination that is patent and undeniable in the four approved budgets and there was a clear, courageous commitment that this government and this majority took and led to the consecration of a set of measures. Where was the Socialist Party at the time? I wasn't! The situation is undeniable: the debts that have been assumed; the debts that have been welded; the health indicators are the best of all; the care delivery has risen in all indicators (in consultations, users, primary health care, nursing consultations, emergencies, surgeries, scheduled surgeries); the more than 700,000 Portuguese have a family doctor; the incentive for doctors to move to deprived areas; the 161 USF (Family Health Unit) ; the new 30 health centers... Mrs. Helena Pinto said there was no investment. Mrs. Deputy, go to Amarante to visit the hospital, go to Vila Franca de Xira, go to Lamego, go to Guarda, go to the Northern Rehabilitation Center, go to the Northern Mother-Child Center, go to the Argoncilhe Health Center. [[Protests from BE MEP Helena Pinto.]] Madam Member, I hope you're not sick and sick, but if you have this unhappiness, go to these places and see the investments because they're there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u90	Done by the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u91	at the time when the Socialist Party presents a 95-page report, entitled A decade for Portugal, which is no longer more than the same, is to judge that the country is available to embark again on an adventure that has already had its results, proven by a very recent past of four years, what is extraordinary is that, in a report of a decade that the PS foresees and either for Portugal, there is no measure on the health sector, beyond Dr. Costa is already undoing this report because it has already said that it is not a Bible and therefore there will be a further test. This report was submitted to the PS by a group of independents, a group of wise men such as Mr Vieira da Silva — Minister for six years...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u92	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u93	I will finish, Madam President. ... and whose recipe is so well known — Mr Galamba, Dr. Elisa Ferreira (the so-called "independent" wise men)! ... ).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u94	All right! Well-known! [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u95	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u96	I will finish, Madam President. You present in this debate the register of having buried the country and given it to a long winter four years ago and come for this debate hidden in a 95-page report, in which they do not have a measure, a proposal, a strategy, an idea for the health sector. You can still intervene and I would like to know what you, after all, propose to the health sector in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u97	I'm still asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please respect the time of the regime. by PS, you have the floor to Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u98	Mr President, Minister, I would like to leave a previous note regarding the reference you made on our presence at the Socialist Party bench. I have bad news, Minister : we will continue! It is unfortunate that the Minister does not have the opportunity to listen to us, because the Minister is that he will not be able to continue. That's what Mr. Minister won't have! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Madam Secretary of State, for further announcements that Mr Minister makes, he can no longer erase the dramatic consequences of his policy for the patients. But let us make more announcements, Minister, provided they are to add rights to the right to health we will support. Anyway, I agreed to make a clarification here. in the Government of the Socialist Party, we had a technical requirement: we would only include vaccines in the National Vaccination Plan when there was sufficient scientific evidence. Having made this clear, I hope that the Minister has followed the same criteria and that his coming and this announcement today to Parliament is not just a happy coincidence! The Minister has moved from a Ministry of great budgetary rigour, from the medians, to the repeatedly endless statement of payment of the debt to suppliers, to a Ministry where the solution to the problems is in bad shape, of the last hour. Budget implementation is no longer a concern, we know, Minister, but it has no illusions: it leaves an SNS devastated, made up of the budget narrative until it is fictional. It is enough to speak in the hospital shed, the lack of medicines in hospitals — or, where there are, are not enough for all those who need them — of the accelerated authorizations to hire doctors, of emergencies where the patients appear, but the doctors do not. When work teams are disorganized, productivity decreases. Minister, we know that health professionals are exhausted—and here I leave a word of appreciation for them all. The wager should have been in primary health care, where the situation is no better. I have data that there was only the opening of a family health unit this year. Confirm? in these care, we also include health centers, the creation of home support units — were all missed opportunities. It should be clarified, however, that the Socialist Party was doing a reform of primary health care, which I used to say, and I repeat, in the process of consolidation, and the Minister represented, with his policy, a backwardness. We also assume that there are difficulties, of course. What we never did was deny the evidence. Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, if they continue to fail to bear reality, I advise you, as Jorge Luís Borges said, « at least change their conversation». [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. President. — by the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u99	Mr President, Mr Minister, although it is not — and sometimes even by the reaction of the Chamber — a subject that seems to correspond to the importance given to it by the Portuguese people, I would like to welcome the fact that we are talking about health, because it is important to do so today. But we must speak with seriousness, with objectivity and with rigour.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u101	I would like to say that in order to speak seriously, in fact, as Mr Minister did well, it means recognizing that there are problems, that there are things that are not right, which, in the case of health, implies people in suffering, and that is certainly how sensitive and we are not indifferent. We therefore want to improve what is not right and go further. But speaking seriously and strictly implies going beyond cases and going beyond factual aspects, it implies presenting and evaluating results, not instrumentalizing suffering, nor generating more social alarmism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u103	in this measure, I would like to speak seriously of hospitals, to remember facts and results. Since 2011, and in times of crisis and restrictions, every six months the opening of a new hospital unit is recorded. Investments and works were made in about 30 emergency services. Perhaps it would also be justified to report on these 30 services where these improvements were made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u105	More than EUR 917 million per year was increased, which represents more than 23 % compared to what had happened earlier, the financing of EPE hospitals ( Entrepreneurial Public Entities ). And don't get scandalous because we're talking about debt reduction, because we're not just talking about numbers, we're talking about more people who have now, yes, stopped having their National Health Service threatened and so we've given more care to more people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u107	What we must also get used to, for the sake of seriousness, is that, when we talk about hospitals, we have to talk about one of the greatest current challenges in health and society, which are aging and increasing chronic diseases. We cannot only focus on what is happening in hospitals in this debate, arguing with the reduction in the number of beds. To deal well with chronic and end-of-life patients, it is necessary to increase the response given to them and more appropriately to the chronic area. in this measure, I would even like Mr Minister to draw up what has actually been done, because, when we talk about reducing the number of beds in hospitals, I do not hear about the increase in the number of beds in continuous care and the area of palliatives, where, clearly, it is necessary to go further, but that, indeed, has been done and with clear measures that have been taken. in this measure, and to conclude, Madam President, what I would like to remind you here is that, despite the vaticinio of the end, decommissioning, the destruction of the National Health Service, it can today, by means of measures taken by its team, ensure access to more Portuguese and with greater efficiency. I would like to acknowledge here the very important role of health professionals who, at such a difficult time and in crisis, reaffirmed the quality and competence of their service. I can therefore say that we will insist that we do more and better, but we cannot do a serious health debate for the benefit of all Portuguese people. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u108	for the PCP, you have the floor to Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u109	Mr President, Mr Minister, out of his initial words, the idea is that the model that the Government envisages and postulates for hospitals is a model that works on the basis of training doctors. What the CFP defends is the model in which the right of these doctors to be trained is respected. But the data from the social balance sheet also clearly deny what Mr. Minister says. It is that 42 % of the doctors of the National Health Service are over 50 years old and 28 % of the doctors are in training. These doctors who are over 50 years old, as Mr Minister knows, will be absent sooner or later and will be needed to train these new doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u111	The Minister said that the National Health Service forms doctors, it is true, but it is at risk that in many services this training cannot be carried out, given the lack of professionals and specialists. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u112	The Minister, in his initial speech, drew a reality which is not that of the National Health Service. The reality of every day and official data clearly refutes the idea that the Minister wanted to pass. With regard to the emergency situation, for whatever further measures the Minister has announced, the situation remains in ruins. And it continues because it is not conjuncural — the situation is not due to heat or cold waves — but, yes, structural and its causes are rooted in the policy that this government has in relation to the SNS. Patients remain hospitalized in emergency services in monkeys, corridors and cadres. Mr Minister, this is the reality that you and your government want to deny. We're just passing through Setúbal's hospital and we see this reality every day. And, see, this reality is also confirmed in the Barreiro hospital, which recently led to the resignation of the nursing chiefs. In January, the Government came to the Assembly of the Republic to announce — and today the Minister has already said so — a number of conjunctural measures, of course, to solve structural problems. We are speaking specifically, in the reopening of the number of beds and in the hiring of more professionals. We know, Mr Minister, that many of these beds that have been opened will be closed again. The questions we are asking you are the following: does the Minister confirm that these beds that have been reopened will be closed? Confirm that many of these hired professionals will be fired, will they leave the National Health Service? Is this the reality? These are the questions Mr. Minister has to answer. Mr Minister, you have said so many times, the reality and official data deny it, as the INE data deny it, which the government, in fact, in a drift of denial, has challenged. Mr. Minister, reduced the number of beds in public hospitals but at the same time increased in private services, increased in private hospitals. And INE data say this: in 2013 there were less than 3700 beds in public hospitals than in 2002 and in the private ones in the same period opened more than 2000 beds. After all, it seems that beds are needed, because if they didn't, they didn't open them in private.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u113	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u114	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u115	I conclude by saying that more than tripled the supplementary diagnostic examinations carried out in the private sector. Mr Minister, in view of these revealing data, it is true what the CFP says, that the policy of de-investment that the Government has for the National Health Service is affecting this reality. We heard yesterday — and I am finished, Madam President — by the voice of the Coordinator of the National Mental Health Programme, that the Government will change the model of continuing care. What we ask you, Minister, is whether the government will opt for a transitionalization, leaving the principle of home support.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u116	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u117	And I conclude, Madam President. Mr Minister, this is serious for patients with mental disorders, but above all it is confirmation of what the CFP has been saying: this government transfers from the public sector to the private sector the provision of health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u118	Mrs. Deputy, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u119	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that this is the policy that the Portuguese will severely defeat in the next legislative elections, Minister! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u120	I would like to ask the honourable Members again. Ladies and gentlemen who respect regiment times. by the Block of the Left, you have the word Mrs. Helena Pinto.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u121	Mr President, Minister of Health, PSD and the majority believe that a television report has no credibility. Only total insensitivity and maximum political irresponsibility enable the PSD to address in this way the situation that still exists in the emergencies in our country. The Minister, in his initial speech, criticized the Left Block for not talking about prevention. But, see, Mr Minister, who is responsible for health policies in Portugal, made an opening intervention in this debate in which he ignored emergency services. Minister, how is that possible? Oh, my God! The emergency services are not a fundamental, central, neurological part of the National Health Service? Oh, my God! How is it that the principal responsible for health policy, after everything we have seen, what we have heard and what we have read, can ignore? Oh, my God! It's awful! It's awful! Mr Minister answered only after he had been questioned and yet he did not answer everything. Therefore, in the name of the intellectual honesty that Mr Minister has invoked, let us see the fact. Mr President, there are difficulties in emergencies, there are problems in emergencies, there are structural problems and they have taken 12 measures. Twelve measures, Minister? of these 12 measures, what is the structural measure to solve the urgency problem? Which one is it, tell me? Mr Minister, do not tell me that it is also Preventing, as I said. Mr. Minister, destroyed teams, reduced number of beds, exponential increase in emergency admissions... Mr. Minister did not move a straw, allow me to express it, by basic emergencies. He did not even hear proposals from hospitals, who wanted to articulate basic emergency services with the medical-surgical and polyvalent emergencies. What is the list Mr. Minister wants you to read? Lisbon, Porto, Setúbal, Medium Tejo, Alentejo coast, Algarve, Garcia da Orta, Santarém, Guimarães, Barreiro. What else? Six — no, Sixal not, because Sixal is such a fact that there was no investment by his government, because the Minister and the PSD bench are here talking about investment, but the Minister knows, and on behalf of intellectual honesty, that all hospitals that were created come from previous governments. Your government has done nothing in this area. Nothing! In addition, Mr Minister, there were deaths in emergencies, which had never happened before. I do not want to demagogy about this situation, Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u122	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u123	No, I don't want to! You know what I want, Minister? Responsibility. I want the investigations to be accelerated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u125	I want answers, I want priority in research. Citizens and citizens need to know what happened in emergency services, and that is their responsibility. You can give the order: « Accelerate investigations! Or are you waiting to show the results when? After the elections? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u127	Mr Minister, time is not much and the matters to be dealt with are immense. I end by saying that the emergencies are available beds, they're cute, they're wheelchairs, they're teams, they're doctors, that's all. But emergencies are also something else, they're respect. I respect those who go to the emergency, respect the patients. Furthermore, it is not by chance that some hospitals, including Garcia da Orta, are retreating in what is a conquest of the humanization of health services, which is the right to follow-up, the patient being accompanied by someone of their confidence. Mr. Minister could also have a word to say about that. But I return to the respect that it is necessary to have for all those and those who turn to emergency services and that respect has not existed. And, Minister, you do not look at the statements of your Secretary of State, but you should look. Do you want to know what a good measure for emergencies would be? To resign Mr. Secretary of State Loyal of the Costa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u128	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u129	...because Mr. Secretary of State Loyal of the Coast will allow the monkeys to build up because that is quality. Minister, have the courage to resign, take this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u130	For the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u131	Mr President, Minister, on the establishment of the local health unit of the High Thames, not a word ; on urgent measures for the Chaves hospital, not a word and I remember that this matter was the subject of a unanimous resolution adopted in this House. But the silence of the Minister, in fact, reveals only the'respect' that the Government has for the people of Trás-os-Montes, to whom, for a few months, it will certainly ask for the vote again. Mr Minister, we are experiencing a true technological revolution in the field of health, but we are all reminded of the way the Government managed the process of new hepatitis C treatments. It was necessary to die and it was necessary for the Minister to have been confronted by the Parliamentary Health Commission so that the Government could unlock the new treatment for patients with hepatitis C. It took all this and it was still necessary to wait two years for the government to move. Mr Minister, today there is news that, in the near future, probably soon, new therapies will emerge at the oncological level. I would like to know whether the Government has already begun to consider this possibility, that is, whether it has already sat with the partners to discuss the matter or whether we are going to have to go through the same sad episodes that we have had in the case of new treatments for hepatitis C. I would like you to tell us something about this. Then, Mr Minister, I have to ask you a question, which has already been discussed for a more than once, on which the Minister has referred to silence. Mr Minister, it has long been concluded that, for example, the transmission of the AIDS virus has nothing to do with risk groups; at the very least, it will have to do with risk behaviors. Mr Minister, how does the Ministry of Health admit that homosexuals in the middle of the 21st century can be discriminated against in the blood donation? I think Mr. Minister can't get out of here today without saying anything about it. On the statements by Mr. Under-Secretary of State, that the patients were almost in a five-star hotel, also said nothing. Now, on this point, I do not think that the Minister should either leave here without saying a word. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u132	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u133	Madam President, on the issue previously raised by Mrs Catarina Martins on breastfeeding, I should like to say the following: I had the opportunity to express myself publicly on this subject, obviously after knowing what was going on, and I can reaffirm here in Parliament what I said. First, the method is that of the medical certificate — this is the rule. Secondly, it is necessary to preserve the encouragement to breastfeeding irrespective of the time limit — this is the direction of the Ministry of Health, obviously through the Directorate-General for Health. Thirdly, it does not seem appropriate to me the method that was followed and should not be used again. I also believe that the issue of fraud must be combated, but I think that we all agree. In short: medical attestation is the rule; the incentive to breastfeeding must exist; and it is also necessary to have other methods, which are not used, to combat fraud, always in residual cases and never as a method to be used. Mr. José Luís Ferreira raised a number of questions, one of which was also put by the Left Block and the PCP on public money and private and public revenue. There's a rule here that all the gentlemen. Members know: public spending is always private revenue, it can be more or less intermediate and that is why there are so many advocates of increasing public expenditure. But in public terms, in addition to the INE presenting data that are hardly comparable, on justice issues with the National Health Service — one cannot compare a multi-purpose urgency with a permanent care of a private hospital, we are not talking about the same things, so it is not comparable — it must be said that the INE data say that hospitalizations are made in the public by 70 %, the emergencies by more than 80 %, the hospitalization rates by more than 73 %, the hospital consultations by more than 70 %, the major surgeries by more than 75 %. So, if you guys are. Members would like us to condemn the private sector, not do so. And we think it is unreasonable, nor is it what is in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, whether the private sector is residual or not. We understand that the public sector is fundamental. So we kept him and strengthened him. But I would also like to say something else: to have intellectual honesty, when we talk about private and public, then the honourable Members. Members should recognise that it was the public sector that induced price reductions in the private sector. When we're talking about public and private, it's worth knowing what's the biggest expense you're doing with the private. The biggest spending on private, health, in Portugal, as you know, is on drugs, which is EUR 2000 million and which is where we cut the most. So, when you're looking at the questions, it was good that they all showed up. And, on the reduction of private revenue, which we did without any pleasure, but because it was necessary, it was us who reduced the most and the strongest, which was in the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u134	That was because of people's ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u135	Then we also removed the hospitals from technical bankruptcy, which I think is not little in terms of what the future is. And, on the other hand, we have continued to ensure training — and responding to the honourable Member's question of training, we will again make the distribution of vacancies of one more competition for the top of the career, for senior graduates, since the former has already been completed. On the question posed by Mr Miguel Santos, on the positive differentiation, I would remind you that, with all the difficulties, the greatest ever transfer in the history of Portugal, from the state to health, was made in 2012. Unfortunately, not for current expenses, but for the current year and to pay late debts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u136	It was the largest ever transfer from the state. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On the issue referred to by Mrs Maria Antónia Almeida Santos, on the commitments made and on the urgency problem being structural or not, it is a measure that is in fact structural, which is to return autonomy to the hospitals. Therefore, this is no longer an "emergency contract", the expression goes, it is, yes, the hospital, if you need this area, to be able to hire freely, as you have been doing since January.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u137	Since the emergency crisis!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u138	No, ma'am! Since the State budget, only with the State budget can you do so. It was the woman who approved the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u139	By the way, I didn't approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u140	As regards the questions put by Mrs. Member of the Left Block, I do not think, Mrs. Member, that the question of liability, whenever there is a controversial issue, should be resolved by resignation — either the resignation of the President of the IPST (English Institute for Blood and Transplantation), of the Secretary of State, of the President of the hospital or of the ARS. That is, we have 300 public health managers, with executive directors and directors of hospitals and administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u141	The Secretary of State is a political body!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u142	That's it! It is about these people that we have to do justice, because they manage in the most difficult times of all time, with restrictive budgets as they have never had and under adverse conditions. Therefore, it is not worth always asking for the resignation of some of these people, yes, it is important to give some stability to the institutions. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Galriça Neto and Mr Carla Cruz, Mr. President for Mr. Secretary of State Deputy asked for permission to answer on the part of mental health and on the part of continuing care beds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u143	How many USFs have you opened this year? Oh, my God! [[Meanwhile, Vice President Guilherme Silva took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u144	Mr. Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Health has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u145	Mr President, in a brief note, I begin by recognizing that in some way I cannot fail to congratulate myself because, at the end of four years of government, the only thing the opposition is able to point out to me is a truncated and uncontextualized comment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u146	Don't be deluded!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u147	...or a poor quality report. [[PCP protests.]] But since I have 30 years of medical practice and I probably know emergency services much better than most of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a position to tell you that at no time will I cease to defend, because that is my mission, what needs to be defended, which is the National Health Service. It's just, for VV. Ex., I understand, the only thing that is worthy of appreciation is the unmeasured and irresponsible criticism of a service that is the greatest guarantor of social cohesion in Portugal. [[Protests from PS Deputy Luísa Salgueiro.]] Therefore, we have implemented a very important set of measures, which goes through, in particular, in the area of urgency, as has already been said, we have done a reform never before and we have, perhaps, created conditions for, at the end of the year, we have only 19 municipalities in the country without PEM (Electronic Medical Prescription ) and a number never previously reached services in the National Health Service services, including in primary care services. In addition, we will continue opening the number of beds in continuous care. in the area of mental health, I must tell you. Members who had an original order from the previous government, the Socialist Party, which has not yet been met for various reasons and we have created the conditions for doing better now. Today, the Council of Ministers has adopted an amendment to the decree governing continued care to allow continued mental health care to become an integral part of this network. And what we are going to do in this regard will increase, contrary to what the honourable Member has said, perhaps for worse information, the number of places in socio-occupational units and home units. from a originally planned number of 134 places, in the original office, we will move to 159 places, in the same way that the number of self-sustainment residences will have a higher number of places, thus making it more satisfactory. I must also tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and now to remember other things than you. Members tend not to want to praise—which we, this government, have achieved the exemption of moderate rates up to the age of 18, and in the former government was only until the age of 12. in the same way that this government has achieved the greatest coverage of the elderly for influenza vaccine,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u148	And that increased the rates by 200 %! It was you too!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u149	... the same way we are, as has already been widely announced, that we will ensure coverage for Streptococcus pneumoniae. To conclude, it is important that, once again, it should be underlined in this House that, in the last four years, we have achieved: the reduction of infant mortality; the reduction of mortality below five years old; the reduction of mortality below 65 years old; the reduction of mortality due to heart disease, vascular and even cervical cancer; and another broad set of health benefits, which are now known, but which, during the governance of the Socialist Party, was a mystery that no one could disguise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u150	You want to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u151	I shall finish, Mr President, with an important note. We, above all, as has been said, are able to rule. We don't make any announcements, Mrs. Deputy. What we do is replace criticism with action. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u152	We will move on to the closing stage of the debate. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the debate in which the Government has sought to clarify all the doubts raised, I would like to emphasise a few points which I consider relevant. The Left Block announced in advance to this session that it wanted to know how taxpayers' money is being spent in the health sector. A legitimate concern in democracy, a concern that has not always been expressed in this area. But let us turn to the facts, which the Portuguese must know and know. Our National Health Service is a product of the democratic system, born five years after 1974. Its conception was that of creating a public service, essentially paid by taxes. The choice of this government was to maintain this founding line. And no one can doubt that. The Government's option was to pay a substantial part of the accumulated debts of EUR 3000 million. And no one can doubt that. The choice of this government was to ensure more health care for all Portuguese people. And no one can doubt that. The SNS currently guarantees more than 50 million consultations per year, more than 6 million emergencies, more than 500 000 surgeries, which is only possible by the action of a vast and qualified group of professionals. This means—and so much urgency—that, in the first four months, were carried out in public hospitals 1, 5 million emergencies. This is what the more than 120 000 professionals have provided to the Portuguese. That is how it is, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we spend the Portuguese money. They may also have the Left Block and the opposition claim that this is only the opinion of the Government. But there is a lack of information there, and I need to see the whole reality. The recognition of the National Health Service is public, with measurements of levels of satisfaction by independent entities, such as the Health Regulatory Entity, the Directorate-General of Health, among others, showing that the overall degree of satisfaction in the worst moments is more than 80%. This recognition is also public at international level, with measurements of levels of satisfaction that surround values above the OECD average. Although public expenditure is presented, discussed and approved by Parliament, I am very pleased to continue to exemplify for 2014 where taxes charged to Portuguese have been applied. The SNS spent more than EUR 8400 million. on the day this debate takes place, we are investing in the health of the Portuguese 23 million euros; 42 %, for primary care and continuing care, the remaining 58% were directed towards the payment of hospital care. We have never taken steps before in the prevention of disease and in the promotion of health, in food policy, in the prevention of drug use, in the reduction of access to alcohol by young people and in the fight against smoking. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not only in the opinion polls or in the financial balance that we have had good results, but also in the evaluation of the outcoms our balance sheet is clearly positive. The data that the Portuguese state of health has continually improved in recent years are clear: infant mortality is at 2, 8 per 1000 births in national territory, the second best value of ever; life expectancy has increased; deaths from HIV/AIDS, these very in particular, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and some malignant tumors, such as the cerebrovascular neck, have decreased; we have had the lowest ever number of new cases of tuberculosis; we will be able to fulfil the goal of having a value of less than 20% of early mortality by 2020. In 2015, we added new investments, ensuring the future sustainability of the SNS. unlike others, we made accounts before proposing and proposed after knowing that we will have money to execute it. In what areas did we do it? in the inclusion of the antipneumococcal vaccine included in the National Vaccination Plan, on a proposal from the Directorate-General for Health; in the creation of the palliative care network, non-existent; in the expansion of the continuing care network; in the establishment of a network of continued mental health care; in the treatment of hepatitis C, without parallel in Europe; in the introduction of more therapeutic innovation; in the acquisition of new equipment for oncology institutes; in the hiring of more professionals for the National Health Service; and in the launch of new infrastructures and remodeling in various areas and health units. We have taken these options with the firm conviction that, in order to continue to carry out more public spending in the area of health — which we all recognize as necessary — it is necessary to increase individual and collective accountability that it results in an extended commitment in Portuguese society and with the parties on the SNS they wish — in fact, remembering that a failed State can never be a social state. The SNS is essential and, as such, has to be lastingly sustainable. This will only be possible with honesty in the analyses, critical assessments, supported by facts, and in the use of the best evidence available for rationality and consensus in the choices. The health of Portuguese is valuable. It is important, now and in the future, to achieve the greatest possible commitment around the model of the Portuguese health system, which is only possible through the removal of topical disputes in non-structural matters. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government is, and will always be, open to discuss options to strengthen the SNS. We're all counting on it. Just as the Portuguese have to rely on this government to give them more and better health. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u154	For an intervention on behalf of the requesting party of this emergency debate, the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u155	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has marked this urgent debate because it knows how people feel about health in our country, but when we wanted to put the debate where people feel, the government decided to focus the debate on the indicators. We know how the government likes indicators, treats 'em in the palms', speaks to them gently to see if they say nice things and if of reality they only say good things. This government likes indicators so much, and it's with the indicators that this government denies people! If it were the indicators that were, in a television report, exposed in those corridors without being treated and desperate for their health care, perhaps Mr. Secretary of State would have another word to say! But they're not indicators, they're people, and so you can abuse them. If they were indicators that Mr. Secretary of State would be treated that way, the Minister would soon insurgency himself by saying that it was unacceptable and intolerant to insult the indicators in such a way! As they were people, a Secretary of State could impolitely insult an entire country who knows well how the reality denies the government's indicators! Only because the government knows only the indicators is that we were able to see again what happened today: Mr. Secretary of State has come to say that it strengthens the National Health Service and, at the same time, yesterday in the Health Committee, said the head of the National Mental Health Plan that what Mr. Secretary of State says is completely false. It is only going to reinforce the mercys, because what was already foreseen in the previous plan, such integrated continuous care, is half, home support teams disappear and it is only a protocol for mercy. After all, more indicators for less public health! And because we know the love that the Minister has for the indicators, I will mention to him one that may perhaps make some alarms sound, if the Minister looks at the indicators not from an ideological point of view, because, if not, we know, he may even have the "made of merit" of the privates in our country. This is an interesting indicator which says that in Germany the expenditure on health is 80% public, while in Portugal it has not stopped coming down during the term of office of this government and is already less than 65 %. If there was reason for the Minister to be indignant, it was with this indicator. However, since their interests are not the public, in fact, they do not care very much about this matter. He tells us that debt is controlled, when we know, and we have reason to be suspicious, that debt is being hidden, as we have seen with other governments. This is, after all, a very repeated story. by our accounts, debt may be more than EUR 2000 million, but it will be hidden under a carpet any one to add after the departure of this government and again to fall upon any subsequent government, which, in the face of debt, will always say that austerity is inevitable. Mr. Minister will say that we have better health care. Well, in this case, there is no reason to be suspicious, but just not to believe because we know well that this government does not invest in health, so there is a lack of health care for Portuguese people. According to a well-known news, to see how this government's investment in health is, throughout the year it has only opened a single family health unit, not because they lack primary care, not because they are not necessary for people, but because the government does not invest in health. If you didn't do it over these four years, why could we expect you to do it now? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister, do you want to talk about the drug indicators? So let's talk about what reality says about these indicators. We do not only speak of those numbers that hide people's dramas, because reality shows that in Portugal medicines have been rationalized as a result of the orders of this government and the hospital administrations that this government has appointed. This is the reality that the indicators do not hide! He also tells us that, according to the indicator, consultations have increased and, therefore, health care will certainly be more democratic, closer to people. It has been forgotten to say that this indicator has hidden that many of these consultations are not present, but of the kind "take there from here" by telephone, or "look at it, is it better? I hope it's okay, 'cause that's why it's okay! """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" There's one last topic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to mention this urgent debate and show how this government has failed those who needed it most to be present. We are told by those responsible for treating cancer in our country, those who accompany the families who feel the pain of this scourge, that the treatment is not yet in the ‘red’, but that we risk getting there, admitted on Wednesday, the coordinator of the National Programme for Oncological Diseases. This is the reality of the policy of this government, which can only be corrected - and that is why we believe that there is an urgent need, indeed, and from there we have had this debate - when the real virus in the National Health Service is combated, with this or with another government. This virus is called austerity and only democracy (the choice of peoples) can ensure that austerity is no longer the disease of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u156	After the urgent debate required by the Left Block Parliamentary Group on the health situation in Portugal, I would like to congratulate the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.o 888 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November establishing the administrative reorganization of Lisbon ( PSD and PS ) and 890 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — It deepens the rights of workers in the municipality of Lisbon who have been transferred to the parish under Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November by making their first amendment ( BE ). To present Bill No. 888 / XII ( 4. ( a ), Mr António Proa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we present a bill that amends the law of the administrative reorganization of Lisbon. In fact, it is a matter of improving, if they wish, the law. In 2012, following a process involving the bodies of the parish, the city, the city and many citizens, Parliament approved a profound administrative reform in Lisbon, with a reduction from 53 to 24 of the parish, providing them with more own competences and also more resources. A reform that has benefited, as it should be in structural matters, from an extended political commitment. It was a revolution of local power in the capital. As expected, in particular, the implementation of the Lisbon administrative reorganization took place following the municipal elections with the definition, in particular, of resources, equipment and means to be transferred from the city to the parish. However, the implementation of the reform was targeted at monitoring that has allowed improvement, but also the verification of some originally planned human, material and financial imbalances. In fact, a reorganization such as the one we are dealing with, with pioneering and inherent singularities, despite the effort of forecasting and the studies on which it was based, would inevitably have some imperfections that have always been expected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These are the asymmetries concerning the financial resources found after the transfer of the various resources in particular and which have been the subject of weighting between the chamber and the fregetical boards that we propose to be corrected now. thus, we will ensure reasonableness, but also stability and predictability of resources for the parish of Lisbon, ensuring proper compliance with the responsibilities of the parish. It should be clarified that the principle of neutrality in the State budget is ensured because the value now envisaged and which means a strengthening for the parish in the order of €900 000 per year results from a decrease in the transfer of the State budget to the city of Lisbon. But it matters, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, take the opportunity to make a balance sheet of this process. More than for the PSD, for the Lisboa, this is a successful reform. It is undeniable that the lisboetas benefit from a better service now provided by the parish. The autoarchs of the parish were able to assume new responsibilities. The PSD is therefore committed to continuing the decentralization of competences, in this case the municipality for the parish but, in general, also from the central administration to intermunicipal communities and municipal chambers. As for the Lisbon administrative reform, we know that others do not believe in the capacity of the French authorities, defend centralism and are deeply conservative. Others still distrust reform. It is the case of the Left Block which, with its proposal, calls into question the continuity and stability of the reform when it seeks to provide for the transfer of human resources to the parish. The PSD believes in this reform and therefore is committed to improving it but also to deepening it. We believe in the principle of subsidiarity, we believe in the capacity of the French authorities and, therefore, we are now engaged in this deepening. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u158	To present Bill No. 890 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is necessary to adjust the budget bases of the parish in the context of what has been the administrative reorganization of the municipality of Lisbon. Thus, the contribution of the Left Block in this debate is not contrary to this design or this need, it is a matter that we believe in common sense, since it has to do with this law here passed in the Assembly of the Republic : the workers who belong to the framework of the municipality and who have been compulsory and compulsively displaced to the board boards may prefer to return to the tables of the City Council when competitions are opened in the same area and in the same functions that they had. I believe that it is a matter of common sense, of elementary justice, that there is this ability to return to the municipal council when a competition is opened for the same area, for the same functions. Therefore, this is to establish common sense and to establish justice. Therefore, try to understand that if you want to limit the transfer of workers, Mr.António Proa, because, in fact, if the Chamber opens competitions for certain areas from which, however, it has withdrawn workers to the parish, this means that the Chamber continues to need workers for these functions and it is of meridian justice that this can happen. Therefore, we expect your sign of support in this regard, because it is only when the competition is open in the Chamber and no one is asking, at this moment, to return the workers to the city's framework, from the frames of the parish. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u160	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As Mr António Prôa said very well in connection with the administrative reorganization of the city of Lisbon, we had a new map which reduced from 53 to 24 the parish, a new framework of competences and new criteria for the distribution of financial and human resources between the City Council of Lisbon and the parish. This process was the result of political dialogue and commitment within the municipal bodies, in the City Hall of Lisbon and in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, the result of the political dialogue and commitment resulting from the auscultation of the parish, the auscultation of the population, the involvement of the universities, the result of dialogue and political commitment resulting from what was the joint work between the parties represented in the municipal bodies, in particular between the PS and the PSD, but also multiple public debates involving all the political forces represented in the city of Lisbon and also tens and dozens of representatives of the population. For the Socialist Party, this is, of course, a good example of the management of Antonio Costa and PS in the city of Lisbon, but it is also a good example of working together with all the autarchs. That is why we should greet, and especially the PSD, for the involvement it has had in this process, but also the autarchs of all parties, because they, and also the independent elected in the various municipal bodies, have contributed to implementing this reform. It is about this implementation that we have this bill here. Especially after the definition of what is structural and remained in the city and what has passed to the parish, it is important to adjust the amounts attributed to each parish due to the necessary adequacy to the implementation of the reform, but also, above all, due to a permanent dialogue between the municipality, the parish, workers and the different municipal bodies. This adequacy follows, as has already been said, a monitoring and follow-up process that we consider exemplary, with a task force to work, the permanent listening of the authorates, CML and workers services, Mr. Luís Fazenda, with the production of reports by the mission team, with the quarterly production of analysis of these reports and recommendations by the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, with the commitment and dialogue between all parties, recommendations that have been implemented. All of this sets a good example that it is important to adjust, maintaining this dialogue and commitment, and that is what we are doing here. In fact, that is also why, and I leave a final note, that we cannot follow the BE project. It is that it violates the principles of reform and, above all, breaks with the ongoing and necessary dialogue between the City Hall of Lisbon, the parishioners and the workers and with the permanent auscultation that has existed. from there the social peace that has existed in the implementation of this reform, which is important to maintain, that it is important not to break. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u162	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing the first amendment to the Lisbon administrative reform, which is nothing more than an adjustment of values in the budgets of the board itself. in this debate and as has already been said here, it is also important to make a balance sheet. This reform of Lisbon is an important reform, as was the reform of local power done by this government. in the reform of Lisbon, we started from 53 to 24 parish. The CDS understood at the time that it should have gone further, that there should have been a further decrease in the number of frequencies, giving them more competences, resources and means. With this, the parish had greater power to serve the Lisboa. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] Sir, listen first! I always hear all the debates calmly. More administrative decentralisation is synonymous with more management, more efficiency in municipal management; more administrative decentralisation is synonymous with more dignity of the board itself. It is unfortunate that the PS says that the reform of Lisbon was very good, but then of the national reform, say it was very bad. This is not good for the Socialist Party. Today, the parish can give an answer to the citizens who in the past could not. How many times and how many times did you go to your parish board with a certain problem and the problem was never with the parish board? Either he was from the municipal chamber or he was with the government, with the central administration. Today, the parish has more competences in the management of social equipment, in the management of sports equipment, in the management of cultural equipment, in the green spaces, in the public space and in so many other matters. This was a necessary reform. As for the bill submitted by BE, I must have a good intention but it is redundant. I will give you the benefit of the doubt that BE does not have a representative in the City Hall of Lisbon — it did not have that mandate — but it has - in the Municipal Assembly and it was good for you to see a proposal that was adopted — and I do not subscribe to the part referred to by Mr Figueiredo regarding this proposal, since the House has already deliberated precisely what BE proposes here. Proposal No 916 / 2013 basically says — this was the debate of the House at the time — that workers of the Chamber of Lisbon who have passed to the councils of Freguesia, in the event of opening competitions, have priority to return to the Chamber. Therefore, I think this draft law of BE will make no sense, until I believe BE is also a defender of what is the autonomy of local power. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u164	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This « Treaty of Tordesillas » between the PSD and the PS, in Lisbon, which gives the name of administrative reorganization and which generates this friendship between the PS and the PSD, was the target of criticism and warnings by the CFP. In fact, criticisms and warnings that we now judge fully proven by reality. If at the time they could say that all the criticisms of the CFP would be alarmist, today the reality proves that not only was it alarmist as it announced what was going to happen, the degradation of public service, the face of workers' rights, the disarticulation of services, the breakdown of the so propagated economies of scale, so lauded when it was necessary to end services, finally a set of aspects for which the CFP was alerting and which have been verified in reality. It is interesting that those who defend this administrative reorganization of the city of Lisbon say that those who criticize it—in those inserting the CFP, therefore—are the centralists. Those who have liquidated twenty and such fregueses in Lisbon, reducing their number from 53 to 24, are decentralizers!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u166	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u167	No one complains!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u168	They ended the parish, removed the power and elected of the populations, focused power on more distant structures, less operative, less capable, and these are the decentralizers! Open... of the PCP, a serious decentralization, Mr. Members, it would be to give the existing parish more means to ensure those who live there their rights,... [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u169	... on an equal footing with all, regardless of the parish and who live. Interestingly, they did not hesitate to create a parish in a certain area of the city, while liquidating all the others. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the majority's proposal here is concerned, it is not up to us to criticize the values resulting from an observation of the ground, but it is up to us to persist in the criticism that is the main reason why the parish of Lisbon continues to have a very different regime and treatment than that which is applied to the other parish of the country. Therefore, it is as if on the one hand we had the ferries of the second and the other the ferries of the first, which, regardless of the values and the fairness, or not, of the values now proposed, remains, in fact, aggravating itself, with the application of the regime resulting from the administrative reorganization. The PCP first criticized this discrepancy between the country's parish councils and those within the perimeter of the city of Lisbon. As such, we will not now support a bill that consolidates that same vision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u170	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u171	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that in spite of differences in terms of the BE proposal on the part of the CFP, we will not fail to support, in general, and would like to contribute to the resolution of some differences in the speciality. The CFP does not agree with some of the mechanisms created but, rather, with the fundamental principle that workers should never have lost the link to the city and should return to the City Hall of Lisbon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u172	For a second speech, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot invoke the autonomy of the local power for one thing and not invoke it for another. If it is true that it was by law of the Assembly of the Republic that the budgetary basis of the frejies was defined in this administrative reorganization of the municipality of Lisbon, it was also there that the principle of the transfer of workers to the councils of frejesia was adopted, and it is also at this time and at this headquarters that any kind of change has to be made. It is not a mere deliberation of the City Hall that is adopted today and not tomorrow. No, that should be clear in the legislation, in the same law, in the same law. Therefore, they make no sense, and I insist on this point, the accusations that this violates the principle and the mechanisms of reform, the ongoing dialogue. All of this has no basis. It is only logical—and, by the way, already approved by the municipality—and it would cost you nothing that would remain in the law that all those workers who have been compulsively transferred to the parish, if they opened a contest in the Municipal Chamber for the same functions, have the right to return. It seems to be of the most basic justice and should look at this with the common sense that this proposal has. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u174	Mr Rui Paulo Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u175	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I am not going to contaminate this specific debate of Lisbon with national matters and on this I will say only and only one sentence, which is for you and is also addressed to Mr Miguel Tiago : from our point of view, what has happened in Lisbon is a good example for what should happen in the country in terms of dialogue, commitment, human resources and competence, but I do not want to deepen this subject further.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u176	And what does Mr António Proa have to say about that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u177	On the project of the Left Block, we said practically the same, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, there was no difference; what I meant was that there exists and continues to exist, although what Mr. Luís Fazenda may say, social peace, social dialogue and all solutions, including those proposed here, are already planned and in implementation. What we have said, only from a political point of view, is that everything must have been done, as it has been, in dialogue and in articulation, within the organs of the municipality, with the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u178	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u179	Mr. Miguel Tiago, a final note on Lisbon : his speech does not agree with reality and, as the Lisboa know the reality, I will no longer stay on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u180	Mr. Deputies, I didn't have any more time either. Mr António Proa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to leave some notes, first of all with regard to reality. The reality, as much as the PCP wants, is not the one described here, the reality is that this reform has been a success. In addition, they begin by asking Mr. President of the Carnide Frequencies Board, elected by the CFP, whether he is satisfied and committed to reform. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u182	But, Mr President, what I wanted to say here is that the PSD is committed to the consolidation of this reform and wanted to challenge the other parties, especially those who so far wanted to stand aside from this process, to contribute constructively to a further step in the deepening of this reform in Lisbon, as has been said, in compromise. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the compromise is concerned, I cannot fail to say the following: in Lisbon, the process was actually built with an extended political basis and this was important, in a commitment in which the PSD, being opposed to Lisbon, rather than standing outside, decided, because of the structural importance of the matter, to commit itself to the construction of the reform. Finally, Mr President, in this regard allow me to recover what I said in 2012, during the discussion of the law. Then he said: "If in Lisbon the PSD had the same attitude as the PS seems to have at the national level, he would have said that this reform is promoted by Dr. António Costa and then the PSD will not cooperate. But no, the PSD understands reforms because they are important for the lives of Portuguese people. »... [[I wish you well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u183	...“So the PS had the same responsibility at the national level”.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u184	Very good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u185	This said - in 2012...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u186	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u187	... and, Mr. President, today with renewed relevance, can we say: how can Dr. António Costa live with this inconsistency?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u188	I wanted to see if it helped to finish, but I didn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u189	In Lisbon, he found the opposition's commitment, soon after, in the country, the same Dr. António Costa was unable to make commitments. This attitude reveals inconsistency and inconsistency does not convey confidence. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u190	Mrs. Members, let us then move on to point 3 of our agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 650 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Revocation of moderate rates and definition of criteria for the allocation of transport of non-emergency patients ( PCP ), 891 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Sets the exemption from non-emergency charges for patients ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November) ( BE), 892/ XII ( 4 ). a ) — eliminates the payment of moderate rates in access to health care of the National Health Service ( sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November) ( BE) and 893 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amends the model of regular and coercive collection of moderate rates by amending Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ( PS ). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings back the issue of moderate rates and exemption from charges with non-emergency transport because we are faced every day with thousands of Portuguese people who are unable to access health care, either treatment or additional examinations and even consultations and surgeries themselves, because they do not have economic conditions to bear charges, either with moderate rates or with non-emergency transport. We also bring this initiative because, in fact, what we want is that Portuguese, regardless of their economic condition, have access to health, have access to the constitutionally enshrined right. But, Mr. President, Mr. Members, what we effectively propose with this legislative initiative is the repeal of moderate rates and the exemption of users with non-emergency transport charges, and we say that this exemption with non-emergency transport should happen in all situations and whenever the patient presents a defective economic condition or if the requirement of non-emergency transport is clinically justified, and this requirement of non-emergency transport is effectively guaranteed. We also say that it is up to the National Health Service to ensure the full range of non-emergency transport charges, and we also propose that SNS ensure that users transport charges which inevitably require extended care, regardless of the number of sessions and trips that have to take place over a month. We are well aware that the PSD and the CDS-PP will say that this government has exempted thousands of Portuguese from moderate rates and we also know - indeed, the Government has already said so in the previous debate - which they will mention that the Government has exempted young people until the age of 18, but, Mrs. Members, we tell the PSD, the CDS-PP and the government that this measure is insufficient. In fact, this is a measure that recognizes that moderate rates are effectively an obstacle to access to health care. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speak to the doctors and hear what they have to say, hear the stories they tell many patients who ask them not to make another consultation in the same month, not to mark the tests for the next month, because they do not have the ability to pay for these transports. But we say more: they also talk to social workers, to the technicians of the National Health Service and even to the IPSS, because they also have dramatic stories to tell you and what we really propose is that all Portuguese have access to health care, regardless of their economic condition. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u192	To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mrs. Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today it seems to be a day dedicated to health issues and we discuss again the issue of the payment of SNS moderate rates. Moderate rates are a real payout in the National Health Service. I think there is no doubt about this anymore. I know that the right, the parties of the majority continue to consider that no and defend the need for this obstacle to access to health care and this contradiction with the universality of this right. We thought and defended it for a long time, so we presented this bill again, that moderate rates should be eliminated in the National Health Service. However, at this stage of the debate, two other aspects must also be addressed and one is linked to the exemptions from the moderate rates currently in existence. A short time ago, we heard the Minister of Health talk here about the number of Portuguese and Portuguese who are exempt from the payment of the moderate rate. It is necessary to make a reading of these numbers, which only show the increase in the impoverishment of families. It is true, because many families with many difficulties remain outside the exemption from moderate rates, until there is a fundamental problem that the Left Block has already raised for several times that it is related to the formula for calculating the exemption, and I would even like to hear the opinion of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Now, the PSD again announced, at the end of the term of office, the exemption of all young people up to the age of 18.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u194	Do you think that's wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u195	We certainly welcome this measure, and indeed we have been defending it for a long time, as you well know. It's late and it's electoralist, let's just...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u196	Is he an electoralist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u197	Mrs. Members, the problem of the formula for calculating exemptions is not solved, because it penalises families with larger family aggregates. It does not apply only to children, who will be exempt until 18 years of age, for example, to families who are elderly in their care. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, were very shy in this proposal on moderate rates, and here I would like to reaffirm that the Left Block maintains and defends its position as principle of abolition of moderate rates. The other bill — very quickly, Mr President — has to do with the issue of charges for the non-emergency of transport of patients. We know that this was another measure imposed by this government which has reduced people's access to health services. It happens that patients who are not considered urgent but who have to make travel due to their clinical situation, either for consultation or for treatment that depends on their clinical situation, should not pay for this. That is a great injustice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u198	To present the Socialist Party bill, Mr. Nuno André Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We had today, here, the head of this government's health pasta that once again made clear its social insensitivity to the problems of health in the country, the responsible for a brutal cut in 2011, in the first Budget for 2012, which had direct effects on the health care of Portuguese and that removed thousands of Portuguese from the National Health Service. As for the debts, Mr. Members will soon have the opportunity to discuss with the Socialist Party and to report on debt in health. We'll see how the debt on health remained with your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fact is that the disinvestment, cuts, imbalance and poor health management has produced catastrophic results in this sector, and we will see what your results are. They arrive in Parliament and the only thing they can do is list a set of new health centres, new hospitals and new emergencies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, none of yours, they are all from the Socialist Party government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All these investments are of the Socialist Party and the Portuguese people have the clear notion of this. What is yours is two to three years of waiting at Guarda Hospital for cardiology, what is yours is to withdraw specialties in various hospitals in the country, what is yours is to end the extensions of health centers inside, what is yours is panic in hospital emergencies. That's yours, that's your mark. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As early as 2012 the OECD warned that cuts would influence efficiency. In 2012 several were the interventions, and of different protagonists, of political parties, trade unions, cantonaries, who said: « Attention, the country will enter a collapse in the area of health». We have even had the President of the National Association of Diseased and Signistrated Transport to say in the Health Committee that "we now have people at home who are dying, for lack of resources to move to hospitals". In the face of all these indications, H.E. Minister of Health Paulo Macedo has always demonstrated total indifference and total disrespect for the Constitution and for the Portuguese. That's what he's always shown. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Things have been happening and the government has always been shaking and waving side by side. What happened in Portugal between 2007 and 2012 was that health expenditure dropped much as a percentage of GDP, dropped much more than the European Union average. On the other hand, it was found that direct payments made by families at the time of use of care increased by 4 % more than in the European Union. The fact is that the data released in 2013 by the INE show that 34 % of total health care expenditure was paid by families. Today, for all these reasons, we present here a bill that aims to change the model of coercive charging of moderate rates, an initiative that, in the first hand, intends to end injustice that has fallen, in a brutal and totally unjustified way, on people. We have always shown ourselves against the increases in moderate rates, increases that have transformed these rates into financiers and not moderators. It is true that, if it is true that the payment of moderate fees is a duty of citizenship, a civic requirement, which presupposes the necessity to equalize measures that fill any non-compliances, the model cannot pass, as in other sectors, by excessive and disproportionate burden of citizens, in a view of public services such as revenue-gathering machines, blind and insensitive to the difficulties of the lives of Portuguese. The definition of fines implies not only a reduction in the guarantee of citizens to the exercise of this condition but also a clear violation of the constitutional design of the right to health protection. This does not defend the National Health Service, does not respect the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, does not respect the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u200	For an intervention, Mr. João Pina Silver has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are back to the issue of health, here a little late, by the Socialist Party, talking about moderate rates and the transport of patients. It is a heated but always important debate, because, in this Parliament, there are already more than half a dozen times that these issues are brought to a healthy democratic debate. It is also a heated debate, but always important, because the CFP, the EB, and also now the PS, as we have seen, enter this legislative production in a late time, because its resolution has already been implemented by this Government, obeying the measurable criteria of social justice and operationalized in a time filled with tremendous and undeniable financial difficulties, and having also been evaluated its application. [[PS protests.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u202	In other words, speaking about health and not only ideology, the PSD/CDS government has been able to interpret the term equality and access opportunity in modern times. Acting as the PCP, BE and now the PS intend, with these bills, to disregard, is to force a social reality in which we come, it is to want to perpetuate a time of slow agony and demobilization of professionals, which the previous government has reached in the area of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u203	It's just bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u204	For the Left Block, shyness on the part of the majority is the realism of pure politics... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u205	... and the insensitivity mentioned here by the PS Member is to spread the reality that we lived in the time when this party was power. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our freedom must be of the size of the world, yes, but the refusal to accompany with the responsibility and recognition of reality makes us lose the world and enslave us. That is why the PS led Portugal, clearly to the maze of debt and national depression. Today, Mr Figueiredo does not talk about the pharmacies, which he was talking about, because he actually defends the big capital. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u206	Today he talks about the transportation of patients, when it was the PS that brought here the worst project, which in 2010 united all the opposition against the government proposal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u207	Today, Mr Figueiredo speaks of the works stopped, but he forgets the financial problems that led to multiple companies in this country, of course, with its relocation. Today, Mr André Figueiredo talks here about the closure of SAP(permanent care services), but we all remember who, in 2009 / 2011, effectively began with this closure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u208	The reality of today, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it shows us that in the time of the PS we actually had only 4 million free of moderate rates and today we have 6 million, 3 million Portuguese covered by this exemption. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u209	And what is the answer? The answer is also radical and simple: we have adjusted political decisions to the real social and economic conditions of the citizens. To affirm, as the PCP, BE and now the PS, that the moderate rates constitute a source of SNS funding is to want unmistakably a retention of mathematics, because only EUR 171 000 corresponds to the value of the moderate rates in EUR 10 billion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u210	This is 1, 7! Let's be fair, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Math doesn't fail in this case! Finally, what does the opposition to the modeling of policies adopted by this government in relation to the transport of patients say? What do you say, and you say, the exemption from moderate fees for 430 000 young people between the ages of 12 and 18? What has expressed the opposition to the fight against fraud and the greater delivery of the clinical activity of all health professionals?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u211	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u212	I answer: it only adds freeness in everything and to everyone, thus contrary to the constitutional articulation for health policy, which I strongly recommend to be revisited by the opposition parties by the excellence and wisdom of the Members of the Constituent Assembly. To conclude, Mr President, with so much promise of freeness and so much delay in the response to this government's health policies, it is the opposition which will, even and urgently, stop the opposition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u213	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the moderate rates and the non-emergency of patients, which are two important issues when we talk about Portuguese access to health care. As we know, the moderate rates were an invention by the Government of Cavaco Silva, the PSD, as a way of circumventing the constitutional principle that enshrines free and universal nature in access to health to the SNS. After the formula was discovered, it was seen: governments used and abused this mechanism, to the point of transforming the patients into real clients of the National Health Service. The former PS government significantly increased the value of moderate rates and also forced pensioners and unemployed with incomes below the national minimum wage to pay the moderate rates of SNS. But after this exaggeration, the PSD/CDS government came and imposed new and gross increases in moderate rates. Despite the appeal of the World Health Organization, which, in fact, draws attention to the need to remove financial obstacles in access to health care, at exactly the time when the Portuguese generality saw a significant reduction in their available income and in addition to having to pay more taxes, the PSD government again increased the values of moderate rates. And the most serious thing is that the PSD/CDS government has taken these measures when it knows perfectly that, despite the very harsh burdens they represent for the budgets of many families, they do not assume any relevance to the financing of the National Health Service. Moreover, with this government, these moderate rates have completely lost their moderate rate in order to become a real rate of use, i.e. the user, who already finances the SNS tax, when he needs to resort to the health services that the State should provide, after all, have to pay that service again. In the light of the Greens' perspective, it is absolutely essential to approach the constitutional principles that have raised the right to health protection as a fundamental right, which, in our view, begins with the repeal of the diploma establishing the moderate rates. The Greens therefore follow the proposals for legislative initiatives which are under discussion, not all of them, but at least those which want to move, without popes in the language, to repeal the moderate rates. The same applies to the transport of patients, which, as you know, is preventing many Portuguese from accessing their treatments, the treatments they need, especially those with the most economic difficulties and with less financial resources. We therefore follow both the CFP and the BE in the proposals that bring us to discussion today and which also aim to eliminate the payment of charges with the non-emergency of patients. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u215	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 113 / 2011, here under discussion, came to regulate the special conditions for access to SNS benefits based on criteria for rationality and positive differentiation of the most deprived and disadvantaged. in the context of the current constitutional and legal framework, the objective of moderate rates is first to promote an efficient use of available resources. This is the understanding in accordance with Article 64. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, already validated by several judgments of the Constitutional Court, more than a decade ago, expressly provides that article 64. the Constitution does not allow the legislator to establish moderate rates. in their proposals regarding the non-urgent transport of patients, PCP and BE intend to change this regime and understanding, making it free of charge. But, as you well know, this government has already approved amendments and the SNS already ensures transport in cases of economic insufficiency, as well as those in need of prolonged and continued treatment in certain diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u217	What was missing was that they died!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u218	But the BE and the CFP forget that the resources of the State are finite; they do not care at all about the sustainability of the system and they forget mainly those who are most in need and for whom the Government has done everything to channel the resources available. This is the understanding of this majority and that is why there are more than 6 million exemptions from moderate rates;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u219	... that is why until 18 years of age no one pays moderate rates; that is why, right at the beginning of the legislature, the number of exemptions for reasons of economic insufficiency was extended and people who were unemployed were immediately released. It is the understanding of the protection of the most disadvantaged, that is, we choose to protect those who really need it. This is the big difference. The same applies to moderate rates. They recognize, PCP and BE, that what they want with their projects, once again (for the last time... ), is to end them. This is a position of principle, but once again they forget that, of course, health has no price but costs. Finally, for this majority, it is guaranteed that the exemption is due to poor economic condition; cautioned that special schemes and measures are necessary, aimed at minors, pregnant women or the elderly;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u220	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u221	... safeguarded that are the most risky clinical situations, moderate rates ensure greater accountability and more balanced use of services, without prejudice to the effective strengthening of the principle of social justice in the health system. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS already seems to say anything that sounds populism — it is in real campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u222	It's pure electoralism!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u223	The PS proposal is almost identical to that of the left on its left, because when the revenue from the moderate rates amounts to just over 1% of the revenue, we are talking about your proposal! (Shady Oaks Retirement Village) It would be better to complete the 180th round and thus excused to write in your proposal that the payment of moderate fees is a duty of citizenship. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Instead of this left standing up for demagogy, it would be much more useful for the country if it took care of the presentation of feasible initiatives and, above all, realistic and responsible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u224	For a very synthetic intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, I would like to say, Mr João Almeida, that, apparently, responsible initiatives are quite on the side of these benches, particularly on the side of the BE bench. It's just that, I don't know if you noticed, you just approved two things proposed by BE... I would now like to address Mr. João Plata to say the following: so much rhetoric, so much rhetoric about the social sensitivity of the PSD and it is my impression or the honourable Member has forgotten to talk about the formula for calculating exemptions? Oh, my God! Perhaps it was I who did not hear, but it was important to know what your opinion on the formula for calculating the exemptions. Now, if the value of moderate rates is so low, so low and so insignificant in the budget of the National Health Service, why is there such an obstinate position in keeping them? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if that's not ideological, what is it? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u226	For a brief speech, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Overcoming reality is what PSD and CDS-PP do when they deny reality, when they are denying that thousands of Portuguese people are prevented from access to health due to moderate rates and non-emergency transport allocation criteria. To disregard reality is what PSD and CDS-PP have done throughout this legislature, creating laws that prevent and view access to health care. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u228	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members on the right, Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP : It is never too late to bring forward proposals that solve the problems of Portuguese; it is never too late to put forward proposals that allow the preservation and consecration of a National Health Service universal, general and free of charge. It's just that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have actually managed to ensure that Portuguese people have access to health. But it's also important to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are not with this policy, are not with the policy of the internal troika that the National Health Service will dedicate itself or that we will be able to save the National Health Service. Only with an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy... [[PSD laughter.]] ... is that the National Health Service will in fact be consecrated and the patients will have access to this right, to the provision of quality health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have closed the debate on this point and we are now going to move to the fourth and last item of our agenda today, which consists of the discussion together of petition No 445 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Dulce de Sousa Gonçalves and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to amend Article 42 (2). the Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 and that integration into the tables fulfils the single national graduation list, of draft resolution No 1445 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — annulment of the external invitation to tender which violates Directive 1999 / 70 / EC of the European Commission and the launch of a new binding tender ( BE) and, in general, of draft law No 894 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Proposals for a scheme for the linkage of teachers in the career ( CFP ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr Luís Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to emphasise the initiative of the three main petitioners and all the other petitioners on the so-called norm-work. It is the course of the teacher binding competition and only those teachers who are under the circumstances of having five years of successive and complete recruitment in the same recruitment group are able to have access to the frameworks in these conditions. This attempts to comply with a European Union Directive. Portugal was summoned to be completed and complied with, and the notice on that Directive, Directive 1999 / 70 / EC, was made by the European Commission, on the basis of a complaint to the Court of Justice of the European Union. But, in fact, this form of resolution that Minister Nuno Crato has found is again discriminatory. Why? Because it leaves out, as the petition well emphasizes, thousands and thousands of people, probably more than 20,000, who have even more time of service than those who may have access to this semi-automatic mechanism, said, to enter the tables. Why? Because they do not have five complete successive years, for very varied reasons, sometimes even because of administrative errors in school groupings, for various circumstances, because they are able to teach in various recruitment groups and not only have given them in a recruitment group, finally, by several vicissitudes linked to the system and which we all know. And so this new iniquity was created, this new discrimination, which is the fact that we have teachers with 20 years of service, for example, to be overcome by teachers who have only five years of service. We have already questioned Minister Nuno Crato, several times, about this problem, which we consider to be a new illegality, which does not comply with the European Union Directive. The Minister's response has been a bureaucratic but false answer, which is the following: in relation to those teachers who are five consecutive years in the same recruitment group, these are considered to be the permanent needs of the system. This will not be the case, because every year there have been much more contracts and it is the whole thing that fills the permanent needs of the system. It does not seem to me that at this time we can solve the problem of the national graduation list, which is what we are defending, but we are proposing to the House to suspend this invitation to tender and to create a new legal qualification scheme for this purpose, which is the useful measure at this time in these circumstances, and at the time of the opening of the next academic year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u231	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the petitioners and the facilitators of this petition, whose claim allows, again, to discuss and propose solutions for the recruitment, placement and linkage of teachers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No. 83 -A / 2014 on the linkage and competition of teachers, came to legalize the illegal recourse to precariousness, perpetuating the job, family and staff instability of teachers, made it difficult to link teachers in the career, as it requires that the five years of service be successive, full-time and annual and in the same recruitment group. This excludes, directly, thousands of teachers, either those who, with five years of service, have not been placed in the same recruitment group, or those who, with five years of service in the same recruitment group, have not followed them, or those who, by meeting these two criteria, have not had full time. In fact, it is important to question what will happen to teachers who, because of the exclusive responsibility of this government, were late placed in schools at the beginning of the school year, thus not having the full time. What this government does well is to increase the precariousness of teachers, to attack their salaries and rights and to distance them from their careers: to cut wages; to increase the hours of work; to continue the instability of hired teachers, to keep them in the uncertainty of future placement or by forcing them to travel the country with the house to the back, years at a time; to implement school contracts, the results of which were seen at the disastrous beginning of the school year; to create evidence, admitted here as being access to career, questioning the initial training of teachers and ignoring their concrete experience in schools. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of a deeply unfair system of recruitment and linkage of teachers, the PCP presents here the following solutions: the binding of all teachers who respond to the permanent needs of schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u234	... defined by opening vacancies according to all the needs expressed by schools for full-time hours and which occur for three consecutive years, irrespective of the recruitment group; the revocation of the PACC (test of assessment of knowledge and skills) and its effects, in the exclusion of 8000 teachers; the repeal of the Scholarship of School; and the guarantee of the placement of teachers, through a single national list, ordered by professional graduation. These PCP solutions to public school problems aim to ensure transparency and justice in the program of teacher placement competitions. These solutions ensure that the chaos that took place at the beginning of this school year will not be repeated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u235	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by welcoming this petition—not being present to your petitioners—for the initiative which brought together more than 4000 signatures, and which, for this reason alone, has proven to represent a concern for teachers in our schools, which must be answered. But in order to answer them, it is necessary to refocus the debate: that your starting point is far from matching the initiatives now put forward by the parties on the left. [[PCP protests.]] To begin with, it must be said that this government has done more than anything else by regularizing the work situation of teachers, despite the situation and the constraints imposed on us.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u237	That's not the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u238	This government has linked some 4000 teachers to the frameworks and introduced legislative amendments that implement a semi-automatic linkage system for teachers with five years of full-time and consecutive contracts in the same recruitment group.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u239	Why do they discriminate against others? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u240	These changes have two motivations: to address the effective and permanent needs of the educational system, on the one hand, and to regulate the situation of teachers so that temporary contracts are not eternal when needs are permanent, thus correcting a situation of injustice and work instability. This rule thus comes to assure the teachers, who now know that they will be linked since they reach the age of five, with full time. Until then, these teachers were in expectation of the number of vacancies that the system defined, year after year. It must also be said, with all objectivity, that it is not possible to discuss the linkage of teachers without taking into account the continuing demographic fall, which, as you know, did not start yesterday, and has now reached worrying levels. in the case of education, this reality means a decrease in the number of students, for many years, as well as a change in the needs of the educational system. That is, speaking of linkages of teachers, it is not reasonable or even sustainable, to require the State to link its teachers who would later incur the risk of falling into zero hours. However, the initiatives under discussion today make this reality a picture.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u241	Go straight to unemployment is better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u242	These initiatives qualify the norm-work as an obstacle to binding, knowing that there are hundreds of teachers recently linked to the frameworks that prove that this accusation does not correspond to the truth. These initiatives forget that in the future we will have fewer students in our schools and, as such, the linkage of teachers should be guided by the needs of the system and not by the ambitions of the unions. These initiatives reverse the priority of the educational system, requiring the hiring of resources without the existence of filters. The criterion that the CFP came to criticise today, that of the five years of successive contracts, aims to safeguard the rationality in the linkage of teachers, in the face of the needs of the educational system, because the identification of a permanent need is fundamental in this process. It is not binding everything and everyone who does justice, as the PCP intends, nor is it nullifying the external contest, which defends the interest of teachers, as the Left Block argues. The legislation that has served as a framework for the current competitions is historic and with this competition it will be possible to discuss whether or not it should be adjusted or even improved. however, it must be taken into account that there will always be criteria and that these criteria should take into account the needs of the system and the interest of teachers. This government has taken the first step; it was now expected that the proposals for improvement would actually be improved rather than demagogy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u243	Mr Agostinho Santa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I welcome the petitioners who, once again, refer us to a debate on the problem of precariousness linked to hiring at the end of teachers. It is well understood the petitioners' appeal, echoing the frustration and revolt of thousands of teachers who have been held for years and years outside the link between the tables. The worst service we could do would be to deal with this subject with prejudices, subterfuges, in denial of the present and past reality or in attitude of self-responsibility. In order to avoid falling into this temptation, it is necessary to start with the following facts: the problem has already been dragged for decades; the State has been urged to comply, also for teachers, with the Community directive that prevents abuse in the end of the contract; this government has started the process of linking hired teachers, leading to the frameworks in 2013 and 2014 of some 2600 teachers; it has created, in the legal diploma of the competitions, the so-called norm-work, now put in question by the petitioners, alleged and allegedly in compliance with that Directive. It will not be worth arguing about the goodness or evil of the intentions that have presided over the current competitive regime, with emphasis on the introduction of the said rail standard, a semi-automatic mechanism, which, in the interception of certain circumstances, at the end of five years, would lead teachers hired to access the tables. The exercise that we are required is that of the verification of the results, trying in particular to understand what practical effects derive from the actual application of that work standard. However, the cumulation of the four requirements set out in Article 42 ( 2 ). the law of tenders — have the following effects: there are teachers who were obliged to apply the rules and do not apply, from the outset, when the interruption of the succession of contracts occurred because of the services themselves, or when, in the exact terms of the law, the lesson was in more than one recruitment group, which, in many cases, leads to the result that it is sworn to precaution, so that teachers can keep themselves indefinitely to the limit of professional life, in precarious circumstances, never benefiting from the norm. There are numerous situations in which teachers with tens of years of service are overcome by others with much less time, not being valued at all professional experience throughout the career. It is a legal mechanism that creates situations of gross and intolerable injustice. No matter how virtuous it was—it was not! — the intention, which results in a perverse and unjust instrument, which must be rejected. If, bound by obligations imposed, the Government's objective was to set aside the Community directive by deluding it, it fulfilled a bad public service, at nothing contributing to tranquility in schools and to the dignity of teaching and education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u245	For an intervention, Mrs Isilda Aguincha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to health the petitioners who bring to this House petition No 445 / XII ( 4. ( a ), requesting an amendment in Article 42 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 and which aims for integration into the tables to meet the single national graduation list. It is questioned whether it is stipulated that successive end-of-term contracts concluded with the Ministry of Education and Science on an annual and full-time basis in the same recruitment group may not exceed the limit of five years or four renewals. In fact, the regulations have been amended by Decree-Law No 83 -A / 2014, guaranteeing this diploma that teachers are bound and do not continue to be subject to successive contracts, without any stability, a reality of many years that with this government will cease to exist. Today, we can say that the combination of the rule invoked with the rule of the graduated list, which remains, will allow nearly 1500 teachers to be linked in the contest that is taking place, responds to the needs of the system and that, at the end of this legislature, as has already been mentioned, we will have about 4200 teachers linked by this government, against everything and against all. Otherwise, let's see: again, the Left Block wants to cancel the external competition that is underway; again, the Left Block aims to prevent the effective linkage of nearly 1500 teachers with its draft resolution; again, the Block points the way out of the impossible, because for the Block to have a stable and balanced system is not important.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u247	What's important to you is to put 20,000 out!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u248	How important it will be for today's PS to penalize teachers who want to compete. The CFP does not want this competition to be met and presents a bill that is apparently sympathetic, but that would be, in the short term, a zero-hour stock exchange, which would make the teachers now linked, or others that are already in the tables move to mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u249	So they move on to unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u250	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want that. We do not want, nor can we, to create false expectations and so little we can require the Portuguese to support the political options of whom they have never ruled and which they do not even expect to govern. We will have, yes, linked teachers, who are necessary to our schools. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for today, we have finished our work... [[Pause.]] Mrs Diana Ferreira also took part in an intervention. As it has very little time, it will have to be very fast. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important to remember that if this government is the one that has bound the most teachers it is this government that has fired the most teachers. The linkage of teachers announced by Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira from the CDS-PP is far, for example, from corresponding to the number of teachers who have retired in the meantime. It is also clear, with the interventions that have been made, what are the commitments of the PSD and the CDS-PP. The CFP brings the solutions; you, who have created the problems, want to perpetuate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u253	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u254	The PCP commitment is to public school, it is to teachers, it is to public school professionals, it is to its students, it is to defend the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-05-07.u255	I would like to renew the request to the parliamentary groups to seek to make registrations in a timely manner in order to avoid these situations. So we finished our work. We shall meet tomorrow for 10 hours with the following agenda: review of Decree No 320 / XII — Second amendment to Law No 62 / 98 of 1 September, which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation for private copy, together with petition No 427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Rui Miguel Silva Seabra and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to prevent the adoption of Bill No 246 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ), which regulates the provisions of Article 82. that of the Code of Copyright and Related Rights, on equitable compensation relating to private copy. Secondly, the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Management of BES and the Group of the Holy Spirit will be examined, the process leading to the implementation of the Resolution measure and its consequences, in particular with regard to the Developments and Options relating to GHG, BES and the New Bank. The general debate on draft law No 807 / XII ( 4 ) will then be taken into consideration. ( a ) — Extends to entities pursuing cultural activities the possibility of allocating a share of income tax for natural persons ( PS ) and draft law No 889 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 38 / 2012 of 28 August, as amended by Law No 33 / 2014 of 16 June, which approves the Anti-Doping Law in Sport, by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ). Finally, at 12 noon, the vote will take place. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 22 minutes.]]
