ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the favor of reading the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, Parliamentary opinion No 8/ XIII ( 1 ) was introduced into the Bureau ( 1 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October 2015 amending Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August 2009 establishing the special regime for the protection of disability and the third amendment of Decree-Law No 265 / 99 of 14 July as amended by Decrees-Law No 309 -A / 2000 of 30 November and 13 / 2013 of 25 January establishing the supplement for dependence ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u3	Let us begin the agenda, the first point of which is the appreciation of draft resolution No 5/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Basic guidelines for Portuguese foreign policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolution, Mr. João Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u4	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS today present in this House a draft resolution reaffirming the commitment to the large international insertion spaces — the European, the Atlantic and the Lusophone — which form the consensus among the main representative forces on Portuguese foreign policy. This draft resolution is characterized by reaffirming the line of fundamental continuity in the definition of values and interests that establish a framework of legitimacy of national foreign policy and which are combined with the constitutional precepts of Portuguese democracy and the permanent interests of the State. For the CDS Parliamentary Group, however, questions relating to the options of foreign policy are essential issues of State. over the 40 years of our democracy, we found a fundamental unity between the values of freedom and pluralist democracy and permanent national interests, representing a clear understanding of national strategic culture. Among the permanent values are: the guarantee of national independence, the primacy of national interest, the protection of the principles of Portuguese democracy, human rights and international law, and the commitment to the defence of European and international stability and security. Regarding the permanent interests of Portugal, they stand out: the affirmation of our presence in the world, the consolidation and inclusion in a solid network of alliances, the defense of the credibility and external reputation of the State, the valorization of Portuguese communities and the active participation in the promotion of international peace and security. As a member of the National Defence Commission, it is not surprising that I devote much of my intervention to the commitments made by the Portuguese State within the framework of the following areas of strategic integration: the Atlantic and the Lusophony, above all and mainly in its strategic dimensions and defence, since the discussion of the draft resolution, presented yesterday by the PSD and the CDS, dealt largely with the commitments undertaken by Portugal in the Community framework. It is important to say that Portugal, in our view, is prestigious externally and reaffirms its capacity to be a member of NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and the CPLP. Portugal has distinguished itself over the past 20 years because of its ability to assume international responsibilities within the framework of the joint missions led by the democratic states that have ensured conflict resolution and restoration of security and stability and have made the post-FRA a prolonged period of peace in relations between the powers, unprecedented in international policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u6	Portugal acknowledges in its 2013 National Defence Strategic Concept that « The international security borders go beyond the national territorial borders of the State » and Portugal is one of the few States that have participated in crucial missions in three continents: in Europe ( Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo ), in Africa ( Angola and Mozambique ), in the Middle East ( Lebanon ) and in Asia ( Afghanistan and Timor-Leste ). The Portuguese Armed Forces have always served with great distinction in all the international military missions of NATO and the European Union and in the peace operations of the United Nations. It is impossible to ignore the importance of Portugal's participation in international military missions. This participation is crucial not only to consolidate Portugal's status and reputation as a responsible member of the international community, but also to strengthen its position in the Atlantic Alliance, the European Union and the United Nations Organization. This participation is also essential to reaffirm the permanent objectives of Portuguese foreign policy. There is no foreign policy if the State does not have the political will and the means necessary to impose its decisions on international policy. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The CDS has always defended Portugal's participation in NATO. In this regard, there is a great difference between the democratic parties of the Government's arch and the parties to the left of the Socialist Party. As for the PCP, we categorically know its position: they are by dissolution and are against NATO, the result of its anachronistic strategic positioning. As for the Left Block, we know that it defends the exit of our Atlantic Alliance Country, the result of its very peaceful and romantic vision of international relations. Our position is clear: Portugal is a founding country of NATO and should continue to be an active member of the Atlantic Alliance. Well challenging is the perception of responsibility on the part of the Socialist Party that, one day, says that Portugal is an active member of NATO — and well! — and the following day, by the voice of one of your leaders, says that, and I quote, 'The Left Block and the CFP can help in the reform that NATO needs'. What do we have to do with it, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Does the PS want Portugal to engage as an active actor in the Atlantic Alliance or want to be a destabilizer of that same Alliance? The question remains for the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We can say that NATO continues to be vital for the defence of territorial integrity and national cohesion, as well as for the modernization and internationalization of the Portuguese Armed Forces. Moreover, Portugal's geographical centrality in the Euro-Atlantic area remains the main factor of balance in our European marginality. Portugal should endeavour to comply fully with its obligations under the Atlantic Alliance, including a gradual increase, as the current Government has done in recent years by unlocking necessary investments to the Armed Forces. The multilateral approach to national defence and security remains indispensable to ensure the place of Portugal as an integral part of the transatlantic security community. I would also like to make a reference in this Atlantic dimension to the last point in the draft resolution under consideration: the strengthening of the transatlantic link in its bilateral dimension with the United States of America, in particular the follow-up of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, in particular with regard to the conclusion of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, currently in negotiations between the European Union and the United States of America, defending the national and European interest. This bench, faithful to its Atlantista DNA, welcomes the Portuguese Government's negotiating behaviour on this matter and again conveys its support for the success of future rounds of negotiation for the transatlantic partnership agreement. However, I must point out that at the hearing of the Committee on European Affairs with the Secretary of State for European Affairs last June on this treaty between the European Union and the United States of America, the Left Block and the CFP have shown not only to be against this agreement, as it would already be expected, but to be more than that against the liberalisation of trade. They are clearly antagonistic to ours. Once again, I would like to know whether the PS believes that Portugal should actively follow this process or simply tear off this opportunity that Portugal places at the top of international trade. This question remains for the Socialist Party. The importance of the Atlantic to Portugal is evident. It is clear from this point of view that the majority of the Member States of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries are around the Atlantic. And it is also evident when Portugal is all the more central in the Atlantic area as it is peripheral in enlarged Europe. This ocean united from the north to the south also reinforces the importance of the Lusophonia, because on both sides there are two Portuguese-speaking powers, such as Angola and Brazil. And in this context of the Lusophony, I highlight one of the points of the draft resolution: « Intensify the action of CPLP as an instrument for the defence and projection of the Portuguese language and promote political, economic and cultural collaboration as a factor in the affirmation of its Member States in the world, promoting good relations between the luxophone states». Portugal must strive to establish itself as a link between the CPLP countries, its regions of integration with Europe and even the transatlantic area of the north. That is our added value. But it is not just a matter of taking advantage of the economic dimension as a wider set of areas which include cooperation in security and defence matters. I also refer to Portugal's commitment to the bilateral framework with Cape Verde and São Tomé and Príncipe. Bilateral defence agreements with these countries can contribute to the confirmation of their credentials as a security-producing country, establishing relevant ways of consolidating their national autonomy and, at the same time, defending their values and interests, strengthening development bases more promisingly. I conclude by saying, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, who, as expressed in the draft resolution presented by the CDS and the PSD, the historic democratic tradition inserts Portugal into three major strategic areas: the Atlantic, Europe and the Lusophony. It is this tradition that we want here today to reaffirm. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u7	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Margarida Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u8	Mr President, Mr Rebelo, with regard to the draft resolution we are discussing today, on the fundamental guidelines of Portuguese foreign policy, our first comment is that the Socialist Party's foreign policy commitments are defined in its Government Programme, where I think they are both clear about the three dimensions that Mr has referred to as the guidelines and what the Socialist Party thinks about this. With regard to this draft resolution in particular, first of all we reaffirm the fact that we are again referring to the process of budgetary consolidation and the deepening of economic and monetary union, which we discussed yesterday on the subject of another draft resolution. So I do not know whether, from now on, we have to reaffirm every day the respect for the deepening of economic and monetary union and the process of budgetary consolidation! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u9	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u10	A second comment I would like to make on asylum and refugee policy concerns your expression'refugee reception', and I stress 'welcome'. The European policy and legal instrument that exists at European level on refugee policy were adopted during the Portuguese Presidency with Minister António Costa. to the extent that there is a refugee policy, I do not know whether they refer to'refugee policy' because they do not want to subscribe to the policy adopted at the time of the Portuguese Presidency, being Minister António Costa, or if it is a different matter? What you refer to is'refugees'. Does this mean that they renew their commitment to the reception of refugees or refugee policy? It is because refugee policy integrates the reception of refugees, but goes beyond this reception of refugees. A third question concerns renewing the commitment of the Portuguese State to promote and strengthen its participation in the neighbourhood policy, particularly with regard to the Mediterranean. On this issue, we would like to say the following: the Mediterranean is today a cemetery that must shame all Europeans and many European leaders, in particular. But the neighbourhood policy is not limited to the Mediterranean, so in this particular case, I would like to ask the honourable Member why he renews the compromise with regard to the neighbourhood policy for the Mediterranean and whether, for example, the neighbourhood policy for Ukraine or the partnership to the east do not concern him. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u11	To reply, Mr. João Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u12	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Marques, I am grateful for the important questions you have asked. Firstly, I would like to say that refugee policy and immigration policy are two different policies, which I would like to separate. With regard to refugee policy, I would like to point out that Portugal — and Mr Rui Machete is present who will be able to clarify it on this subject — has spoken in all the international bodies of which it is part (the European Union, the United Nations ) about its willingness to receive part of these refugees, which is already happening and which will surely intensify. I can only reaffirm what was said by the Government when it was faced with this situation and I can also confirm what was said in the election campaign by all the parties with parliamentary seats — I am obviously not referring to other parties with more extreme positions. I would therefore like you to make that point clear from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u14	Mrs Margarida Marques asked whether further draft resolutions would continue to be presented which echoed the issue of the process of budgetary consolidation and the deepening of economic and monetary union, since yesterday that matter was also discussed in relation to another draft resolution. I will return that question to the honourable Member. In fact, in my speech, I asked two questions because, at this moment, some leaders of the Socialist Party, which is an essential party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u15	It was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u16	...to ensure cohesion in these policies, they have made statements that I do not agree with what the honourable Member has just said. I also mentioned in my speech a PS Member who said that he was waiting for the contribution of the Left Block and the PCP to think about the reform that NATO needs. In other words, when there are two parties that want the dissolution and exit of Portugal from NATO, what reform is it that you think can be done with these parties? Therefore, the question remains for you, for your Parliamentary Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u17	On the other hand, the honourable Member also asked whether the CDS and the PSD could expect a co-operating attitude with the future hypothetical government of the Socialist Party on European affairs, which Mr Vitalino Canas also placed yesterday in the intervention he did here. Mrs Margarida Marques, read what you said today in an interview to the Vice-President of your bench. In fact, I say to you: the Vice-President of your bench said that the PS will not need the votes of the Democratic Social Party to rule on European affairs. So you're gonna need the votes of who? of the two parties which are against the single currency or against Portugal's participation in the European Union? Madam Member, who owes a lot of explanations to the country is the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u18	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u19	I shall conclude, Mr President, — I am sorry that I have exceeded the time he had to spend — with a Portuguese expression: the Socialist Party has been 'each cave in its minhoca' because no one knows where it is going at this time. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u20	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Contrary to the nature of draft resolution No 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), which was discussed yesterday and which is limited to asking for respect for the commitments signed by the Portuguese State, and very well, draft resolution No 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) attempts to link the parties of this Assembly to a treaty under discussion, the TTIP, which we consider to be totally harmful to the interests of Portuguese and European citizens. Now, any Member present in this Chamber who agrees with the signing of such an agreement, as well as any ruler who, on behalf of the Portuguese people, signs an agreement, will individually be responsible for greater flexibility in the use of pesticides and insecticides in the field and, with this practice, the existence of more irradiated foods, the expected increase in non-communicable chronic diseases; for less information on the labelling of foods, including their provenance; for the use of higher quantities of antibiotics for healthy animals, rather than for sick persons; for forcing States to grow genetically modified organisms (GMOs); for unacceptable feedback on food safety standards for consumers currently in Europe; for the sharp reduction of local food production; for the loss of sovereignty and food security.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u22	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u23	I will now finish, Mr President. We recall that the European citizen initiative against TTIP and CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) has collected nearly 3 million signatures in the European Union, Portugal being one of the 23 nations where the quorum has been exceeded. The NAP will always be in favour of all forms of fairer cooperation among peoples, provided that they do not involve the domination and subjugation of people, animals and nature. Therefore, we consider draft resolution No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) disproposed and contrary to Portugal's interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u24	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u25	Mr President, allow me, since it is my first intervention in this House, to extend a special greeting to you and to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the draft resolution under discussion, PSD and CDS insist on a parliamentary agenda of those who really want to discuss nothing. It was only an agenda to insist on a permanent parliamentary guerilla. And for what? Just for the President to hear. Not being able to live well with the outcome of the last elections, they are looking for a saving table that still holds them to the government. After all, it is despair that moves them, it is a kind of spirit of survival. What do you want with this debate? They think they will be able to show the world something they've never seen: it seems that the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens have their own positions and thoughts. Now, to remove any doubt, we state clearly and from now on: yes, the Left Block has positions and thoughts; yes, it is possible, with these positions and maintaining our principles, to make a strong agreement that responds to the urgency of the country and that breaks with impoverishment. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, PSDs and CDSs do not really want to be serious about Portuguese foreign policy. If they wanted to, they would have to answer important questions about, for example, CPLP. If we read the text of this draft resolution presented by PSD and CDS, it seems that everything results in the thousand wonders. So, what do they say about the entry into the CPLP of Equatorial Guinea, which is under the blood dictatorship of Teodoro Obiang and has lasted 25 years? Not a word about respect for human rights and democracy in that country! How is it possible that the Portuguese Government has accepted this distortion of the CPLP and its guiding principles? More: what do they say about Obiang's recent statements, which continues to defend the death penalty, even though he promised CPLP that he would end it? And will Equatorial Guinea be accepted in the CPLP for the defense and projection of the Portuguese language? The Portuguese Government has been totally silent in the face of the strength of the business around finance and oil from Equatorial Guinea — this is the real stain on Portuguese foreign policy and has the hand of the Government of the PSD and the CDS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u26	The CPLP has in its guiding principles the « Primate of Peace, Democracy, the Rule of Law, Good Governance, Human Rights and Social Justice », as set out in Article 5 ( e ). the Statute of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries. You know, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS? Apparently not. at least they did not remember these guiding principles Rui Machete, Steps Rabbit or Paulo Portas. The PSD and the CDS in this draft resolution also did not write a single word about the persecution of young people in Angola and its trial, which shows that there is no "rule of law" there. The Angolan regime has arrested, tortured and is judging several young people, including Luaty Beerão, whose only crime was to be reading a book. What do we know about the choices made by the PSD and the CDS regarding foreign policy? Well, it has already said to the people that "who will consent" and that is what we are watching. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for a serious debate on the issues in question, we would say that one of the fundamental pillars of foreign policy and international relations is that of promoting peace and solidarity, respect for and compliance with the Charter of the United Nations and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In accordance with Article 7 ( 1 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, and I quote, « Portugal is governed in international relations by the principles of national independence, respect for human rights, the rights of peoples, equality between States, the peaceful solution of international conflicts (...) ». However, the draft resolution does not ignore this article of the Constitution and does not mention the words « peace» and « solidarity » once and for all, which is surprising and even strange. Only shows the choices and omissions of the person submitting this document. The world is living in very difficult and dangerous times, and it is proving that we have the rise of phenomena such as xenophobia, racism, migratory waves of refugees, who flee wars and face-to-face walls of bitter wire and police charges, the proliferation of civil wars and terrorism. And the most recent example was the tragic events of the terrorist attacks that took place in Paris last November 13, perpetrated by fanatic monsters at the orders of the self-designate Islamic State. All this monstrousness had the unequivocal and absolute condemnation of all of us two days ago here in the Assembly of the Republic. We already realize that a escalation of violence is taking place. Let us not deceive ourselves: any false step, the explosion of hatred and war, the use of the slogan 'eye by eye, tooth by tooth' will only lead to more suffering, war, the most innocent victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u28	We do not forget what happened to military interventions under the direction of the United States of America and NATO in countries such as Iraq, Libya and Afghanistan. The Pandora's box has opened and the devil has gone to rest: completely destroyed countries, proliferation of wars and terrorism, hundreds of thousands of victims and hundreds of thousands of refugees. We remember the Lajes Summit and where it was right at that time: along with the lies that justified the policy of bombs. One, was awarded and fled to the golden exile of Brussels for two years, the other, Paulo Portas, was decorated by the Pentagon. We have memory and we don't forget! Is there any apology that PSD and CDS want to make the country for this shameful episode? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is urgent that the sources that finance the Islamic State should be cut off, that they should end the purchase of oil, that they should end up with the tax havens where the money would pass for the purchase of weapons.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u29	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u30	I will now finish, Mr President. It is necessary to go to sources of finance and trade and to cut off evil by the root. On this subject, the draft resolution under discussion is also omitted. Many of the jihadists' weapons are Europeans, Americans, Russians, Israelis and, in addition, we must question the role of countries such as Saudi Arabia, other monarchies of the Persian Gulf and even Turkey itself in this conflict. Where's the courage for that?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u31	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u32	I will now finish, Mr President. Retaliation bombardment is always the easiest, but it has often proved to be the wrong answer. Are we gonna keep making that mistake? The Left Block is, as it has always been, available for all serious debates, but that is not what was proposed for us by this draft resolution. So, without surprise, he will deserve our reprobation. But there are those who want to draw internal illusions from this vote as regards the response of the Block to the social urgency that lives in the country. For the PSD and the CDS I will say, as mentioned in the popular giraffe, "get the rainy little horse out of there! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u33	Mr. João Vasconcelos, I am taking advantage of paying tribute to the Bureau and wishing it a good legislature, fulfilling the time available to intervene. To request clarification from Mr Vasconcelos — although he will not get an answer, but in any case it is recorded in the Minutes — Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u34	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to begin by congratulating all of you and all of you on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Ladies and gentlemen, and wish them a great mandate. Mr. João Vasconcelos, although there is no time to answer, there are a number of issues that arise from his speech. Two of Portugal's fundamental, nuclear and founding commitments in international terms are the Budgetary Treaty and the Atlantic Alliance. In fact, we also find that in Portugal there is a new alliance, an alliance of parties to the left of the Portuguese political space and an alliance that, almost 100 years ago on the Russian Revolution, seems almost an alliance between Mensheviks and Bolsheviks, which is also curious. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Take it easy! It is no less curious that, on these two subjects, which are fundamental, there is a dissonance, on the one hand, between the Socialist Party and, on the other hand, the parties of the extreme left—to see at least! Anyway, and as the people say, "Tell me who you are and I will tell you who you are!"
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u36	It is that, more than words, it matters the acts and what happens from here on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u37	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u38	As regards the budgetary treaty on 28 October in European terms in the European Parliament, the European subsidiaries of the Left Block and the CFP voted for the end of the budget treaty. Also with regard to the Atlantic Alliance, with the recent exercises carried out by NATO in Portugal, we also had the Left Block and the Communist Party publicly protest against the exercises and against the Atlantic Alliance. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Catarina Martins, when she was in the Azores, also expressed support for the exit of the Americans from the Lajes Base, no matter, of course, the consequences that this will also have from a socio-economic point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u39	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u40	So, if there was time to answer, the question would be: what juries in this matter? Are we on the one hand, or are we on the other? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u41	The Bureau shall pay the compliments and the votes of good mandate in this Parliament. Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The challenges we face today in Europe and in the world call for all of us to vote and to have an active participation in Portugal's foreign policy in all its dimensions. throughout the last 40 years the position of Portugal in the international context, based on the construction and deepening of the European project, in a transatlantic relationship of proximity and in the constant affirmation of continuous cooperation with the luxophone community, has, on a large scale, contributed to the defense of our autonomy, prosperity and credibility as a free, inclusive and democratic nation. The discussion of this draft resolution aims to confirm the same: a European, transatlantic and aggregator Portugal of the Lusophonia, open to the world and creating opportunities; a Portugal participating in the stability, defence and security of the European and international context; a Portugal committed to the process of budgetary consolidation, the deepening of economic and monetary union and respect for treaties. Because, after all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt that anyone who says that he has a political agreement to govern Portugal, but that he is not converging with these premises, of two: either he is either deceiving himself and, therefore, misleading the Portuguese, or he is using an ambush to take advantage of the exercise of power. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u43	But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the last few days have brought the debate, certainly for the worst reasons, the importance of the relationship and cooperation of the European nations and their allies with regard to an effective common defence and security policy. It is in this sense that Portugal must understand its responsibilities within the framework of the Union and NATO. The growing phenomena of terrorism constitute a clear external and internal threat to national security, which must result in close cooperation with our European partners and international allies. These phenomena, together with others of no less important importance, are preponderant challenges where the role of armed forces and security and diplomacy is of particular importance in the way of maintaining peace, collective well-being and fighting for the security of all citizens, but also in terms of an effective and inclusive policy for the protection of refugees and political asylum seekers from exploitation, hunger, fear and intolerance that they look to Europe as a new opportunity. It is also here that Portugal must, within the framework of the Union, promote European and internal solidarity, but at the same time be firm in strengthening the fight against trafficking, illegal migration flows and the presence of maritime security. It is also here, Mr President, in all this dimension, that the Portuguese should know what their country, their Parliament and those who want to be an alternative to government. for our part, Mr President, we reiterate that these are our deep convictions, but it is good to make the following clear: we have known for days that in life and politics there is agreement on what there is agreement and there is no agreement on what there is no agreement. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u44	of the data which are known, this draft resolution deals with many matters in which there is no agreement of any kind, so there is no unequivocal welcome from Parliament to these challenges. Now, Mr President, if the claims of this tripartite agreement are to be put forward, there is an essential question: with whom will the Socialist Party count, since with its partners, on this matter, you can only account? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u45	There are no requests for clarification, Mr Vitalino Canas of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u46	Mr President, Mr Minister for Parliamentary Affairs and Mr Minister for State and Foreign Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members : They propose the PSD and the CDS that the Assembly of the Republic, in an unprecedented and perhaps unusual exercise, replaces the Government with the definition of general guidelines on foreign policy. If we did not know that this draft resolution is part of a rather sophisticated strategy to find imaginary fissures, hesitations and innovations, we would certainly be amazed at the slightness with which the parties that support the government are ready to enter its competences, proposing that this House adopt general guidelines on foreign policy, as set out in the draft resolution. Thus, it is proposed in the draft resolution that we reaffirm our participation in the UN, the European Union, NATO and the CPLP and, by means of virtually nothing, there is an allusion to the Strategic Concept of National Defence and an individualized reference to bilateral relations between Portugal and the United States, neglecting, without any explanation, bilateral relations with all the other States with which Portugal maintains privileged relations. Also lateralizing on the issue of Portugal's foreign policy, the TTIP is mentioned, a treaty that will govern the European Union's external and commercial relations with the United States of America. It is unfortunate that the PSD and the CDS, by covering cases and something arbitrarily, have not done so with at least rigor and without significant omissions. It is that, when talking about Portugal's bilateral relations with the United States of America, we must not forget the situation of Lajes and the absolute need to maintain dialogue with that ally in order to find solutions that minimize or eliminate the effects of the decisions announced by it. When we speak of a supposed commitment by political forces to the Strategic Concept of National Defence, we should not ignore all the reluctances raised by the Socialist Party in 2013. Even with regard to the TTIP, on which the Socialist Party's Government's programme expresses a favourable position in principle, it remains prudent to retain some reservations, since the results of the negotiations on very sensitive aspects, particularly those relating to European interest and national interest, are still unknown. I would, however, like to leave here that we are curious to know, Mr. João Rebelo, if ever a government other than the Government of the CDS and PSD, here bring the TTPI, what the PSD and CDS will do in relation to that treaty. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if it were not the seriousness of the moment we live in Europe and the world, this draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS could only be seen as an exercise without substance enough to deserve, even a minute of our attention, and can be voted perfectly without any debate or consideration. However, the PS uses to highlight some of the fundamental lines of foreign, European and defence policy for more than 40 years of democracy, and the principles for which the reigns are fully valid, even at these disturbing times. These are times when Daesh is configured as the greatest threat the world faces, but we cannot forget the conflict in East, Ukraine, the situation in Libya and sub-Saharan African States like Mali — and today we are once again seeing the importance of what is living in Mali — and even the escalating and worsening of the situation in Afghanistan. All these scenarios pose a threat to Europe's vital interests, its security, the freedom of its citizens and the prosperity of its economies. In view of this, there is only one solution: we persist in the fundamental values of freedom, democracy and solidarity and its intransigent defense. On the one hand, Europe cannot close within walls, deaf to the dramas of refugees fleeing war and death; on the other hand, it cannot remain impassable in the face of increasing deadly hostility to its values and to the lives of its citizens. To this end, it is vital to strengthen collective defence mechanisms, whether within organizations such as NATO, especially those resulting from Article 5. that of the North Atlantic Treaty, or in the context of the European Union, as in Article 42. paragraph 7 of the Treaty on European Union, recently implemented by France, with the support of all Member States. Of course, it is not only defence that will result in solving the problems; diplomacy and boldness are required in certain cases. Russia, with which we have been in persistent conflict since the illegitimate annexation of Crimea, is an essential ally in the fight against Daesh. This should be a reason for deepening the solution to solve the Donbass problem, but also for defining a formula for the evolution of the Syrian regime. In all these scenarios, Portugal's compliance with the fundamental principles of foreign and defence policies, which have been assumed over 40 years of constitutional democracy and which have prestigious and internationally recognized it, will allow us to play a constructive, moderate and balanced role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u47	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u48	Mr President, I congratulate you on the first time I spoke in the plenary and, in your own person, I congratulate all of you and all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the preamble to the Washington Treaty, the values, intentions and principles of the United Nations Charter are reaffirmed, whose respect we have won after 2. the World War, and incorporates the way of life of our societies and international coexistence: peace, freedom, democracy and respect for law. These are also the values that are in NATO's genesis and which today are being challenged by a terrorist group. And if these values are being questioned, it is our obligation to ensure that they are respected and continue to have a special place in the rules of understanding between the various national and international actors. An aggression to these values such as Friday, 13, may also be an attack on the current order and leads us to conclude that they must be safeguarded and that they cannot be taken as acquired. And this is the big news. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: NATO is an institution that plays a key role in maintaining respect for this value, but it is not the only one. Cooperation between the European Union and NATO must no longer be a design and it must become a reality quickly. And how does Portugal get in the middle of this? Portugal is not immune to the threats of the new crisis arc and must maintain a proactive position within the international security system of which it is part. That's how we defend ourselves. For this reason, we also express our solidarity with France and our understanding when the mutual defence clause is invoked. Being with France right now means being with the advocates of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u50	... means defending living rules based on these values. Being with France today means defending what we are. For all this, the question that Mr Vitalino Canas raised is as follows: at the last meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council for the Defence of the European Union, 27 Member States supported France. What is VV position. Ex. concerning this matter? with regard to the position of the Left Block and the PCP, we all know what it is: they understand that there should be a break with the NATO subservience policy and, as such, they defend the exit of NATO, as their electoral programmes show. As for the PS, the thing is more difficult because, in its optimistic delirium, it is as it was at times named by the Block of the Left, they understand — see there, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — that NATO is an essential instrument of foreign policy. This is certainly one of those issues where there is agreement and there is no agreement where there is no agreement. [[PCP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. It understands the PCP as Article 7. the Constitution, paragraph 2, defends the dissolution of NATO. However, the great constitutionalists of the PS bench, as Mr. Bacelar de Vasconcelos, say, and I quote : « You cannot draw the conclusion that Portugal must join or abandon any organization to which it belongs ». The number of this article is the testimony of the Portuguese Republic's commitment to the construction of world peace. This is what makes you a consistent and harmonious coalition, of course. This is VV. They certainly told your voters so many of them with family migrants in France during your election campaign. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u51	Mrs. Angela War, the Bureau pays its compliments and wishes you, too, a good legislature. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are witnessing a second act of the same stage. After the relatively shocking debate that we had yesterday on the initiative of the PSD and the CDS —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u53	It's just that he left because of you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u54	... shock because, indeed, it has failed all its objectives — today we have the second act of the same stagnation, equally shock, in relation to what were the objectives of the PSD and CDS. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is obviously a scene because it does not produce any kind of discussion; this is a non-debate, it is a non-debate. And this is because, of the approval or rejection of these initiatives, the same is true: nothing. If these PSD and CDS resolution projects, which were discussed yesterday and today, are approved, then there is nothing about the reality we have today; if they are rejected, it is exactly the same: nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u55	Therefore, from the point of view of the objectives, the debate is not really focused on the initiatives that are being brought here. We must therefore understand this debate in its true objective, and its true objective is a desperate and opportunistic exercise by the PSD and the CDS to seek to recover from its electoral defeat. Mr. Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, on the other hand, takes note of this, the objective of both the PSD and the CDS, or the Government that is attached to it, is to seek to find a division in the benches to the left of the PSD. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I'm sorry, Minister, if this is a surprise to you, but if it is, it's just because you're careless. If for Mr Minister it is a surprise that the PS has positions different from those of the CFP, in relation to the matters that are dealt with here, then it is because you are ignoring the national political reality and this can cause us to doubt whether you remain in the government or even the justification of this government. [[Congratulations from the PCP and some of the PS Members.]] Mr. Minister and Mr. and Mr. Members, it is important to say that the PSD and the CDS really did not want to discuss any of the matters contained in the text of this draft resolution,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... they just wanted to make this stagnation, they just wanted to seek this goal to rescue themselves from the electoral defeat that they suffered with the loss of 700 000 votes, 25 Members and the absolute majority... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and that's what they really meant. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter of foreign policy... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the voicemail, I will continue. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the matter of foreign policy is important enough to deserve further treatment in the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u56	It is important enough to deserve another treatment, unlike the unworthy treatment that the PSD and the CDS wanted to give it. This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal's participation in the United Nations and its sectoral organisations, Portugal's respect for the Charter of the United Nations is important enough to deserve a different treatment from what you want to give. This is because it is important for Portugal to respect the Charter of the United Nations and, for example, to discuss this matter about aggressions against sovereign States, about Portugal's participation in acts of aggression against sovereign States, as happened in the past, but this position, coming from the PSD and the CDS, which still have their hands stained with participation in the war of aggression to Iraq, on the edge of the Charter of the United Nations, will not surprise. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] Mrs. Members, the participation of Portugal in the CPLP and the deepening of the CPLP as a space for cooperation, dissemination and exploitation of the Portuguese language, the culture of peoples, a space for cooperation and respect for peace, for sovereignty, for independence and for the self-development of each country is a debate that deserves serious treatment, but that is not what you here have wanted to bring. The issue relating to asylum policy and the reception of refugees deserves treatment because it corresponds to the dignity and importance of this matter, but you also did not want to bring it here, because they are still tied to that logic of discussion of reception of refugees based on quotas. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the issues which have already been brought here, relating to the TTIP, which raises concerns about the impact of this Treaty on the economy and on the productive sectors of countries such as Portugal, the impact on employment-related matters, food security, the environment, with the protection of citizens' privacy in their personal data or with the sovereignty of States, in particular in the field of justice, a serious debate must be held on the conditions required...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u57	Then do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u58	... and should not be cornered, as you have done with these initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the NATO debate, the CDS particularly criticized the position of the CFP vis-à-vis NATO, not realizing that, by criticizing the CFP position, it was also criticizing the position to which the CSD is obliged to respect and which is the result of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PCP applause.]] The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic states in Article 7 ( 2 ). the, which Portugal must advocate the dissolution of the political-military blocs and the establishment of a collective security system, with a view to creating an international order capable of ensuring peace and justice in relations between peoples. The CDS wanted to ‘pass as a dog for vintage wine’ on this aspect related to the obligation to comply with the Constitution. It is no wonder, for the only party who voted against the Constitution, that they do not want to respect it, but even if they voted against the Constitution, you are obliged to comply with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u59	Go on, go on, this is going very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u60	It was this last look that I wanted to mention here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the debates that we had in the last two days, either related to the subject which was discussed yesterday, the subject of European commitments, or the one we are discussing today related to foreign policy, there was not a single reference to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic by the PSD and the CDS,... [[He's wrong! He didn't hear!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u61	...which is the document that really sets the foundations of our democratic regime...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u62	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u63	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, a document that truly sets the foundations of our democratic regime, that we find what are the foundations of a perspective of progress, of our country's development and of international relations. It is no wonder that PSD and CDS have not made a single reference to the Constitution, considering that for four years while they were in government, they did nothing but disrespect the Constitution, but violated constitutional norms and were caught in the curve by the Constitutional Court. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u65	I conclude, Mr. President. And it is this same attitude of confrontation with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic that maintains, refusing to accept that they were defeated in the elections,... [[Let's go, let's go! The PCP won!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u66	... that they do not have the conditions to continue to govern and that they must be replaced by the Government of the Country. [[PCP applause.]] If that was your other goal, they will also end up being defeated in this debate. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u67	For an intervention, Mr Minister for State and Foreign Affairs has the floor, and I would like to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating Mr President, thanking him for his congratulations, as well as the other members of the Bureau and the ladies and gentlemen. Members in my first speech in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u69	May it be the last!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u70	at a time when the multiplicity and complexity of external threats require more and more demanding responses and international cooperation without failures, the Portuguese and our allies expect political leaders to be firm for purposes and actions that confirm our commitment and loyalty. The times we live demonstrate, again and in a very obvious way, the reason for being of the Atlantic Alliance that Portugal is a founding member. The issues raised in the draft resolution today under consideration in the Assembly merited in the electoral programmes of the CFP, the Greens and BE very different and contradictory treatments in relation to what has been defended over the years by the PS, including in this last electoral campaign. when the so-called joint positions are established between the PS, on the one hand, and those mentioned parties, on the other, the situation has become, for a large majority of the citizens, quite confused. in reality, these documents are recognized and assumed the different nature of programs, their differences as to the structural aspects of each individual's political options. These differences cover fundamental areas of foreign policy that I give here some examples: the CFP and the Greens, in terms of national defence, propose in their electoral programme, and I quote: « the dissolution of NATO and opposition to any European political-military bloc and the growing involvement of Portugal in multinational forces outside the scope of the UN and in disrespect for international law ». The Left Block, in turn, defends, and I quote again, « the departure of NATO and diplomatic action by the extinction of NATO and all military blocs ». The PS, on the contrary, includes NATO as a whole in multilateral organisations that consider them to be the priority area of Portugal's participation at international level, as clearly reflected in its programme. The events of the last few days in Paris led France to apply for the activation of the mutual defence clause of the Treaty on European Union, the first time that such a step has been taken. at this unpublished moment when the European Union and each of the Member States are called upon to say, without hesitation, 'present', in a relentless struggle against one of the most serious threats in recent decades, it is especially appropriate for the House to renew, on behalf of the Portuguese people, Portugal's accession to the European project and reaffirm our vocation to participate in its most advanced and integrated structures. All of this shows that military cooperation is an important component in the defence systems of all Member States and that there is close cooperation between the European Union and NATO. The joint positions signed by the PS are completely omitted in this area, which must be concluded that the PCP, The Greens and the Left Block will certainly continue to be guided by their own programmatic standards and that in this chapter there will be no agreement with the Socialist Party; before, there will be antagonism. We can therefore ask ourselves how this House would vote if the government needed its support for national aid to a brother country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the strengthening of the transatlantic bond is not simply a summary of the critical issues of defence, but also has a strong component of economic, scientific and cultural cooperation and cannot forget the large Portuguese community living in the United States of America and Canada. The anti-Americanism of the PCP, certainly reminiscent of the cold war, is traditional practice that the young Block of Left also intends to denounce the cooperation and defence agreement concluded between Portugal and the United States. In this way, they both want Portugal to exclude itself from the political West, even here nothing is said, in the so-called joint positions, that alters the programmatic guideline of the parties in the extreme left of this Hemicycle. With regard to the CPLP, it is important for the PS to clarify whether, like the current government and the coalition supporting it, it gives priority in its external policy to the necessary measures to be taken for the progress of the CPLP. We thus come to the key issue, to know how PS, PCP, The Greens and the Left Block respond to the essential issues raised in the field of defence and Atlantic cooperation today, after they have signed the joint positions. The PS wants the last three parties to be part of the area of governance, but, in fact, by reading the programme of these parties and by praising them with the joint positions, it seems necessary to conclude that the intended governance arc is summed up, after all, only to a negative governance: to put down the Constitutional Government formed by the coalition that won the elections. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is very little to be considered as part of the governance framework, but it is too damaging to the political stability and economic progress of Portugal. It is therefore particularly important for the PS to clarify its position on this point without misconception. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If we change the international profile of the country, we will lose our credibility, which was decisive in overcoming the crisis that we have recently overcome. If the others fail to trust us, we will lose the opportunity to raise foreign investment in effective terms and Portugal's economic competitiveness will decrease substantially. The well-being of the Portuguese will be called into question. This is therefore not clearly the way forward. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u71	Mrs. Members, having no inscriptions to request clarification, the debate on draft resolution No 5 / XIII ( 1 ) is closed. ( a). Turning to the second point of our agenda, we have, for joint assessment, in general, the projects of lein.os 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Elimination of legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( First amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ) ( BE), 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ), 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ), 28 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equality of rights in access to adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex by making the second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PAN) and 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Registry Code, taking into account adoption, assisted medicinal product procreation and civil sponsorship by same-sex couples (BE). For the presentation of diplomas, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project that the Left Block, today, brings back the need and the urgency to put an end to discrimination that shamefully limits the freedom of several citizens and citizens to form a family in this country, responds to the need to ensure that the law treats equally couples of the same sex and couples of different sex, responds to the consecration of the most fundamental rights and the best interests of children. Four times, in the past legislature, this matter came to debate in this House ; four times, in the past legislature, prejudice has won and the country has lost. A tolerant and democratic society is the one that treats all its citizens in the same way, regardless of the opinions and personal opinions that we have, and not denying some, based on preconceived ideas, fundamental rights, such as the right to equal treatment, before the law. The adoption by couples of the same sex is now legally recognized in several countries: Denmark, Uruguay, England, Belgium, Israel, Iceland, South Africa, France or Spain, just to give some examples. last November 4 was the time of Colombia. The legal regime of adoption establishes as preconditions for the capacity to apply for the adoption of age limits and requires marriage or de facto union for more than four years. There is no reference to the sexual orientation of those who wish to adopt. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear, it is not here to decide who can, or not, adopt, what is decided here is the possibility for couples of the same sex to be able to apply for adoption under conditions similar to those of couples of different sex. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] This is the right to be candidates and candidates for adoption. The responsibility to assess whether the conditions required for the adoption of a child are met is always up to the technicians of the social security adoption teams and the final decision of the delivery of a child to a homosexual or heterosexual family will always be taken into court. Sexual orientation cannot be a criterion for exclusion and for vetoing rights. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, PCP and Os Verdes.]] There is no valid reason why same-sex couples continue to be prohibited from adopting. There is no evidence suggesting that parents and mothers, gays and lesbians, either in their parental skills or in the creation of the bond they establish with the child. There is no scientific basis to assume that the sexual orientation of parents or mothers will negatively affect the development of children; on the contrary, the results of numerous international and national studies, conducted in recent decades, reveal the same level of cognitive, social, sexual and emotional development of children, whether taught by homosexual families or educated by heterosexual families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u74	Just as there is no basis for the assumption that a child brought up by a gay or lesbian couple grows without female or male references. If we accept this idea, then we would have to ban singular adoptions as well. In fact, this idea cannot be affirmed without falling into ridicule. It cannot be said that a child growing up in a homosexual family or in a single parent family is forbidden the interaction with figures of the other sex, in the various spaces of his family, school or social life.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u76	I also recall the opinions of various national and international bodies on this matter. The Superior Council of the Magistratura, the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, the Baroness of the Order of Lawyers, Dr. Helena Fraga, the American Association of Psychiatry and Psychology — the list is too extensive for the time I have available — all these entities are unanimous in affirming the need and legitimacy to break with this discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u77	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u79	But this bill also guarantees respect for the best interests of children, because it guarantees all children the right to their family,... [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] ... because it responds to the reality of thousands of children who live in our country today, inserted into homosexual families and to whom, at this time, the law says that their family is not valid, that their family is a farce, to whom, at this time, the law refuses access to health care and social benefits, by both parents or mothers, to whom, at this time, the law denies, in the event of separation, the right to alimony, to whom, at this time, the law denies, in the event of death, the proper pension for death and successive rights, to whom, at this time, the law denies the security that is fundamental to their full development and integration into society, to whom the law denies the rights it confers on all other children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u80	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u81	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, children deserve to know that their relations with their parents are stable and legally recognized. All the children! [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] But this project still responds to the desires of thousands of institutionalized children, who hope for their right to have, like all others, a family that educates them, loves them and cares for them irrevocably. The idea that institutionalization does not serve the best interests of children is established. As much as the institutions try to approach in size, structure and organization of family units, the truth is that children, at the end of the day, do not have to call them father or mother. And those who know the reality of these children, especially those who know and want to hear them, realize that they are stripped of prejudices on which adults are based to make decisions on their behalf. [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, because the rights cannot be left half of them, it is also important to ensure equal treatment for all families in civil registration. Considering that the civil registration refers to the sitting of the facts of the lives of individuals, which are therefore of a public nature and, as such, have direct implications for the social integration of individuals, it is essential that children, children and daughters of couples of the same sex have a civil record equivalent to that of others. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have today, here and now, the opportunity to make history. Today, here and now, we have the opportunity to overcome prejudice, overcome hypocrisy and enshrine the equality that all citizens and citizens deserve, be heterosexual, be homosexual. [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]] Today, here and now, we have the opportunity to effectively fulfill the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u83	Mrs. And ladies and gentlemen, history is in your hands! [[Congratulations from the BE, the PS, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u84	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, men and women present here waiting for full citizenship: there is no more noble way to start a legislature than by realizing fundamental rights. Today, especially today, children are listening to us. Today it is our priority responsibility and our privilege to end serious discrimination. The PS assumes this responsibility when it does not assume it would mean an incomprehensible civilizational retrogression. What is at stake is to put a final point in excluding the possibility of same-sex couples to apply for adoption and, consequently, to be possible, also in same-sex couples, the adoption of the spouse's son or actually united, which is already, in fact, father and mother, although shamefully not recognized in the law. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] Homoparentity, although all fundamental rights are counter-majority, is a much more peaceful issue than any other of the achievements already signed in relation to the rights of LGBT people ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgenders). It's a debate! Today, we are also doing a repair that has been requested from us, which has been demanded from us, because the children are listening to us. on this day, when the children are listening to us, we are repairing the offense that the House of Democracy addressed to them in the past legislature, denying them the right, which with this project is consecrated, of the law to recognize who is your father or mother already. Against the European Court of Human Rights, against the scientific consensus in favour of adoption and co-ordination, against the official position of the Institute of Child Support, attempting to subject the permanent emotional ties of children of flesh and bone to a referendum, this was denied to them, attacking concrete families, already existing, desperate for legal certainty. [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] Today, we call on Parliament to repair the fact and remain on the right side of history. It is clear that nothing prevents any couple from applying for adoption, in a logic of positive parenthood, in a country that has to aim for institutionalized children a desired bond by those who apply, a lasting and protective bond of the child. The assurance that homoparentity in nothing undermines the development of personality is also signed in families that are in our buildings, in our streets, in the schools of our children, who are our children and who do not appear to have been the object of state intervention. Precisely because they are the banality, in the most beautiful sense of the word, they are in the North and South, in the countryside and in the city, they cross social classes, they are people, we are! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The State cannot incite society to feed prejudices. It is not the structure of a couple that ensures the home for a child, are the family synergies that are relevant in each case, to be evaluated in the best interests of children, following the adoption process by different sex couples or a singular adoption, already permitted for gays and lesbians. Those who discriminate have the burden of reasoning on the reasons for doing so. The PS is aware that there is nothing left to anyone who opposes equality, the updating of the Republic, to a value that has come to remain, to the giant responsibility of this moment, of which the strongest sentence must remain: the children are here, the children are listening to us! The PS is sure that this bill is going to meet many people and that it crosses the borders of the parties here present. As written by Professor Paulo Corte-Real, there are many children in Portugal who have two mothers or two parents, integrated in society and who watch television. Those who oppose these families may not want to see these children, but the children will always see and hear this opposition, because the newspaper does not have the “boline”. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] To pass this bill is to end the state that does homophobic anti-bullying campaigns, at the same time that, in legal bullying, tells gays and lesbians and children: "You are not a father! "You are not a mother! »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u87	..."You cannot adopt! "We do not recognize your mother as your mother! "We do not recognize your father as your father! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” To approve this bill is to sign a society that integrates and does not expel, that embraces diversity and does not impose unique family models, that respects the difference against fear of difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u89	Some days ago, a young gay, in the street, with eyes blinded in tears, asked me: "You're not going to say that we're not a priority, right? Is there time for me already? Is our time here yet? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is in the best interests of children to have a family and to live in a structured, healthy and enriching family environment from many different points of view. In Portugal there are thousands and thousands of institutionalized children who, with different routes and for various reasons, have lost or have been removed from their biological family. They are children who have been deprived of a family experience, who find reception in an institution, who, by the way, cannot replace the warmth and care of a family. Having a family is the dream of these children. The only condition is that the family corresponds to a structure that provides stability to the child, love and fair and valuing living conditions. You don't understand, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Members, why is the family concept restricted for those who can adopt children in Portugal, excluding couples made up of people of the same sex. There are several countries in the world and also the European Union, in particular, which devote children to adoption by homosexual couples. In Portugal, progress has been made in eradicating absolutely incomprehensible discrimination of homosexuals, in particular recognizing that all forms of family constitution do not discriminate against anyone according to the sexual orientation of people, as the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic determines. It is not understood, therefore, that the full equality of the family concept, regardless of the sex of people, is recognized and that the full consequence of being a family is not recognized. Society has the right to ensure a good family for all children and, ladies and gentlemen, Members, good and bad families do not depend on the sexual orientation of their members,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u92	... existing both in homosexual and heterosexual couples. And it is to institutions that have competences in the various stages of an adoption process that it is necessary to decide whether or not a family has objective conditions to ensure what best can be offered to create a child. The law is responsible for eradicating a restriction, discrimination, now contained in our legal order, which separates structured families from the right to adoption. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the supporting note of the bill that The Greens today bring to the Assembly of the Republic, in order to extend families with capacity for adoption. This justification has often been presented in this plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, given that this bill of the Greens has already been here for three times in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, discussed and leaded, and this is the fourth time it is presented. Perhaps, by misdirecting the popular motto a little bit, it's fair to say that the fourth is at once! Why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because we are before a new legislature, but that's not all. The novelty is that this new legislation brings a new parliamentary framework, brings a new representativeness of the different political forces in the Assembly of the Republic... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u93	... that will ensure, in the face of the commitments made by each one, the approval of this and other bills that other parliamentary groups bring today to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. And we consider it to be an extremely important day, because every day we take steps in the Portuguese Parliament to eradicate discrimination and promote the happiness of all members of our society will certainly be a just and happy day for Portuguese society. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u94	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u95	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, about this bill presented by the NAP and in the short time that I have, I must say that there is no reason to question the best interests of children, claiming the unfounded negative impact of the sexual orientation of parents and mothers on their development. [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]] All children, including institutionalized children, have the right to have a family that welcomes them, which gives them love, stability, security, commitment and the possibility of creating links and synergies essential to their development. [[P.S., PCP and BE applause.]] Sexual orientation does not call into question parental capacity. on the contrary, the number of homoparent families in Portugal has increased and there are many families made up of same-sex couples with children, biological or adopted, who live in fact happy, but who are not recognized by the state and are not provided with adequate legal protection. Furthermore, in contrast, the State allows a homosexual person to adopt individually, not allowing such adoption to be made by persons of the same sex who are married or actually united.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u96	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u97	I shall now conclude, Mr President, by saying that our position is clear: in Portugal there is clear discrimination in relation to parenthood. This discrimination has also been registered by the European Court of Human Rights and by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, and the failure to comply with Portuguese constitutional law and the international law which our country is bound to. The time has come to restore justice in this area and to give a new opportunity and hope to our children and also to many, and increasingly, rainbow families in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u98	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u99	Mr President, I end by saying that our families are not all the same, but they should all have the same rights! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The matter of full adoption, which we bring to the debate today, by couples of the same sex has a history and has a course. This topic was discussed for the first time at the Assembly of the Republic on 8 January 2010, during the discussion, in general, of the various initiatives aimed at allowing marriage between people of the same sex. It is recalled that the proposal of the then government of José Socrates, which gave rise to Law No. 9 / 2010 of May 31, which allowed marriage between people of the same sex, excluded the possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. And, curiously, at that time, said the then Prime Minister José Socrates, when asked about the willingness to open the discussion on adoption by couples of the same sex,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u102	... and I quote: « The issue of adoption is different, because there is the interest of third parties and the State has to express a position. It is no longer just the decision of two adults but also the collective, our society and the state to have a position». [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u103	I'd say more, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « They all understand the difference between these two issues ». This was the position of the Socialist Party conveyed by its highest responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u104	at this moment, he's out!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u105	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, however, on this matter, the Assembly of the Republic has already discussed and deliberated in the previous Parliament in 2012 by the hands of the Block of the Left and the Greens; in 2013 by the Block of the Left, by the Greens and the Socialist Party ; in 2014 when the proposed law of the JSD Members on the possibility of a referendum; and again in 2015 by the Block of the Left, the Socialist Party and the Green Party for the rejection of these proposals by the majority of the Members. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not wrong. What is the central theme of this discussion? The centre of discussion can only be the best interest of the child, or isn't it? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Without mistake, the PSD assumes, in this discussion, as it has always done, the defense of the best interests of the child. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] But it is never too much to say that, for the PSD, the best interest of the child must always be the ultimate reason that justifies adoption and not any other interests, however legitimate they may seem. As a direct reflection of this concern, changes were made to the adoption regime in the previous legislature. The PSD always took the concern that the adoption institute needed changes, needed to be agile, needed to be improved, needed to be at the service of children and their rights and interests. The PSD pointed to this problem and had the courage to move and improve the adoption institute. Although it is not possible in such a short time to make assessments of the impact of these measures, we are sure that they are safe steps to defend the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u106	You don't know what the child's best interest is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u107	The amendments introduced by Law No 143 / 2015 of 8 September have been based on three pillars: the child as the centre of reform; shortening deadlines and supporting and simplifying the lives of families who want to adopt. In short, the concern of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Government was to unburocratize, with processes possibly less than one year and with guarantees of preservation of the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u108	They had a collection of negative opinions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u109	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, back to today's debate. The PSD is understood as a party whose personalist and realistic action is guided by a serious confrontation, free from ideological dividends and open to democratic public debate and which respects the individual consciousness of each one. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The PSD, paying attention to its nature and tradition, gives its Members freedom of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u110	Is that a CDS?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u111	We don't need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u112	But we do not ignore the fact that freedom of vote can startle a few benches. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is a completely foreign tradition to extreme-left parties, where there is no memory of internal division or dissonance in the sense of vote in any matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u113	And on the far right?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u114	But we in the PSD are not like that and we are proud not to be. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, having freedom of vote is not voting as you wish, it is assumed that a Member will make the complex weight between his convictions and his values, but also the convictions and values of those we represent here. [[PSD applause.]] And it is this freedom of vote, which is very free but very responsible, that the PSD expects of all Members, especially those who make up our bench. And you can count on her. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is well associated with the difference of views, with the exchange of arguments and with the internal debate, but also with the past, its course and with the Portuguese who believe in us and who trust us. The defence of human rights, rights, freedoms and guarantees is not exclusive heritage of any party. In fact, the defense of these rights is part of the genesis of the PSD, by which we have been beaten throughout history and will always be in the defense of these rights that we enter this discussion without prejudice, sectarianism, ideological reserves or any kind of discrimination. We recognize the importance of the subject, although the opportunity of its presentation clearly seems to us to take political advantage of the troubled times in which we live. The chosen moment is unfortunate. Instrumentizing the subject at the service of short-term political programmes or strategies does not seem to us happy or alerted.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u115	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u116	But that is not why we will not be left out of the debate or aside from the responsibilities that are inherent in our mandate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u118	The left brings this issue to the debate not because it is the most important, but because it is one of the most fracturing, and this speaks well of the real concerns of the proponents. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u119	Have shame! Fracturing is discrimination!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u120	And that's how I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is a democratic party that respects the individual consciousness of each individual. Each member of this bench will vote freely and consciously and I am sure that everyone will do so on behalf of the best interests of the child. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u121	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: O 6. the principle of the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child states that «the child needs love and understanding for the full and harmonious development of his personality». Love, affection and affection must be the basis of family relationships. And for this reason, all children have the right to be born and raised in a family that cares for them and loves them unconditionally. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this debate today we resume the discussion of adoption by couples of the same sex. During the last discussion on this subject on 21 January 2015, we stated that this issue has been, directly and indirectly, over the years of discussion and analysis in society and in Parliament, particularly during discussions on changes to the marriage or co-ordination regime. We have affirmed that we respect the understandable expectations and feelings of those who wish to see enshrined the possibility of adoption that is protected to them today, that we do not ignore the existing concrete situations, of formed families, of affection links and effective relationships of kinship and affiliation, and that we seek to reflect on these important issues with depth. The possibility of marriage has created new problems and difficulties in the organization of life of these families to which it is also necessary to respond. In fact, the debate continued to deepen in Portuguese society and there are developments and signs of progressive social acceptance of these families in society. Today we continue to face the reality of children growing up institutionalized waiting to be adopted and couples of people of the same sex who want to adopt but who are prevented by the law of doing it together, seeing themselves obliged to do so individually, delaying or hiding the reality of the organization of their lives in common. By not forgetting, or undervaluing, the need to solve the serious problems that persist today in adoption, and that the previous Government did not want to resolve and even worsen, we want to signal the evolution that is taking place today in this area and we will therefore vote in favour of the projects presented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the path of recognition and effectiveness, in law and in life, of economic, social and cultural rights of children and families is a constitutional obligation and a necessity, progress and social justice. In Portugal, only from the April Revolution of 1974, with the legal conquest and consecration of a solid body of economic and social rights, began the way of building and guaranteeing the rights of children in their multiple dimensions and in a cross-sectional manner. The Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child was proclaimed by the United Nations on 20 September 1959, and after 20 years was celebrated the International Year of the Child. However, only on 20 November 1989 the International Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted by the United Nations, which would be ratified by Portugal the following year. All children should be guaranteed equal opportunities, the right to protection, love and affection, respect for their own identity, the right to difference and social dignity, the right to be desired, physical integrity, adequate food, clothing, housing, health, safety, education and education. These rights are inseparable from the obligation of the State to effectively comply with civil, social, economic and cultural rights as well as to assume responsibility for ensuring in practice the principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in the life of children. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in our country, despite the existence of these fundamental rights in the form of law, the daily life of thousands of children in our country is marked by denial of rights. The structural causes of poverty in Portugal have been deeply aggravated in the last four years by the way of impoverishment achieved by the PSD Government / CDS-PP. The defeat of the PSD government / CDS-PP, imposed by the struggle and translated also in the vote, opens a way of hope for today's votes and for the construction of a country where children's rights exist in law and in everyday life. [[PCP, PS, BE, Greens and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u123	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the initiative of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, Parliament is again debating bills aimed at allowing the legal possibility of adoption by couples of the same sex. The theme is not new and the position of the CDS is well known. in a week, the new left spends no time showing those who are their true priorities and those who are their only consensus: changing the parliamentary practices of 40 years, overthrowing the government, exempting the moderate rates of abortion and allowing the adoption by couples of the same sex. [[BE's protests.]] I would therefore say that we are discussing priorities for discussion. After lying down the government, these projects seem to be the little, very little, that joins the one that is the new left. [[BE's protests.]] The agenda that joins the new left is not even omitted by some of its proponents when they state, in a clear and transparent manner, that "the progress achieved in the context of marriage is only complete with the purpose of discrimination in relation to parenthood". [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u125	Human rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u126	That is what we now intend to do: to conclude an agenda quickly and without the thought that a matter like this would justify it. in this debate, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the arrogance to fall into the easy adjective of those with whom I do not agree, nor do I have the intolerance to consider that, on the one hand, are the enlightened and the intelligent and, on the other hand, the prejudices and ignorant. [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u127	To proceed in this way would be a sign of little intelligence and would certainly be a sign of manifest lack of perception of reality. in this debate, no one ignores the society in which we live, no one doesn't know the different realities and difficulties that exist and no one disputes the different worlds that each legitimately has.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u129	None of this is called into question and none of it must be called into question. What may be at stake is the recognition that adoption is not a right of one against another, it is not a right of adults and adults, but a right of children and children. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u130	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u131	Having said this, and as the CDS-PP has already said on other occasions, « something different and that should not be confused, is whether the right to adoption is a right to protect the best interests of the child or whether the centre of adoption of the child should be changed for those who wish to adopt, are of the same sex». at this point, the known doctrine of the CDS-PP is clear: the right to be adopted is a right of the child. The right to adopt is a subordinate right, a right that depends on the best interests of the child. I would therefore say that the CDS-PP has not changed, does not surprise and maintains consistency. First, the priority of the CDS is the interest of the child and not the interest of the adult. Secondly, and contrary to the assurances of some, the humility of our uncertainties must always, in doubt, prevail the right of children to the detriment of any other right or legitimate expectation. Thirdly, we cannot be those who have been the advances of the law of adoption: the effectively reduced deadlines for up to 12 months; the evaluation of candidates within a maximum of six months; the decision of social security on whether or not a child is adopted by a family in 15 days. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The doubts remain. By remaining doubts, we do not hesitate to be on the side of the best interests of the children. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u132	For an intervention, Mr. João Torres, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since this is my first speech in the Assembly of the Republic, I am very pleased to address a very special greeting to Mr President and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whenever this House approves legislation which enshrines fundamental rights, we prove that politics is capable of making the difference, we prove that politics and only politics are capable of transforming the society in which we live and making history. Finally, with a left-wing majority in this House it will be possible to take a step forward for a fairer country, for a freer country and for a more fraternal country. in the background, it will be possible to take a step forward, in favour of a more equal country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some may wonder about the fact that the law of co-ordination has been discussed not long ago, but reality has shown that some of the achievements in the field of rights, freedoms and guarantees take time to be able to make their way, sometimes and not rarely, for too long. Some may wonder about the protection of the child and the intransigent defence of its best interest, but let us not forget that there is an undeniable scientific consensus that the alleged negative effects on the education of children, so propagated by some of the conservative right-wing Members, simply, do not exist, purely and simply, are fantasy. Mr. President and Mr. Members: No one defends the best interests of the child more than the Members here today defend full adoption and than the thousands and thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese who, from now on, will be able to assume their kinship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of this bill basically aims to establish a right, but at the same time aims to defeat prejudice and hypocrisy. Homoparentity is already a reality in our country. Why can an unmarried citizen adopt individually, why can a couple of people of different sex adopt and a couple of people of the same sex not have access to exactly the same right in Portugal? Oh, my God! For the most conservative spirits, it is only by pure social and ideological prejudice. Today, one more wall, a wall of discrimination that has left behind thousands of Portuguese citizens, and with them many children for whom life, from the moment of this vote, can be infinitely better. Today, we leave behind a conservative view of our country, but we will not turn our backs on the best values of humanism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is up to each and every member of this House to decide whether it is available to be on the right side of history. It is up to each and every member of this House to decide whether it is available to make history. Some may wonder about the time and opportunity for the approval of this project, but it is never early to do justice and it was too late yesterday. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u134	Mr. João Torres, thank you very much for your words, which I pay, wishing you a good legislature. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am sure that we all, and not just some, share the deep desire that all our work here, be on the basis of good, a more human world, in accepting the difference and singular freedom of each one. To say this is quite different from trying to manipulate the truth of what we want him to come. What brings us here today is the LGBT agenda, it is the agenda of Lesbians, Gays, Bisexuals and Transsexuals. As much as we say the opposite, no, what brings us here today is not the rights of the child, it is not their best interest and it is not the improvement of legislation on the adoption or problem of institutionalized children. These problems are not on the agenda of the first priorities on the left. The left has, of course, the agenda you want, but it is good that you do not want to deceive us and that you are not ashamed of what you have chosen. What is best for children, we can all have a lot of opinions, and I fear them, but beyond the opinions, there are facts that should be remembered. They are not prejudiced, they are facts. It is born, biologically, of male and female...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u136	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u137	... and it grows and forms personality in the complementarity of these dimensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u138	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u139	Moreover, the dimensions that we demand for social life, for companies, for Parliament, establishing quotas, because it is in the complementarity of the female and male that we affirm ourselves in personality and social terms. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The Socialist Party has adopted a regrettable stance throughout this process. It began by telling us that it proposed marriage between homosexual couples but that this had to do with the freedom of the couple, which would not cover third parties or the right of adoption. Yeah, let's not forget! The alleged legal discrimination that exists today is intended to abolish, allegedly, was introduced by the hands of the Socialist Party. It has underlying this idea that some know what is good for us, that the illuminators of consciousness there will educate us, but this has a name: manipulation, manipulation of truth, the same one that leads them to repeat that it is under the primacy of the child that this legislation is presented today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u140	It's just your bench that hits!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u141	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have come back to an issue we would rather not have to go back, because we should have solved it for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we should have done so for a long time and allow me to disagree with Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia because what brings us here is three fundamental things. First of all, the law, the principle of equality, the Council of Europe recommendations, the knowledge of comparative law and of the 20 countries that, from outside the world, have been making this path solidly, without any doubt. And since the last debate, since the penultimate debate, since the penultimate debate that we have always had one more country on the right side, we have always joined those who dedicate marriage and adoption, we have one more country that makes its page in the direction of history and never, we have never had a step back in this matter, because consensus is clear. In fact, that is the second reason which brings us here, that of scientific consensus. It is an undeniable, insurmountable consensus: the Order of Psychologists, in Portugal, the various associations of American psychiatry and pediatrics, which have been studying this matter for several decades, in contexts similar to ours, as in Spain or Brazil. There is no doubt, no one has any doubts! Only those who insist on wanting to maintain prejudice in the law, in whom they insist that they do not want to recognize reality. And that's the third reason why we're here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u143	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u144	I'm done now, Mr. President. These families exist, these families are here today, with us, in this room, these families are here with us, in our country and these families wait patiently, I repeat, patiently, even with too much patience, and to them we owe respect for the patience they have had to stop the disrespect of Parliament in recent years. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] To these families, finally, today Parliament will give the serious answer, according to law, according to science and according to its aspirations for a life in happiness. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u145	You have the floor, for one speech, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The best interest of the child has been, here, the most spoken concept today. And it is precisely in defense of the best interest of the child that this project comes here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u148	This project is not little for families and children, some of whom are here, today, in these galleries, who see the rights to protection, legal recognition and, consequently, social recognition, that the law now present impresses them. The question that is put here, and what is going to be voted on here today, is precisely whether prejudice is worth more than the best interest of children. Prejudice cannot be more than the best interests of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u150	What you will vote here today and if you will decide is whether more worth an institutionalized child a whole life or a family that educates you and keeps you happy a whole life. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u151	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u152	What you are going to vote here is also the right of children to whom, at the moment, you say your father and your mother are not worth, who are not parents, are not mothers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, where is the best interest of these children?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u154	Where does the best interests of the children to whom they say that the family they do not serve, to whom they refuse the rights that they grant to all other children remain?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u156	It is for the best interests of the children, Mr. Members and Members, more than any other,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u157	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u158	I shall now conclude, Mr President. ... that we present this project and I am sure this country will be more democratic and the children will be happier when, finally, they can, all on equal terms, have the right to their family and to the legal and social recognition they owe them and that they deserve. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u159	You have the floor for further intervention by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to respond — perhaps I can say so — to some of the issues that have been raised during this debate and, more clearly, I would like to say the following: Members, particularly those who speak for the PSD and the CDS, homosexuals today can already adopt in Portugal. Are you aware of this reality? Homosexuals can already adopt, in Portugal, as long as they are individually. If it's a couple, you can't! Don't you guys find this a bit hypocritical? Oh, my God! [[P.S., BE, and P.P.P.P. Members' applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I try to put myself in your heads, but sometimes, in fact, I cannot. In other words, this is how if adoption is individual, it may be that it goes unnoticed; if it is through a couple, the thing will notice more! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are things that are not understood. Then they invoke the best interests of the child. How frank! After the speeches and the various debates that have been held here, will you have the rejection of turning to us and saying that we do not fight or take into account the best interests of the child? Oh, my God! I don't think you have, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. But now let me also tell you this: whoever defends the best interests of the child does not promote a policy, during an entire legislature, to put thousands and thousands of children into poverty. Don't do that, don't do that! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] The best interests of the child look at several prisms. But if you put a prejudice in front of the best interests of the child, you will not be able to look at the real best interests of the child. Will someone be able to say that the best interests of the child are to stay eternally institutionalized and not have a family that can welcome them, a structured family that can give them love, affection and everything the child needs to develop? Oh, my God! Is it preferable? Don't! Let us see: as long as prejudice is part of the debate, we will not be able to reach a consensus. But society, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have discussed the matter. It is always so important to discuss matters, of course! And society has shown and given a very clear signal that it no longer tolerates this prejudice regarding the restriction of adoption only to heterosexual couples, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u161	It is very easy to adjective!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u162	In fact, even your own argument—and I have already mentioned this in another debate, but I will repeat that — in some ways, it has softened in some areas. I still remember hearing someone say here: "This is nothing natural, this is against nature". And today, you will no longer have the courage to say this. Today, you say: « I have doubts, it is necessary to look at the best interests of the child». Okay, that's what we're doing! The Assembly of the Republic will now take a fundamental step towards making this society happier, fairer and better for children, but also, of course, it is more equal and less discriminatory. And that's fundamental. Our role here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also up to us to take those steps. To conclude, I just want to say the following: I have heard the PSD say that the discussion of these bills today is in some way a certain political use. And I heard the CDS say, "Look, this is a left-wing priority! ... ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, solving the problems that the country has, of course, is a priority. It's obvious! [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]] Why would we wait? Today, we have conditions to approve! Why would we wait? Oh, my God! And solving the country's problems is no political advantage, I have already said so as to priorities. Mr. Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, please take a good look: worry more about the priority of Mr. President of the Republic regarding the formation of a government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u163	You're talking about the President!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u164	... because, when a government is formed, the government due to the country needs, in this case, many other issues will come to the Assembly of the Republic, in particular on a proposal from the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Speak about the priorities to Mr. President of the Republic, which delay, delay and delay in making decisions... [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u165	As there are no more registered speakers, we will enter the voting period. First of all, let's check the quorum. I would ask the services to act on their mechanism and on the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 221 presences, to which four are added, signalled to the Bureau, of the Members. Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberaria and Mr. Pedro Pinto, PSD, Fernando Rocha Andrade, PS, and Francisco Lopes, PCP, which makes 225 Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum for deliberation. We shall then begin the voting, beginning with the vote on vote No 1 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Despite the death of Paulo Cunha and Silva, Director of Culture of the City Hall of Porto ( PS ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u166	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Paulo Cunha and Silva died. What now? That is what we wondered after the shock because it was what he always asked who was accompanying him, whom he admired, who followed him, challenging the restlessness and genius for new answers, inevitably incomplete towards new questions. Paulo Cunha Silva died unexpectedly and brutally as the Port Culture Governor. He died to reborn the culture in the city, the city he loved and made the world, where everything could happen everywhere. I wanted a complete culture for a complete city and as the country's political-cultural laboratory. He was an executioner of thought: he thought and did what he thought. Your journey is hardly reliable. Graduated in Medicine, Master and Doctor at the University of Porto, where he was Professor of Anatomy, he was also Associate Professor of Contemporary Thinking at the Faculty of Sport at the University of Porto. He was one of the main programmers of the Port 2001, and was considered one of the most relevant figures of the European Capital of Culture and appointed for Personality of the Year. He was also President of the Institute of Arts of the Ministry of Culture, Cultural Counsellor of the Embassy of Portugal in Rome, and Commissioner of an extensive programme of Guimarães 2012. He had worked with the Serralves Foundation for many years with the Gulbenkian Foundation and was Chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Portuguese Olympic Committee. He was, since 2013, Councillor of Culture of the City Hall of Porto, who said he would be a minister when the Port was a nation. Paulo Cunha and Silva was a passionate and magnetic person, full of genius, socially committed, where everything was connected on the net, in a liquid way: culture, politics, city, territory, world. He lived the last few years to make, with happiness, the happy city. his friends and admirers, associating us with the pain of his relatives, keep him alive. Paulo Cunha and Silva continue to breathe in their ideas and in their work, because the future never dies. When? Now and always. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a minute of silence after the vote on the remaining votes of regret. The vote on vote No 2 / XIII ( 1 ) will follow. ( a ) — Despite the death of the German statesman Helmut Schmidt ( PS ). The Secretary will proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u168	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The death of Helmut Schmidt, which occurred yesterday in his hometown of Hamburg, at the age of 96, deprives us of one of the greatest figures of statesman and of the political universe of German, European and world post-war. It also deprives our country of the European politician who, perhaps, has contributed more in a highly solidarity way to the creation and institutional training of our democratic rule of law. It deprives Europe of one of its most persistent and coherent builders. He was the father of the European Monetary System and a paladin of European solidarity. Helmut Schmidt is a son of Hamburg, the historic city-state that was a constituent of what Konrad Adenauer, a son of Bona, called « good Germany», which so inextricably contributed to the thought, the arts, the letters and the trade, as an activity of peaceful relations of humanity and the development of societies. Helmut Schmidt remodeled and strengthened the German social state, already the oldest in Europe. It has relaunched the German economy which, with it, has assumed European and global vanguard. Helmut Schmidt never refused to fight political and ideologically for what he considered the good causes. He fought the way Helmut Kohl brought Germany together. History will tell whether or not it has had the reason for statehood, but, of course, it has seen the social reason. He fought — here, next to Kohl — the way Angela Merkel — in fact, her admirer — has led to her European policy. In addition to his five years as minister of Willy Brandt and his eight years as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Helmut Schmidt has always had a prominent place as journalist and publicist. in the pages of Die Zeit or in the congresses of the SPD, already at an advanced age, Schmidt always fought for its ideal: to reconcile social solidarity and public and individual freedoms, which is the matrix, par excellence, of the thought and action of a «social-democrat», an expression that is the Germanic contraction of sozialistische-demokratische, what he has always been, as consistent harmony throughout his life. The Assembly of the Portuguese Republic expresses its condolences to its family and to all the people of the Federal Republic of Germany. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of filmmaker José Fonseca and Costa ( PS ), who will be read by Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u170	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last November 1, José Fonseca and Costa, one of the most expressive names of the generation of New Cinema, in the 1970s, and director of films such as Killas, the Mau da Fita ( 1981 ), No Shadow of Sin, written with Mário de Carvalho and David Mourão-Ferreira ( 1983 ), the Balada da Praia dos Dogs, an adaptation of the novel by José Cardoso Pires ( 1986 ), or Five Days, Five Nights, adaptation of Manuel Tiago's novel, pseudonym of Álvaro Cunhal ( 1996 ). José Maria Carvalheiro Fonseca and Costa was born in Caála, Angola, on June 27, 1933, where he departed in 1945 to Portugal to continue his studies. Between 1951 and 1955, he attended the law course at the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, which did not end up dedicated to the direction of the Cineclube Imagem, which was worth his first arrest by Pide, for being considered « subversive activity ». Prevented from engaging in cinema, even since a study grant requested from the National Film Fund was refused, to study cinema in the United Kingdom, and to enter the newly created RTP framework, it is set in Italy ( 1961 ), where it began its incursion into the cinema world, becoming an assistant trainee of Michelangelo Antonioni, in the L'Ecclisse long film. José Fonseca and Costa spoke with the irony of this first prison, because it was "thanks to her" that decided to engage more actively in politics. What happened to him was to be regularly monitored and arrested a second time, he returned to Portugal in 1964. He was initially known for his work as a documentary and director of advertising films on industry and tourism, but it was his course in the New Cinema movement in Portugal, of which he was one of the pioneers, who most highlighted Fonseca and Costa. However, he withdrew from the political struggle, but his first feature film The Recado, in 1971, is still marked by this course. Defender of a popular cinema, but always with the same degree of intellectual seriousness or, simply, cinematographic, with Kilas, the Mau da Fita, written with Sergio Godinho, who also composes the legendary soundtrack, has one of the greatest successes in the history of Portuguese cinema. Fonseca and Costa was one of the founding partners of the Portuguese Cinema Centre, still belonging to the Association of Film and Audiovisual Directors, the Board of Directors of Portuguese Tobis and the Council of Opinion of RTP. His course also includes the theatre, staging in 2012 The Libertino, the film critique in the magazines Image and Seara Nova, as well as the Portuguese translation of books by Sergei Eisenstein and Guido Aristarcho and novels such as Il Compagno, Cesare Pavese, and Passione di Rosa, by Alba de Cespedes. In 2014 the Portuguese Academy of Cinema distinguished him from the Career Award. His last documentary was about the city of Lisbon, The Mysteries of Lisbon, from the guide written by Fernando Pessoa in 1925 and was currently running the long film Axilas, an adaptation to a tale by Ruben da Fonseca. Fonseca and Costa, which would like to define itself as a free being" iconoclast, destroyer of temples, independent and irreverent, quite avid to groups and schools", is an undeniable landmark in the history of Portuguese cinema. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents its sincere condolences to all its family and friends."
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — regretting the death of José Vilhena ( PS ), who will be read by Mr. Secretary Abel Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u172	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Vilhena was the indisputable author of three or four decades of humor in Portugal. His work, in the tradition of Gil Vicente, Bocage or Bordalo Pinheiro, is a chronicle of the times. Vilhena, as it has always been known, will have been of the few artists in Portugal who dominated and included in his work the art of writing, drawing, illustration, photo montages in his beginnings, photography, magazine to Portuguese and even a brief incursion into cinema. Sometimes, mostly, following the path of humor written and illustrated; others, few, that of painting. Co-founder of The World Ri, in 1955, began an individual journey at the beginning of 60 with a series of comic book bags, which wrote, illustrated, edited and distributed throughout the country, almost always by tobacco companies. They are part of the collection of more than 70 books, 56 of their authorship. With some of these books censored and seized by the dictatorship of Salazar, he is arrested three times by the PIDE and several times called to answer when the books came out, which were often sold under the counter, in hiding. He was also responsible for the introduction of foreign authors such as Alphonse Allais, Alvaro de Laiglesia, Guy de Maupassant, Goscinny, Gogol, who published within his collection of the editor White and Black. Twenty days after the 1974 Revolution, the 15th Gaiola Openta magazine, which marked humorous publications in Portugal during the first years of democracy, was published in Portugal. Using various means at its disposal, such as writing, drawing, painting, photo montage, photography, etc., Vilhena releases Gaiola Open like other humorous publications that existed abroad, such as El Thursdays in Spain, Le Cannard Enchané, in France, or Mad in the USA. With the right distance, obviously not because of quality, but by means of each of these publications, because Vilhena was the man of the seven offices. José Vilhena died last October 3, a day before the elections to this House. To him, like other authors who make humor an art, we must clear the critical look on the world that surrounds us, moments of laughter or reflection on the condition that we have been in, the society in which we live, the prejudices that remove us, the anguish and ghosts that haunt us. The laughter, as Eça wrote, has always been "the oldest and most terrible form of criticism." Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to this artist and humorist, the deep regret for his death, as well as to address his family with the most sympathy”.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u173	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the vote on these motions for resolutions, we shall keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u174	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u175	To what end, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u176	Mr President, it is to inform the House and the Bureau that, on vote No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), despite the death of Helmut Schmidt, the PSD Parliamentary Group shall submit a written declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u177	Mr. Hélder Amaral is also asking for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u178	Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the vote on the vote on regret No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u179	We will now vote on a request by the PCP for discharge to the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act, setting limits on the payment of the users by the settlement of the contract in the loyalty period (12 ). the amendment to Law No 5 / 2004 of 10 February ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote for another request, submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Culture, Communication, Youth and Sport, without a vote, for a period of 30 days, of Bill No. 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the statement of Portugal's main European commitments ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u180	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u181	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u182	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u183	Does Mr André Silva ask for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u184	Yes, Mr President, that is to say that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u185	We will move on to the general vote on Bill No. 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals the laws humiliating women who resort to IVG ( Revoking of Law No 134 / 2015 of 7 September and Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September) ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Paula Teixeira da Cruz and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Member Ascension Simões.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores respect for the dignity of Portuguese women and the safeguarding of their sexual and reproductive health by repealing Law No 134 / 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015, both of 7 September ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the Members of the PSD Paula Teixeira da Cruz and Pedro Pinto and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] This diploma also falls to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 10 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) — Eliminates coercion and conditioning mechanisms on women in access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, repeals Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015, and reprises Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Paula Teixeira da Cruz and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Member Ascension Simões.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will vote on Bill No. 14 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Revoking Law No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 in order to combat illegal abortion and to respect the dignity of women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Member Paula Teixeira da Cruz and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PS Member Ascension Simões.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] This diploma also falls to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u186	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u187	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u188	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau and the House that I will present a statement of vote on the four diplomas we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u189	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 5 / XIII ( 1 ) follows. ( a ) — Basic guidelines for Portuguese foreign policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Elimination of legal impossibility of adoption by couples of the same sex ( First amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 19 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, António Rodrigues, Berta Cabral, Cristovão Norte, Crisóvão Simão Ribeiro, Firmino Pereira, Inês Domingos, Joana Barta Lopes, José Carlos Barros, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Odete Silva, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 2 abstentions (PSD deputy Duarte Filipe Marques and PS MP Isabel Oneto).]] [[On your feet, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PSD Members Paula Teixeira da Cruz and Teresa Leal Coelho.]] [[At this moment, elements of the public present in the galleries also applauded.]] I ask the people present in the galleries not to manifest themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u190	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u191	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u192	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the diploma we have just voted on and on the congenerous diplomas on the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The diploma we just voted down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminate discrimination in access to adoption, civil restraint and other family legal relations by amending Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PS ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 19 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, António Rodrigues, Berta Cabral, Cristovão Norte, Crisóvão Simão Ribeiro, Firmino Pereira, Inês Domingos, Joana Barata Lopes, José Carlos Barros, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Odete Silva, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against the PSD and CDS-PP and 5 abstentions (Deputies of PSD Ana Sofia Bettencourt and Duarte Filipe Marques, Deputy of PS Isabel Oneto and Deputy of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa and Teresa Caeiro).]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u194	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u195	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u196	Mr President, it is to inform you that I and Mrs Teresa Caeiro will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u197	Be registered. This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Enlarge families with capacity for adoption by amending Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May and Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 19 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, António Rodrigues, Berta Cabral, Cristovão Norte, Crisóvão Simão Ribeiro, Firmino Pereira, Inês Domingos, Joana Barta Lopes, José Carlos Barros, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Odete Silva, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 2 abstentions (PSD deputy Duarte Filipe Marques and PS MP Isabel Oneto).]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 28 / XIII ( 1 ) is followed. ( a ) : — Ensures equality of rights in access to adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex, making the second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 19 PSD (Ana Oliveira, Ángela Guerra, Antonio Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, António Rodrigues, Berta Cabral, Cristovão Norte, Crisóvão Simão Ribeiro, Firmino Pereira, Inês Domingos, Joana Barta Lopes, José Carlos Barros, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Odete Silva, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevedo and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 2 abstentions (PSD deputy Duarte Filipe Marques and PS MP Isabel Oneto).]] [[Upstairs, PS, BE, PCP, Greens and PAN.]] [[At this moment, elements of the public present in the galleries also applauded.]] I ask the people present in the galleries not to manifest themselves. The diploma we just voted down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Registry Code, taking into account adoption, assisted medicinal product procreation and civil sponsorship by same-sex couples (BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 15 PSD (Ana Oliveira, António Leitão Amaro, António Lima Costa, António Rodrigues, Berta Cabral, Cristóvão Norte, Crisóvão Simão Ribeiro, Firmino Pereira, Joana Barata Lopes, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Pedro Pinto, Rubina Berardo, Sergio Azevado and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 2 abstentions (PSD deputy Duarte Filipe Marques and PS Member Isabel Oneto).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u198	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u199	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u200	Mr President, it is to inform the House that, with regard to the last five diplomas we have just voted on, I and Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u201	Thank you very much. Be registered. Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u202	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on draft law No 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u203	Thank you very much. Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u204	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the five bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u206	Mr President, I use the floor for the same purpose, i.e. to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the five bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. António Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u208	Mr President, I also use the floor for the same purpose, i.e. to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the five bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u210	Mr President, I would also like to announce to the House that I will issue a statement of vote on the five bills that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u211	Mrs. Members, the bill that has just been voted down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, the Diaries of the Assembly of the Republic are under approval, 1. the series, paragraphs 105 to 111, for plenary meetings of 1, 2, 3, 8 and 22 July, 9 September and 21 October of the XII Legislation and paragraphs 1 to 5 for plenary meetings of 23 and 28 October and 9, 10 and 11 November last. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco will then report on the reports and opinions of the Committee for the Verification of Credentials of the Elected Members. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u212	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Administrative and Fiscal Court of Porto - Organic Unit 1 - Case 2807 / 06.BEPRT1, the Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Isabel Oneto ( PS ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u213	Let's vote for the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u214	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the DIAP - 2. the Section-Case 1840 / 15.1T9PRD, the Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Mrs Maria Conceição Ruão ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u215	Let's vote for the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Secretary will take note of the last report and give an opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u216	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the Possible Credentials Committee of the Elected Members, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos César ( PS ) to give written testimony, as a witness, within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u217	Let's vote for the opinion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third and last item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) - National railway plan ( The Greens) and 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national rail plan ( BE ). To present draft resolution No 3 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public knowledge, the issue of rail and conventional rail network has been a priority of the intervention of the Greens, which, like the others, has been a priority. Members will have to remember, several times and by the most diverse circumstances and forms have brought this matter back to the Assembly of the Republic. What do we consider fundamental? As is known, Portugal has a National Road Plan, and so far many policies have been pursued in order to prioritize the road network, road links. on the other hand, in the railway, what has come to be seen is a de-investment in this form of transport, in this form of mobility, and the closure of numerous railway lines and many kilometres of rail network at national level. We believe that the fact that railways are not thinking globally has contributed to many wrong decisions that have been made and that it is essential that this thought about railways be realized with numerous advantages for the country, from the outset with regard to the mobility of populations and the need for populations to find a response in rail transport for this mobility. In addition, we are also talking about a safer means of transport at land level, as many reports have shown. Such security is not of mere importance and it is a form of transport that can greatly contribute to territorial cohesion and to the fight against regional asymmetries, so let us look at the different links of the national territory by this way. On the other hand, and finally, but, in no way, with less importance, the environmental performance of rail transport itself is a key part in responding to some global challenges, particularly at the level of climate change and the need for a new paradigm on the energy component. Speaking in a paradigm, what is fundamental is a new paradigm of mobility and transport in Portugal and what The Greens want to contribute is precisely for this through the proposal to draw up a national railway plan in Portugal. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u219	To present draft resolution No 4 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) Mr Heitor de Sousa, from the initiative of BE, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents a draft resolution on the national rail network in order to raise a brief but important reflection on the urgency of restoring the theme of the National Railway Network in this House. in this regard, the XIX Government has even started the approach to this issue well: it has approved a Strategic Transport Plan, later rebaptized by PETI3 +, which set out some reference principles in the field of transport infrastructures, I would say, peaceful. It is the case of the need to promote railway links, especially goods, national and international, to change the profile of the transport of transports of persons and goods and some targeted transport policies, which, in these terms, we also defend, such as the sustainability of the operation, the promotion of modal options for the transport of people and goods more environmentally friendly and planet-friendly. It is only that, four years ago, almost nothing has been accomplished by these intentions. So, from everything that referred to the railway theme, the only thing the previous government did in concrete was the privatization of CP Cargo, which, as you know, is still to be concluded. Everything else, from railway lines to here and there, from new connections to ports or even from the rehabilitation of other lines, the balance sheet is a hand full of sand and has therefore disappeared. And the small but significant detail of the privatization of CP Cargo says everything about the true objective of the plans and proclamations of the previous Government : act systematically and consciously to deliver to the private everything that was likely to be turned into business in transport-TAP, Carris, Metro of Lisbon, STCP, Metro of Porto, CP Cargo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u221	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u222	What has not been done was not because of lack of political will, but only because of the foolish and harrowing form and even, forgive me the remark, a little incompetent with which the previous government announced hands full of measures, but that, in the end, everything was summed up to one single idea and proposal: privatize everything that moves! But the privatising fury was halfway. The PSD and the CDS had the chance to have elections through the middle and have lost them, despite all the statements to the contrary. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now, it is time to recompose the heads of the destructive fury of the previous government, to bring together wills, projects and proposals to correct past errors and minimize damage, particularly in the area of national railway. And the project that BE here brings, in a similar way to the draft resolution of The Greens, aims to recommend to the next Government to put again the theme of the rehabilitation and recovery of the rail transport of people and goods in their proper lanes. Thus, it is our understanding that the issue of rail needs a strategic and guiding approach so that, in ten years' time, the country may again have a national rail network to function and with prospects for evolution and consolidation. Since 1985 the country has already had a National Road Plan, which, regardless of its merits, has been developed and executed in a logic exclusively monomodal, without any concern of articulation and complementarity with the other modes of transport, particularly with the railway. Today, 30 years later, this House can begin to correct the previous errors in the field of multimodal transport. So our proposal is just one recommendation for the next government, in order that, already next year, and without further delay, the process of drawing up and approving a national rail plan for which a set of guidelines is recommended which are generally considered to be consensual in the means of the specialty, in fact happening the same with the draft resolution submitted by the Greens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u223	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the Greens and the Left Block on the initiatives that have been put forward, because this is a fundamental issue. In fact, it is a mobility system that gives the country and populations the quality of life, social inclusion and also the elimination of asymmetries. however, even within the transport system, we need to have increased concerns about certain issues, including the national energy balance, the whole national energy policy, but also, with regard to climate change, greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, we must not forget that, given the overall importance of the transport system, there are modes of transport which may be their preferred field of application, should be privileged, as is the case with the rail system. And why? Because the road system is responsible for much of the imbalance in our commercial balance as regards the import of fuels, but it is also responsible for the large majority — 95 % — of greenhouse gas emissions and particulate matter. Therefore, betting on rail transport is a sustainability bet, it is an energy efficiency bet, it is a competitiveness bet of our economy and the quality of life of the populations, but also a security bet. Thus, here we have to, over ten years, given that the latest strategic guidelines for the railway sector took place in 2006, adapt and evolve in the direction of change of paradigm and evolution to more sustainable ways in a second phase of infrastructure and preparation of the territory in the transport system, which has to definitely leave the wager in the road mode and must move forward more definitively to the railway mode. We cannot make mistakes from the past, and this means that this railway plan must have a sense of integration not only with the other modes of transport, but also in the sense of territorial interaction, either from the point of view of population occupation, or also in connection with the concentration of economic activity, which is asymmetric in the country. Therefore, in line with the very important content of the two draft resolutions, there are a few proposals we want to make. On the one hand, there are two stages in the approval of the national railway plan and therefore begin by adopting the strategic guidelines for the national rail system and then, after being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic and with the population communities, then, yes, move on to a second phase of approval of this plan. This has the advantage of, on the one hand, greater political and public participation in the preparation of the plan and, on the other, adapting to the legal deadlines necessary for approval of the plan. Mr President, at the end I would like to make another proposal. We know how important it is to link all the district capitals, but we also know not only the time frame that is necessary for their implementation, but also the funding that is necessary to ensure that they are implemented, which cannot be disbanded from the Community funds. Therefore, we also propose that the orientation on the connection to district capital be progressive, since it cannot be immediate, which could have a wrong interpretation of what is contained in the draft resolutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u225	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to begin by congratulating both the Green Party and the Left Block, especially the Green Party, for the coherence of the topic, because it is not indeed the first time they bring it to the debate in this House. however, I wanted to say that if, in the content, they have some approximation, as to the shape and time - it seems to me completely disproposed. And I'll say why. It is true that for many decades we have had the bet on concrete, that is true, and that, in fact, the railway has an ecological footprint of the best, compared to other transport models. That's true. But it is also true that the previous government has done everything well in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u227	Excuse me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u228	And what did you do? In addition to the Strategic Transport Plan, it later made PETI3 + ( Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan ). And this one was achieved how? It was achieved through broad consensus, with all stakeholders, with all the people and institutions concerned and even with parliamentary groups. In addition, the Left Block had the opportunity to meet in the Ministry of Economics and to say what it thought and what it intended should be a strategic infrastructure plan that objectively reinforced the railway component very much, namely the connection to ports and the strengthening of some strategic lines. But I did more than that: I did it in a sustainable and balanced way. For this reason, 30 projects were selected, consensually, with a sustainable budget, i.e. about 5000 million that had to do with the Community Framework 2014 - 2020. Therefore, it seems unfair to me to say that nothing has been done, when the plan that deserved the agreement of both parliamentary boards and of all stakeholders previewed 30 projects for 2014 - 2020. It seems to me that this is the rational way, i.e. not to do the crazy things of the past. And now I'm in shape. We actually had a national road plan. It is necessary to have a sustainable and weighted national railway plan, because—it does not go the devil weave—we can have another socialist government, with a minister and a volunteer state secretary who resolve to do the entire national railway plan in a legislature, as happened with the national road plan, when the public debt was already about 100 % and became what we know today as the familiar PPPs, with the invoice they bring to public accounting. This is because, let's remember, it was eight subconcessions made between 2008 and 2010 to pay in 2014 and that disbalanced the model. So we don't want to make that mistake. In addition, as has already been said, we must have an integrated view of all modes of transport: rail, air, maritime and passenger modes. That must be the vision, and that is the modern vision. This is to say that, as far as time goes, I don't understand either. Unless the Ecologist Party « The Greens » and the Left Block, having failed to put this matter into such agreement of the losing parties who now want to be government, now come through the « window» attempt to condition the Socialist Party by presenting a draft resolution that recommends to the Socialist Party what they have not been able to put into the agreement. That is a matter I don't know, it's a path that you chose with the friends you wanted to choose. I don't like the way or the friends and therefore you understand, because on our part you won't deserve any agreement. But it's too bad. We can discuss these issues in an integrated and sustainable way for the national economy, which, in addition to everything else, is fundamental to changing the transport paradigm, placing on a sustainable rail, both economically and environmentally. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u229	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As the PCP has always underlined, railway is a strategic tool for development, territorial cohesion and quality of life. As a structure of the territory, the railway must be thought of as a whole, truly on the net, in a strategic planning perspective and in a perspective of progress and development both in its size and in its quality, serving the populations, productive sectors, economic activity centers. On the other hand, and no less important, if it is true that the link between modes of transport is crucial and indispensable, it is no less true that the railway has to be considered as such, as a railway network, as a coherent and integrated railway system, but with its specificity, not as a poor relative of an amalgam of infrastructures managed in a logic of PPP and selling to parts, as we have been watching over these years. on the contrary, what is fundamental and indisputable is the reunification of the railway, inverting this path of fragmentation, ending these aberrations, either the merger EP / REFER, either the evil called Strategic Plan of Transport, then rebaptized PETI3 +, which the PSD / CDS-PP government approved in the previous legislature to close lines and services, because that was what happened. As stated in the plenary of the railway workers of the last day 3, in front of the Assembly, the elections of 4 October ended a period in which the policy on the destruction of the railway was accentuated, from the start by the brutal increase in tariffs and the reduction of services which removed 21 million passengers, less than 17 % in four years, from the railway. We would like to welcome the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party with the agenda of this debate and with the presentation of this proposal to draw up a national railway plan, which BE has also seconded and proposed; we value the concrete proposals and guidelines; we also highlight the question of railway links to district capitals, all district capitals; and we draw attention to the importance of the alerts and proposals that industry workers have presented to parliamentary groups, dealing with issues ranging from the aforementioned EP / REFER merger to the process of privatization of CP Load or the situation of EMEF, going through the central problem of the rights, wages and working conditions of the railways, including the right to transport. We therefore agree and frame this proposal for a national rail plan to defend the development of a national transport plan worthy of that name, based on a rail system such as its backbone and taking into account the interests of the integrated development of the country, the real needs of the economy and the mobility needs of the populations throughout the national territory. We just want to safeguard the obvious so that it is said and not only implied. It is that these important and fair recommendations are addressed to a legitimate and full-fledged government that the country must have on the will of the people and the majority and not to this resigned and in management that the President of the Republic keeps going through the lanes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is an urgent need for another policy for the rail sector and for the transport sector in general. The demand for change expressed by the population has to have real and concrete consequences and for this change can count on the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u231	For an intervention, Mrs Odete Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fantasy time ended in 2011 in a financial emergency framework that placed us at the mercy of international creditors and their demands, imposing a paradigm shift on the country and the government. The PSD/CDS coalition government started pragmatically the restructuring of the transport sector, adopting two lucid and relevant transport instruments, in particular the Strategic Transport Plan for the horizon 2011 - 2015 and subsequently the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan 2014 - 2020. We must have an integrated view, a global view, and transport must be complementary to each other in order to ensure the mobility of people and goods in Portugal and Portugal outside the country. This is what happens to the Strategic Transport Plan, which responds to these three vectors which guarantee mobility, social and territorial cohesion and, above all, do not forget the financial sustainability of the rail sector. Today, what is required are no longer diagnoses, no more studies. We've been studying and diagnosing for decades. The Strategic Transport Plan is no longer a diagnosis. PET is a path to follow, a path to be followed in the infrastructure and transport sector. It is a Plan where conscious options are present that the public resources made available by Portuguese taxpayers are limited. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, analysing the recitals of the draft resolutions we are discussing today, we conclude that they confuse causes and effects and show the disengagement of the existing framework; they emerge from a non-distant reality and from an external financial aid framework from which we have not yet been released; so little mention is made of the facts and reasons why the transport sector has reached a level of pre-rupture that the very cost has been interrupted. The Greens Ecological Party and the Left Block again point us to an inconsequent and unconscious practice,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u233	... unlocking the reality of facts, scarce resources and the need to make choices. They offer us a return to the past, in the time of the disillusionment of the grand plans. The imagination was fertile, the loss of contact with reality was easy, the mistakes were many, and the damage was for the citizens. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion and in good rigour, the problem is not in the drawing up of plans but in the unrealisticity of those who propose them. Portugal, fortunately, has plans that are being implemented today. The results are obvious and unquestionable. In 2014, the transport sector that was in pre-collapse closed with positive operational results, thus initiating a path of rationality and self-sustainability that serves, and serves well, the Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u234	For a new intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the issue that Mr Hélder Amaral spoke about, that of the integrated view of the national transport plan, perhaps making a parallelism here, I would like to say that the fact that there is a national waste plan does not mean that there is no national plan for solid urban waste, a national plan for industrial waste, a national plan for hospital waste, and so on. The same is true of planning, let us say, of the transport sector. It is clear that an integrated vision is very important and we do not disengage ourselves from it, as it has certainly verified by reading our draft resolution, but we consider it important that there is a priority in a look, which has never been done in this way on rail transport, not torn from others, of course not. The development of a plan would lead to a focused vision of the potentialities that that mode of transport has to value the development of the country, in particular to benefit people and the environment in the country. Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino, as I understood from her speech, there were two proposals which, I believe, The Greens are in a position to respond. One, it had to do with the question of connecting to district capitals to be progressive. We have no problem adopting that expression in our draft resolution. The other was that the plan was made in two phases, that is, first in the definition of strategic guidelines, a strong public discussion and the specialized entities and then move on to the implementation of the plan. We do not have a problem with this development either. Perhaps setting out a certain deadline for strategic orientation and then certainly an effective deadline for drawing up the plan. I believe that there have been constructive proposals that we are in a position to take care of. Mr President, I think this has been a good contribution the Greens have made to Parliament. [[Applause from The Greens and the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u236	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, I will finish by assessing draft resolutions Nos 3 and 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a). The Secretary, Mrs Emília Santos, will take note of the initiatives which have now entered the Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u237	Mr President, I would like to inform the House that they have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 11 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue a comprehensive integrated administrative modernization policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government cancel the sub-concession of the transport systems of the Lisboa Railway Company, SA ( Carris, SA ) and the Lisbon Metropolitan, EPE ( ML, EPE ) ( PS ), 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revoke and reverse the sub-concessions of the transport systems of the Port Metro, SA, and the Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port, SA ( PS ), 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a social development programme ( PSD / CDS-PP ). They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 36 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensure the access of all women to assisted drug procreation ( LDCs) and regulates access to replacement pregnancy by making the second amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July as amended by Law No 59 / 2007 of 4 September ( BE ), 37 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Elimination of national examinations of 1. the basic education cycle ( BE), 38 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeal of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and competences — PACC(BE), 39 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establishs the mechanisms for temporary remuneration reductions and the conditions for their reversal by making the first amendment to Law No 75 / 2014 of 12 September ( PSD / CDS-PP ), 40 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application of the extraordinary solidarity contribution during 2016 ( PSD / CDS-PP ), and 41 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — regulates the application in 2016 of tax matters contained in the law which approved the State budget for 2015 ( PSD / CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-20.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place on Wednesday, 25 November. It will therefore form part of our agenda for a period of political declarations and also the assessment of petition No 246 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Submitted by José Borges Araújo Moura Soeiro, and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic to increase the national minimum wage — a question of justice and human rights, and the assessment of petition No 430 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Submitted by Maria do Céu Albuquerque, and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures in favour of not disqualification/extinction of the courts of the Middle Tejo. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for today, that is all. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 24 minutes.]]
