ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the meeting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, this meeting of the Standing Committee — as we know, consists of a small number of Members with regard to the plenary — has as its agenda the vote on opinions of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication which still fall within the competence of this Parliament, which has led us to meet this requirement. I therefore give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to report on three reports and their opinions from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first report refers to the suspension of the mandate of Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt ( PSD ) ( elected by the Lisbon electoral circle ) under Article 4(1) ( c ). the, in conjunction with Article 20 ( 1 ( h ). the Statute of Deputies, being replaced by Mrs Hermínia Maria da Fonseca Bexiga Azenha, with effect from 5 October 2015. The opinion is in the sense of suspension and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second report refers to a request from the Single Section of the DIAP of Vila do Conde, Comarca do Porto, Case No 214 / 14.6TAPVZ, for Mr Afonso Oliveira ( PSD ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car, having the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication delivered an opinion to authorize.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Commission's latest report on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication concerns Case 1 / 13.9YGLSB.S2, 5. the Section of the Supreme Court, and it is in the sense that Mrs Luísa Salgueiro ( PS ) intervenes within the framework of those cases, and the Commission gives its opinion in order to authorise them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u8	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u9	You have the floor, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u10	Madam President, at this last moment when we are with you as President of the Assembly of the Republic, with me as leader of the PS Parliamentary Group and with other Members as representatives of the other banks, I would like to remind you of our full esteem — I think I can speak on behalf of the Socialist Party — of all our consideration and of the recognition for the work you have done as President of the Assembly of the Republic in the past four years, in defence of the Assembly of the Republic, at very difficult times. The President is a person with a degree of humanism, sensitivity and competence above the common. I would like to make it very clear that we are leaving here — at least I am leaving — with much more friendship and admiration for you than I already had and I wanted to wish you the greatest happiness in the future. [[PS, PSD, CDS-PP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u11	Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, after Mr. Ladies and gentlemen who have also asked for the floor, I will have the opportunity to thank you for the words you have spoken to me. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like, on behalf of the PSD bench, to greet in general all colleagues who will cease their duties, given the start of the new Assembly of the Republic as a result of the last legislative elections. Turning to all those who have shared with us the work of this Parliament, however, I cannot fail to put first, in terms of recognition and gratitude for the service which has been provided, the performance of the President while he chaired this Assembly of the Republic and while he represented not only all Members but also the political will of the Portuguese people, which is expressed in the representatives elected to the Assembly of the Republic. Madam President, we are proud that these words are addressed to someone who has left this bench, who has been elected to the last Parliament in the PSD lists, but this pride is also linked to the free and impartial manner as he has exercised his office and to the circumstance of often forgetting that it was the origin of his election as President of Parliament. In fact, it was a proposal from the PSD Parliamentary Group, of which I was the first subscriber, and it is with pride that, having completed these four years and a few months of work, we can say that Dr. Assumption Esteves has exercised with high competence the functions of President of Parliament, combining several features, some of which have already been mentioned but which I want to strengthen, which add legal knowledge clearly above the average, which is also relevant for the exercise of this function, and a great capacity to independently accept the various sensitivities and lines of argument which, in a very proper way, the political parties express, either at plenary meetings or on other occasions, particularly at the Conference of Leaders. It was a President who greatly dignified the parliamentary function, it was the first woman to perform this function in Portugal and it was also someone who designed the characteristics that I have listed recently, of competence, of serious knowledge, of culture, far beyond the four walls of Parliament, in a very significant way with the community of our country and from which it resides outside the national territory, with a very relevant intervention, at some times, at the European level and at the global level. That is why, Mr President, on this occasion, it is not only our duty but above all our pleasure and it is our pleasure to be able to dedicate these words to you, invoking, too, pardon me for the other parliamentary groups, Vice-President Guilherme Silva, who, after several decades of parliamentary exercise, is also a believer of our admiration and very positive words of appreciation for the way in which he has always performed his duties. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u13	It is with great honour that I take the privilege of, on behalf of the largest parliamentary bench in this legislature and also, now, of the next Parliament... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u14	...to leave a public note of gratitude, of recognition, of gratitude, valuing, as the President has been able to do, democracy, the principles underlying the exercise of the parliamentary mission. In a word, Madam President : thank you very much! [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u15	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would also like to associate myself with the words given by Mr Ferro Rodrigues either by Mr Luís Montenegro and point out that this was a legislation of a difficulty, if not only, clearly exceptional. It was a legislature that began with limited sovereignty, with a union of creditors to be able to dictate the approval or not of laws, with a Memorandum of Understanding, which, having not been this majority signing or negotiating, imposed very difficult sacrifices and which caused the natural social seizures and not so natural verbal violence unusual and never seen in Parliament, that the President always knew how to obvious. Mr President, in summarizing what this mandate was, I want to tell you that what we most value, in addition to what has been said, was talent, competence, culture and, I would say, imagination in difficulties, is the fact that, as Mr President often told us, there is no kind of precedent in the face of a problem, because everything was new, because there was no precedent and, at least we lawyers, we sought to know how it was decided, as it was understood, what happened in similar cases. Mr President, in order to use a legal language—which is, moreover, essential, or at least important from the point of view of the exercise of office—was constantly integrating gaps and, always with a smile on the lips, complained many times at the Leader Conferences, saying: 'Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know how my predecessors decided, but there are no similar cases, there is an absolutely insufficient gap to be filled with these precedents. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, I believe that this competence, that good sense, that intelligence, that ability to unite in disagreement, that were very strong and vehement in this Parliament, are a legacy and above all a responsibility that leaves everyone, the Members of this Parliament and those who will be Members next. Finally, I wanted to point out a fair recognition. As President of the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, our country and Parliament have, and very much, been the first President to draw attention to the tragic problem of migration among their European counterparts. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It was his credit, only his, personally and that he honours us all by convening a meeting so that we can discuss this issue long before he appears on the media agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u18	Mr President, on behalf of the CDS, I would like to take account of our gratitude, our recognition and, above all, our hope and conviction that we can be able to cope with the resolution of that problem. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u19	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, at the end of the legislature, I would also like to congratulate the President and wish her personal happiness, as well as, in the person of the President, to wish happiness to all Members who will cease their duties. It is obvious that the perspective we have placed before us for the past four years is diametrically opposed to that expressed here by Mr Nuno Magalhães in his previous speech. But I believe that it is true that these four years have been of great necessity, of great difficulty, because they were years of great difficulty for most Portuguese people, hit hard by measures that have often left the Assembly of the Republic. And if it is true that the various parliamentary groups, in view of these measures, had the opportunity to express their opinion, consistent or inconsistent with what was going to be done, it is no less true that all these difficulties and the hardness of the measures ended up also reflecting on the very functioning of Parliament and on the requirements it placed in the direction of parliamentary sessions. And of course this framework of difficulties and demands had to be overcome by the President. I would therefore like to leave the record of how the President faced all these difficulties and obstacles that have been posed as a result of the development of our national political life and, above all, to record the honesty and frontality with which it was possible, also with the President, to express our positions and to feel that they were accepted, even though then, in the final composition of the decisions, the very framework of the expression and the positions of each parliamentary group would not cease to be felt. Madam President, I leave this record and, once again, I want to wish you vows of personal happiness for the future. [[PCP, PSD, CDS-PP and Greens applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u21	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this Parliament I do not hide that it is with any satisfaction that I make this speech, since this is the last day of this cycle that was negative to the country. This intervention could dominate this feeling, because we do not forget that these four years have been very difficult the days lived in the Republic, but we do not forget that those days are coming to an end, and from there our satisfaction. But these last four years, we don't just take the bad stuff. We must learn every day that passes, we must have the ability to, even when we disagree, to realize that disagreement can do us better. I believe that it is this confrontation of views that we have often had that I have had the relationship that the Left Block Parliamentary Group has had with the President and now with all the Members and Members who cease to serve, i.e. with those who will no longer be part of the Assembly of the Republic. It is in this debate that our arguments are taken to the extreme and our rationality is called into question, but it is also when we find in front good arguments that we are able to overcome, improve, and that is also part of the republican spirit that has built our Republic. I do not hide that this bitterness of knowing that these good moments stayed behind is overcome by knowing that the bad moments also stayed behind and that a new cycle opens up in Portugal — not without difficulties and not without demands, of course, but knowing that we will no longer have an absolute majority of the PSD and the CDS that will rule as never this Assembly of the Republic. I believe that is a cause of great satisfaction. I shall end by insisting on the compliance of the President, as the first among the peers, all the Members and all the members of the Bureau. I am aware that everyone, in their own way, has contributed to the Republic, and that is what is required of us. I finish by saying that, in my opinion, among these pairs, there are some imparas. It is those with whom I could most closely deprive, the Members of my parliamentary bench, and who have helped me greatly to know what I know today, to take the steps I have taken so far. I owe them a lot, just as the Republic owes them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u23	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, I would not like to make a deeply negative balance, which I also do — it is no surprise to anyone — of the legislation that ends, but to express the expectation or hope of a better future, with a border on the passage of this legislation to the next. I would like to address, on behalf of my Parliamentary Group, and even on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, an enormous greeting to the President, who was in fact the first woman to serve as President of the Assembly of the Republic. It must also be said that we have not always agreed at all times, but Parliament is also doing so, of divergent opinions, of different opinions, but always in search of solutions. And it was here that I wanted to say that the President of the Assembly of the Republic was extraordinarily pragmatic — and this is perhaps a very feminine characteristic — in the search for solutions and in the relationship with people. This was something I would like to stress. Perhaps this pragmatism has also led her to have a huge concern to take Parliament beyond the walls of the Palace of St. Benedict and make reality and society enter the gates. I think it made a big difference there, because it promoted a dynamic that has not yet existed. I also greet her for that and certainly for much more than it is here to say. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u25	The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality also took the floor. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, I would like to associate myself with the compliments which the banks have addressed to the President at this last meeting to which he presides and I would like to say that, on my behalf and on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank the exemplary form of institutional relations between the Government and Parliament through the President, which I also welcome from the whole Bureau. Mr President, this mandate is marked by its presence, brightness, intelligence and effort. It was for us, not only for me but for many others, as we have seen here, an honor and a pleasure to have you as President of Parliament and the fact that you were the first woman to preside over the Assembly of the Republic. I stress, Madam President, that your mandate is marked by the openness of Parliament to the community, but also by an originality and difference that are absolutely unforgettable. Finally, I would also like to stress that, from my point of view, Mr President's speeches are truly an anthology of what has been said and written in Portuguese democracy in the field of human rights. Thank you very much, Madam President. I wish you were happy. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-10-21.u27	Mrs. Deputies Ferro Rodrigues, Luís Montenegro, Nuno Magalhães, João Oliveira, Pedro Filipe Soares, Heloísa Apollonia and Mrs. Secretary of State, I was a little surprised at this formal farewell, since in many ways we have already started saying goodbye. Borges has a poem of love in which, to express very intense feelings, he uses a few words that I will repeat: "What is worth the vague erudition when it is so difficult to express what he feels? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I would say: of what value is the "waver erudition" at this moment, which, to me, has a value greater than the value of the moment I was elected? This moment is already the balance of the protagonist that here, together with you, I have been developing. And that balance was truly, to me, the most important. I will never cease to be political and to be political. Politics is love for the world and I feel an immense love for the world, I feel an immense love for Parliament, I feel an immense love for democracy, I feel that politics is the place where we cryfully play our existence. If we alienate, we alienate; if we release, we release. And that is why I will never leave politics, because it is the way that makes sense to us. It is between Parliament and the neighborhood that we find the ability to be, the ability to do, the way to be. at this moment, I do not fail to thank the PSD for the opportunity it has given me to arrive at the President of the Assembly of the Republic, from where I come from and to which I return. I want to give everyone a huge hug and also say that your words today have marked me. I can even say that the greatest honor of my life was to preside over Parliament, as I said on the first day. I remember quoting a metaphor of Cervantes in Dom Quixote, trying to show that the place was not the point of arrival but the point of departure, that the place is built every day as Sancho's good sense showed Dom Quixote. I tried to carry with me a mixture of the two: the pragmatism of the Sancho and the idealism of the Quixote, and I must say that I didn't get hurt with it. It is a time when our resistance, sometimes, asks us to rest a little, not to give up, not to stop being attentive and not to stop acting. I love politics, because I love the world. I have loved Parliament and I must say that I feel here, in a way, a state of soul that gives me an idea of, in order to reach this day, having worth having been born, to know how, at this time, I feel the soul filled, admitting my mistakes, my shortcomings, but already fulfilling the wish that the Secretary of State in such a generous way, has made here. I already feel happy and will continue to be happy to help you, to be present every day, not to leave Parliament either in memory or in physical presence. I wish all the best and leave here a boundless gratitude. See you soon. [[General applause, having PSD, PS and CDS-PP applauded standing.]] The meeting is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 33 minutes.]]
