ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, I ask the Secretary to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u2	Approves the regime of supervision of the Assembly of the Republic on the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and sets the limits on the operation of the Services which integrate it ( Sixth Amendment to Law No 30 / 84 of 5 September ) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 141 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Decree-Law No 92 / 2015 of 29 May establishing a multi-municipal water and sanitation system of the Portuguese Coastal Centre ( PCP ), 142 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 93 / 2015 of 29 May establishing a multi-municipal water and sanitation system in northern Portugal ( PCP ), 143 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 94 / 2015 of 29 May establishing a multi-municipal water and sanitation system in Lisbon and Tejo Valley ( PCP ), 144 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 101 -A / 2015 of 4 June approving an extraordinary mechanism of exchange correction to the remuneration and bonuses of career workers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in functions in external peripheral services as well as workers of the Agency for the Investment and Foreign Trade of Portugal, EPE, and Tourism of Portugal, IP, who exercise functions in the functional dependence of the heads of diplomatic mission ( PCP ) and 145 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 80 / 2015 of 14 May approving the revision of the Legal Regime of Territorial Management Instruments ( RJIGT ), as approved by Decree-Law No 380 / 99 of 22 September ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u3	Mrs. Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on our agenda, form part of a legislative agenda required by the Block on the Left, under Article 64. Regulation, paragraph 3 ( a ), for the general assessment of draft law No 994 / XII ( 4 ). (a) — Social emergency law. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members who will vote on this diploma at the end of the debate. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats and keep quiet. There is a background noise in the Chamber and, as we are going to start the speeches, we have to listen to the speakers. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « People's lives are not better, but the country is much better». The expression by Mr Luís Montenegro well represents the line that has been followed by the Government in these four years. People's lives are the least of the concerns of a government that behaves as if people eat interest at breakfast. Besides, you don't even realize how much the country can be better if people are worse. A country is its people, flesh and bone people who live there and not an abstract entity. It is true that, thanks to government policies, the country has fewer and fewer people. Christmas fell peaks, fell more in the first three years of most right than in the previous decade, and the closed doors to a whole generation took hundreds of thousands to look for the future in another country. The numbers are revealing. Since the end of 2010 the wealth produced in Portugal has decreased by EUR 10 billion. There are fewer than 457 000 employees and many of them are unable to escape poverty. The average salary of the new contracts since the end of 2013 is € 581 gross. After the discounts, little stays above 500 €. And, I repeat, this is the average value of all wages in Portugal in recent years. And it is in this scenario, where 9 in every 10 jobs created are precarious and wages are increasingly shorter, that the Prime Minister regrets not to have reduced the costs of work. More? Oh, my God! 581 €, before discounts, is it still to live above our possibilities? When are you happy? Not content with wage devaluation, the policies followed by the government have further increased social inequality and worsened situations of extreme poverty. In 2010, labour income represented 47, 2 % of national wealth ; in 2014, this value represented 43, 8 %. For 27 years, the gap between labour and capital income was not so grotesque. at the beginning of the century, IRC represented 40 % of indirect tax revenues and IRS 60 %. Today, the profits of companies are only about 25 % of that total and workers bear 75 % of the tax burden. No government, like the so-called « taxpayer's friends », has done so much to put workers and families to be the miner of the state. We can look at the numbers and say that's it, numbers. But each percentage point of this increase in tax burden and the increase in inequality induced by the massive transfer of labour resources to capital, which is the real structural reform of this government, affects the lives of thousands of people. Whole families who are forced to choose between food and the medication absolutely necessary, to cut into fruit and vegetables and primary health care. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, poverty rates have increased, and have greatly increased, in these four years, and the right has been able to do the unthinkable: it has decreased social support, via RSI (social income of insertion) and CSI (sympathetic complement for the elderly), to which it is proven to have less. There are currently fewer than 160 000 people receiving the RSI and its average value has fallen €78. The reduction has greatly affected children. an average value of 94 € for each minor, the right "family friend" cut support for the most disadvantaged children to 53 €. Repeat : 53 €! With friends of these, it is appropriate to say that no one needs to worry about who wants it wrong. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But we already know the answer from the right, of so swindling and demagogic that it is. The RSI budget has fallen to almost half and there are fewer people covered by the support to whom it already has nothing because there is now rigour in the implementation of this policy. Nothing more false! The RSI, even by the dumpless demagogy that the CDS has always reserved for it, has always been the most monitored and monitored public money. It had the government half of the zeal to control the poorest in tax losses or benefits that it will grant to large companies and we would all be much better. Now to say that they regret the brutal cuts that have affected social policies, but there was no other alternative in the context of tight accounts, nor is it worth it. And it's not worth it because it's not true! The accounts have been made and are absolutely revealing. Paying for a family of four people in the social canteens, which Minister Pedro Mota Soares usually presents as the alpha and omega of the social concern of the government, costs 600 € per month. The maximum RSI value for this family is 380 euros, and not only supports food but all its expenses. What we have, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a policy of social persecution for the most disadvantaged and the attempt to make poverty a business. We no longer have a Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security to have an IPSS minister. It is an assistanceist vision, which argues that the poor should not be supported monetaryly in order to live in autonomy and contrasts with the humiliation of gender pay. For this right, the poor, you know, have no competence to decide where to spend their money. And as the government is dismantling public policies and social transfers that have allowed the risk of poverty to be reduced to half, a business of hundreds of millions is growing. Millions who are poorly controlled, of which their results and real impact are unknown. Tottons for those most in need, millions for those who live from the destructive zeal of the state, here is the policy of the right in all its splendor. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not believe, contrary to what Mr Luís Montenegro says, that it is possible for a country to be better if its citizens are worse. We do not agree with the increase in the number of the poor. Anchored on the 2009 values, the poverty rate is currently in the 25, 9%, an increase of eight points. One in four Portuguese is below the poverty line. No country that takes itself seriously can cross its arms in front of this overwhelming reality. The Left Block therefore proposes a series of measures to combat poverty, support those who have the least and have been left behind. We have 700 000 unemployed and unemployed without any support. We therefore defend the reduction in the guarantee period so that we can access the unemployment allowance from 365 days to 180 days and the social unemployment allowance from 180 days to 90 days. To reverse a wage policy that no longer responds to people's needs and living conditions, we defend the immediate, urgent increase of the national minimum wage to €545. in the same sense, VAT for products of first necessity must return to the minimum rate, including energy. We understand that essential goods, such as access to light, electricity or natural gas, should never be cut down on issues of economic deficiency and we suspend income updates under the supported income regime — protecting housing, protecting housing with light, water, gas. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we bring you here is a challenge and a compromise. The challenge of responding to the social crisis, of looking at the tragedy of those who are unemployed and without support, of those who cannot afford the light and the house. Answer and not ignore suffering! Answer and no longer abandon the victims of the crisis! Answer and no longer invent bad excuses about the money that is missing! When a bank collapses, the money shows up. For BES, on a August night, EUR 4900 million appeared public. Others so often showed up so much. And it always appears because, they tell us, it is the only way to avoid the giant systemic risk that the collapse of a bank can provoke. So when do the families collapse? The children? The elderly? When do you collapse who lost everything with the crisis? Can we not respond to the enormous systemic risk that poverty represents in our country? Oh, my God! Tell Mr. Prime Minister what you say, the truth is that no story ends well if people stay behind. The challenge that the Left Block here presents to you is to respond now to who has lost everything. The commitment is not to give up the country, not to give up people, not to allow the terraplanning of the most basic rights and living conditions. This is the commitment that the country needs and is for which we call you: to respond to people, in the name of dignity and in the name of human rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u5	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member will therefore inform the Bureau of his reply together or alone. First of all, Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u6	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Socialist Party takes the initiative of the Left Block and it is good to say that the Socialist Party accompanies the one who is the diagnosis made by the Left Block with regard to the nefarious set of measures that, during these four years, the right government has taken, which have increased poverty and inequality, which have imposed austerity that has been beyond the troika. However, it must also be said that some of the measures and proposals presented by the Left Block here are not consistent with the diagnosis it makes. This reminds us of a famous phrase, according to which the original ideas are not good and the good ideas are not original. This initiative of the Left Block, with regard to the idea of the State to prohibit companies from charging their credits, I know that it is a childish impulse for'syrization', because this today has no framework anywhere in the world. The Socialist Party defends social rights, defends the protection of people when they are vulnerable, but does not impose the State on companies, so that they cannot charge their claims in the event of non-compliance. however, it is also good to say that the good ideas that the Left Block here revealed are not original, most of them have the brand of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u7	It's true! [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u8	I will give two examples, the first of which is the increase in the national minimum wage. The Socialist Party was the party which, in the Government, made more increases in the national minimum wage in social consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Second example: replacement of family allowance. Who was the champion of family allowance increases? The Socialist Party! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Mrs Catarina Martins, I will remind you that about two years ago Mr Luís Fazenda, who is here, gave a press conference, where he said: « The Left Block will present an initiative in Parliament only and exclusively to restore social protection levels in the Socialist Party's time ».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u9	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u10	An initiative of the Left Block, only and exclusively to restore the social support of the Socialist Party's time! This is extraordinary and very important to be remembered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u11	Now, take it seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u12	It wasn't a big improvement!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u13	Then I told Mrs. Deputy that the Left Block was not consistent, and that's true. Let me give you an example. In its diagnosis, it says that the CIS, with this government, saw a decrease of 70,000 beneficiaries. And, Madam Member, what does the Left Block propose, in this regard, on this initiative? Strictly nothing! As for the 70 000 elderly, beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, who have been reduced with this government, the Left Block does not propose anything. That is why I call on and invite the Left Block to accompany the Socialist Party in the set of measures and proposals it presents in its electoral programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u14	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u15	And I would like to remind you, by calling on the honourable Member to know whether the Left Block is available to accompany the Socialist Party in this set of measures. I give you the three fundamental measures: an exclusive programme to combat the poverty of children and young people, because, as you know, this government has abandoned the policy for children, especially at the level of institutionalised children, and in this the Socialist Party is very clear; the replacement of the CIS and the RSI, which has also been reduced by this Government ; the increase in wage supplement for those who do not receive the minimum wage. So what I ask you to conclude is the following: is the Left Block available and called for a joint path with the Socialist Party, so that these measures and proposals are implemented and with them we can reduce social inequality in Portugal, which has been aggravated, and much, with the policies of this government? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u16	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u17	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, I thank you for your question. You know what doesn't help? It is the Socialist Party that understands that, when the Left Block responds to the social emergency, it is attacking the Socialist Party. When the Left Block is making proposals to respond to the social emergency it is responding to the social emergency. The Socialist Party, perhaps, feels attacked because it knows that it cut the family allowance to half a million children... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u18	... and we intend to restore the family allowance; perhaps, he feels attacked because he did the Decree-Law No. 70 / 2010, which cut social benefits at all ages, to people who most needed support in a cross-sectional way; perhaps the Socialist Party feels attacked because he knows that in 2011 and to the wake of what had been agreed in the social consultation, he frozen the national minimum wage. But, you know, Mr President, I do not want to have this debate with you, because I am interested in knowing whether we have the responsibility to respond to the social emergency ahead of us. And today, I call you to vote that everyone can have unemployment allowance and no one is abandoned, that when a family has nothing, don't be without light, no water and no home, that a family doesn't lose the roof, when it's all gone. That is why we are calling the Socialist Party today. That the Socialist Party considers this an attack is perhaps revealing that it has already introduced in itself so much of the discourse on the right that it has already forgotten the achievements it has made in the past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u19	To request clarification, Mr. João Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u20	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I was listening to her carefully and reminded me that she was in an election campaign in Greece with Syriza. And I thought: has the honourable Member been invited to make an intervention in the Athens Parliament? Oh, my God! Is the bill presented today or not a part of Syriza's electoral program? Oh, my God! [[Well remembered!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u21	And tell me one thing: has it been implemented or not? We know that we don't and we know why! [[BE's protests.]] Well, history also tells us that "the sun in the air and rain in the nabal" is not possible. And it is not possible, for a simple reason: being in the euro and not meeting the rules of the euro is not possible. And there we see the sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u22	Only the Greeks! Only the Greeks, only the Syriza!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u23	But, Mrs. Member, no one hides that the Portuguese have lived in difficult times. With his efforts, with his dedication and, we also recognize, with his suffering, we were able to take the Country out of the mud to where socialist governance had sent it. Portugal, through this government, had sensitivity, sense of state, sense of responsibility for implementing a social emergency programme, while acting in accordance with what is expected of a social emergency plan, i.e. first what is important and then what is urgent. And what was important? It was important to take Portugal out of the shelter, it was important to gain freedom of action and decision-making, and it was urgent not to leave anyone behind,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u24	...at the same time as we put the economy growing, the unemployment falling and the investment increasing. All supported in a social dialogue, committed and constructive. Madam Member, tell us whether or not we recognize the efforts of the Portuguese and these positive indicators. Then I want to tell you the following: they called this bill a social emergency project, but everything promises and nothing says about how it is financed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u25	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u26	Mr. Member, or it is confirmed that there is oil in the Blessed, and they have only warned the Left Block, or, then, you have to tell us where they're going to get the money. It is important to be serious in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u28	I would like to tell you that austerity has not been an option for this government, Madam Member — we must pay attention to this! — austerity was an inevitability, because of the unfortunate inheritance we received. But austerity means greater rigour and control over expenditure. Rigor and control will never remain with the Left Block, but it is important, because you cannot promise everything to everyone, stabilize the universe, the impact and the costs of the measures presented here today. We need to be careful that these emergency measures do not create even greater emergencies. In conclusion, I would like to say the following: in 2011 all parties were called to the responsibility of redeeming the country, signing international financial support. After four years, surely, the Left Block has already thought about this: why did it turn its back on the country? Tell us why you did not assume your responsibilities. It was important that we all knew. In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, contrary to what the honourable Member said, following the euphoria of Syriza's victory, not only was Syriza's victory not the salvation for Europe as they are constituting themselves as cowards of that country, and I tell you that, today, no one has doubt that Syriza has become a true cirrhosis that shames the Greeks and poisons the European project. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u29	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u30	Mr President, Mr. João Figueiredo, what a mess it is going to be! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u31	First, we brought here a social emergency package to respond to people living in this country. Maybe someday PSD wants to respond to who lives in this country! ...Do you think who is without unemployment benefit and without any support should have it? Do you think it's right that a family living without water and light?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u32	And where does the money come from? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u33	Do you think it's right that a family loses the roof or is going to protect people? He didn't answer about it. Ask me where the money comes from, but you know that all the measures that the Left Block has listed cost less than the EUR 3000 million of tax credits that your Government has approved for the New Bank in less than five days.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u35	Don't tell us there's no money! Invent new lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u36	You're going to say that to Greece, with the flight of capitals...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u37	Be more consistent! Give your face for the choices you make! They chose, and they chose to abandon people! But, Mr President, I am very pleased to tell you about Syriza, I do not run away from the subject, quite the contrary. And you know why? Because I know I have in Syriza an example of who in Europe is trying to defend a country. [[Exactly!]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u38	When there are 3 million people without access to health, there are they fighting for access to health! When there are people without water and no light, there are they, fighting!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u39	You have a lot to learn from Syriza!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u40	Do you know what I hope you're doing? I hope you apologize for what your friends did in Greece.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u41	Exactly! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u42	It was the New Democracy which owed Greece up to 200 % of GDP, the New Democracy that made Greek shipowners not pay taxes. The tax fraud system in Greece was created by friends of PSD, CDS and PS. If today there is strength in Europe that rises and that is the only hope of stability in Europe, it is the left! It's the left, because the left fights for people! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] A Europe that abandons people is a Europe that has no future. A Europe in which more than half of young people have no employment is a Europe without a future. Yes, it's the left that's fighting for solidarity! Yes, it's the left that's responding to people! That's what we're doing now. Your government, on the contrary, only throws gasoline into the fire. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u43	I have heard Mr. Prime Minister say that there is no problem, that Greece can even leave the euro that we can stand for another year or two. Mr. Member, I have a 13-year-old daughter, I will not tell you that Europe ends when it is 15. I'm here to fight for dignity every day. It is not «the last to go out that erases the light», it is to respond by the people and by the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u44	Mr David Costa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u45	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, indeed, although the majority of PSD/CDS continue to sell illusions and deny reality, what we have seen in the day-to-day is a complete degradation of the conditions of life of the Portuguese, and hence we will follow the initiative. What we have witnessed, by the action of successive governments of the troika parties, PS, PSD and CDS, is no more than to continue to create better conditions for the large groups of economic and financial interests, at the cost of work and the lives of the Portuguese. The policy of right and troika, which has impoverished and impoverished citizens, increasingly, is there, whether with more freezing and cuts in wages, be with more cuts in reforms and pensions, in its calculation, through the sustainability factor, the authorship of PS and continued by PSD and CDS, either through the condition of resources, invented by PS and continued by PSD and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u47	...a condition that restricts and conditions access to social benefits...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u48	Again? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u49	It is not « again», Mr President, that is a reality. It was invented and is from the authorship of the PS, this condition of resources. As I said, this policy of right and troika is also there with cuts in family allowances, which have been more than 600 000 since 2010. Mrs Catarina Martins, the PCP understands that the path to this point, which left the Father in the state of social calamity in which he is found, is wrong. The PCP, in the defence of a patriotic and left-wing policy, presented several proposals to break with the policy of the troika, i.e. with the policy of PS, PSD and CDS, which we highlight : the repeal of Decree-Law No 70/2010 of 16 June on the condition of resources, and the repeal of the sustainability factor; the thawing of the indexer of social support; the improvement of access and conditions of unemployment benefit; the creation of an extraordinary unemployment allowance; the increase in the value of reforms and pensions by 7, 56 %; the proposal presented at the head of State budget, and a minimum increase of 25 € for all reformed persons. The question that I ask you, Mrs Catarina Martins, is whether you follow the PCP in the options that pass through the valuation of work, wages, social protection, the bet on national production, among others, which are constitutionally guaranteed, in the sense of creation and better distribution of wealth generated as fundamental solutions for the country. On the other hand, after what we have heard from Troika parties, PS, PSD and CDS, who maintain, among others, the factor of sustainability and the condition of resources, I ask you if you think it is possible an alternative policy without breaking with these three Troika parties, or if you share our position that, with these parties, we will continue to have more policy than the troika. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u50	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u51	Mr President, Mr David Costa, I thank you for your request for clarification. Today, we are discussing a social emergency package, presented by the Left Block. It is good to know that the CFP is accompanying us in these proposals. We will also have the opportunity to discuss the CFP proposals and I think we can find a consensus. I believe that we must do more: we must not only seek the broadest possible consensus to respond to people's concrete lives, but also innovate on the social responses we give. We do not simply want to restore what existed; today we demand not only that the achievements of years of solidarity be not overshadowed but that we also demand measures that, in an innovative way, respond to a social situation that is more serious than we thought we would live in these years, and that therefore requires all this capacity to unite in broad social groups that make concrete responses, listening to vast sectors. What is needed today is that there are more Members and Members who put their hands on their conscience and ask themselves what they are doing here and, in the end, whether they should answer about the lives of people or even find themselves that they should continue to make speeches of exchange of accusations, which never take us anywhere. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from PSD MP João Figueiredo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u52	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u53	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I would like to welcome the Left Block on the initiative which, today, brings to Parliament and says very specifically that this bill of yours will have the favourable vote of the Greens Ecologist Party, even because several of the subjects proposed here have already been the subject of other proposals submitted by the Greens. Therefore, we are very pleased to vote in favour of this project, which we consider crucial for the phase that the country is going through. Madam Member, I believe that we have the responsibility to end this fallacy which is now in the Government's mouth permanently, which is this idea that there is no money: « there is no money for nothing» ; « we cannot do, because there is no money» ; « we have had such a rigorous programme and no money! Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs Deputies, we must ask ourselves: if the country is in those conditions, what is the point of losing so many millions and millions of euros to give tax benefits to the bank, which the Government has continued to do, until recently, during its term of office, on the subject of the New Bank? Oh, my God! Madam Member, what conditions do we have, if there are no economic and financial conditions in the country, to give so much money to the financial system? Oh, my God! If we do not have these conditions, the government says, "there is no money, there is no money! » — Why will we end the contribution of the energy sector, which gives the country anything like 150 million euros a year? Oh, my God! What's the logic? Oh, my God! Are we going to lose this contribution that the energy sector makes when only EDP has annual profits of more than EUR 1000 million? Oh, my God! This is a perfectly incomprehensible thing! So, what is important for the Portuguese to realize is that there is money, yes, sir, only that it is channelled to where the government wants, and it is not, of course, for the Portuguese and to generate quality of life for the Portuguese. That is, the redistribution of the money that is being made in an absolutely unfair way. Do you know what I believe in, Your Honor? I believe that the Government will not want to channel many conditions for the Portuguese because it also ideologically has the paradigm of habituating Portuguese at a certain level of poverty, habituating Portuguese not to be too ambitious, in social progress, so that it can continue to give to the great economic and financial groups, serving those who are, in fact, serving and continuing to claim that the poverty that goes through the people and the poverty that spreads to the people is inevitable. There is no such thing as inevitability, and we know that, Mrs. Member! We know it's a government option. The government has left people to the last place. The Prime Minister was very clear in saying that he would fulfill the programme 'costs what it costs'! But, Mrs Deputies, before, during the election campaign, had told the Portuguese that they had wonderfully well done accounts and that she knew that, with the troika programme, there would be no need to even increase taxes and cut wages. This was a lie, it was an absolutely blatant lie! And now, he continues to lie, creating an illusion about the reality of the country, saying, in particular, that there is a lot of social cohesion, that there is no more social inequality or, even, that the levels of emigration were not much, compared to other years. This is, in fact, absolutely embarrassing! Madam Member, what I would like to draw attention to is, in fact, our responsibility, that we also have it, to alert the Portuguese to these round lies and to a true approach to reality. And the true approach to reality makes us, if we are human, to fight poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u54	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u55	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, thank you for your request for clarification. I subscribe to what I said and I think it might be good to remember, even, two data: one is that one of the great problems, right now, of many families is to be able to pay the bill of light. And there are so many houses with the light cut, at a time when energy privatized, energy rose by 30 %, and dividends, the profit that energy gave, instead of being in the country, is going everything, everything, abroad. So, there's poorer here inside and there's so much money going out of Portugal. The other point I would like to mention is on this issue of 'no money', of the duality of the right. The Portuguese Banks Association publishes statistics that the government does not usually publish, and it is worth it; one of them, interestingly, shows that in 2010 public support to the bank was around 3 % of GDP and in 2014 around 19 % of GDP. So to the question about whether money is missing, I say no, it is not. It's being used in the wrong place! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the debate focuses on the issue of social emergency. Portugal has been severely affected in recent years by an international financial crisis whose effects have been more marked due to the adjustment programme that the Government has implemented, which has changed and raised the issue of going beyond what was imposed by the troika. This situation has affected the economy, and consequently people, dramatic effects, which have resulted in a significant increase in poverty and inequality. Steps Coelho, in October 2011 stated without any hesitation the following : « we will only get out of this situation by impoverishing it in relative terms and even in absolute terms ». The numbers of statistics on poverty and inequality reveal the result of the course chosen by the Prime Minister and the Government. The numbers show us, without masks and no subterfuges, that are the poorest who suffer most from this radical policy of impoverishment and austerity at any cost. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And any cost means a country of depressed people, a country of people who, with the current situation, believe that they can hardly dispel hope. In view of the variation in the income available 2009 / 2013 by decision, about 2 million Portuguese people in the first two decisions lost one quarter of their income and, second, 10 %, while those in the tenth and last ten percent lost 8 %. This is the raw reality! These are the consequences of the way the right-wing coalition Government has wrongly responded to the international crisis, with responsibilities added to the most serious economic and social recession in our history in democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it matters here, today, when we speak of social emergency, and when we look at these last years of governance, understand effectively the options taken and how they have seriously affected the poorest people, people who are not anonymous, people who are part of families without jobs and without incomes, children and young people with their highly committed future, elderly people who, at the end of life, have to divide their resources, their few incomes, with children and grandchildren to ensure family support. The risk of poverty in Portugal in 2013 was 19, 5 %, values that only parallel in 2003, 10 years ago, meaning that in 2013, 2 million Portuguese and Portuguese lived with less than 411 € per month. The risk of poverty for children and young people increased to 25, 6 % in 2013, equivalent to 470 000 children compared to 21, 8 % in 2011. In just two years, there was an increase in the risk of poverty in children by 3, 8 percentage points. These figures mean that today one in four children is at risk of poverty. A quarter of the adults of active age are at risk of poverty. There are more than 250,000 people within two years. Even among older people, where the risk of poverty has decreased in recent years in Portugal, the result of specific poverty reduction policies aimed at this segment of the population, namely one of the most powerful measures in recent years in combating the poverty of older people, the solidarity complement for the elderly, even among this group, the poverty risk rate rose to 15, 1 % in 2013. In other words, the risk of poverty reached about 310,000 elderly people. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are three determining aspects that explain many of these numbers that impress us, in terms of poverty and inequality, levels equivalent to those of the beginning of the last decade. There is a 10-year backwardness which, in order to be repaired and recovered, urgently needs a change of policy and policy that makes the country grow economically, generate wealth, generate development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first aspect I want to highlight is the sharp job breakdown. As a result of the policy adopted by the current government to deal with the 2009 international crisis, 216 000 jobs were destroyed. This disconcerting value that the Government insists on devaluation is the main cause of family income loss. It was this reality, combined with the sharp decrease in the value of work, which led to 456 000 people emigrated in search of work in just four years, looking for better wages in any other country. And these people are mostly qualified young people, they are people who need the country, who need families, who need businesses, who need the economy, who need a generationally balanced society, who need to increase their birth rate and design the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second determining aspect is the reduction of social benefits. Social benefits have contributed in Portugal, without any doubt, to the reduction of the incidence of poverty. But there is a myth, a myth that the right often refers to, that social transfers are too high. And it is good for us today, in this debate on the social emergency, to demonstrate with seriousness once and for all the national reality in this matter. If it is true that pensions have a high reduction effect on the rate of poverty at the most effective level in Europe, it is also true that, as far as social transfers are concerned, excluding pensions, we are far from reaching even the European average. Behind us are only Latvia, Poland, Italy, Bulgaria, Romania and Greece. With our 27 %, we are far from reaching 63 % of Ireland — Ireland has heard well — the European country which, despite the financial bail programme, is the one where social transfers, excluding pensions, contribute more to reducing the risk of poverty. It is essential that we continue to bet on these social transfers, that programmes and policies be rehabilitated so that those and those who live in poor conditions have access to income that guarantees them the social minimums, which is indeed a right of citizenship enshrined in our legal framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third and last aspect I want to stress is that of increasing inequalities in Portugal. The inequalities, the gap between the richest and the poorest have increased in our country with the options of the current government to deal with the crisis. The cuts in social benefits, unemployment, the devaluation of work—and it should be noted that the average wage in Portugal is €580, little more than the minimum wage—and the huge increase in taxes have widened the gap and accentuated one of the most serious problems in our country, i.e. inequalities in the distribution of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All indicators that measure inequality in the distribution of income have worsened according to the latest known data. Today 10 % of the richest Portuguese have 11, 1 times more income than 10 % of the poorest Portuguese — a ratio that in 2009 was 9, 2 times. It is noted that the Gini coefficient, which measures asymmetry in the distribution of income in a single value, declined in 2013 to 34, 5 %. He said Steps Rabbit, in December 2014 : « Unlike the popular jargon of ‘who fucks is the mussel’, who are always the same, this time they all contributed and contributed more who had the most, there is no doubt’. The most recent economic and social indicators fully reject this parable of the Prime Minister as there has been a worsening of poverty and inequality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In view of this dramatic situation of the crisis and the maximum of going beyond the troika that the Government adopted, the Minister of Solidarity presented in August 2011 a programme to which he called the Social Emergency Programme. This programme initially consisted of 49 measures, moving from one year later to 53 measures aimed at reaching 3 million people and an estimated financial package of EUR 400 million. A six-month evaluation of the Programme was also planned. And we ask: where are the results of the 53 measures? Where are the six-monthly evaluations? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where is the final evaluation of the Program that ended in December 2014? Were the 3 million people covered? What were the impacts on poverty risk statistics? We know that, of the measures presented, the increases in the lowest value pensions, the spread of social canteens and little more have been met. But we also know that, at this same time, social benefits to combat poverty and exclusion have suffered a sharp decrease. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The number of beneficiaries of the RSI fell sharply, as well as the number of beneficiaries of the CSI and the family allowance also decreased. These decreases in the number of persons covered by these social benefits, at a time of great difficulty for so many Portuguese and Portuguese, were due to the introduction of rules aimed at limiting access to these benefits, with a decrease in the reference value of the IRS for values identical to the year 2008, or at the ISC, with the increase of access age, which increased from 65 to 66 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And so, with a lot of publicity, the government has cut into the incomes of those who have less, bearing in mind that it has presented a large programme which is nothing more than nothing, and the evidence is that the planned assessment does not continue to appear. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It increased the allocation of social action, it is true, but, as the figures show, this increase had no impact on the risk of poverty, nor on the inequalities in the distribution of incomes in our country, even having been a backwardness for values of a few decades ago. The Left Block presents a bill for a social emergency law. The Socialist Party shares many of the assumptions presented, but has some doubts about a law with this scope, even though it agrees with the meaning of much of the proposals. The country needs public policies that, not by emergency, but by intransigent defence of social cohesion and the reduction of the risk of poverty and inequality, support and integrate the most disadvantaged. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because we believe that the path to Portugal is not a path of austerity, but a path of growth that generates employment and well-being; because we believe that in developed societies there will always be those who need social minimums and cannot be left behind; because we believe that the State has a duty to protect and support children and young people, ensuring equal opportunities for them; because we believe that we must, within our possibilities, do everything within our power to ensure that no Portuguese lives below the threshold of poverty; because we believe in all these assumptions, we have a different strategy for the country, which basically bets on three axes. First, we are committed to the need to design a national strategy to combat poverty for children and young people, in which family allowance recovers centrality as public reference support for families. Secondly, we want to restore the social minimums for citizens of greater vulnerability and, thirdly, we want to dignify the work, supporting the increase in the minimum wage, building with the social partners a medium-term agreement and creating public support for low wages, preventing working families with children from living below the poverty line. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying: Portugal, Portuguese and Portuguese deserve the new political cycle to restore to them the hope of living with quality, having a job, of being able to choose if they want to stay in the country, of having the children they wish to have, of having a reform at the end of their lives that is not cut by a unilateral decision of any government, of having respect for who governs them and of having, above all, without emergencies and with peace of mind, to trust in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u58	The Bureau registered three entries for requests for clarification. In the meantime, Mrs Catarina Marcelino said she would respond together. For a request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems obvious to us that the PS makes a fairly correct diagnosis of the situation in Portugal. When we have 25% of the population at risk of poverty — a poverty, often shameless, invisible, characteristic of our past — we speak of one in every four people who are denied the most basic dignity of being able to eat, have a home, feed themselves, have living conditions. So it's really an emergency and a choice we're talking about. Mrs. Catarina Marcelino, I have two very simple questions to ask. First of all, I should like to know whether Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa is accompanied by Mr. Pedrosa, who did not scandalize himself with 300 000 families to whom electricity is cut and who is not scandalized with the increase in seasonal mortality because of many elderly people who do not have money to pay for heating at home, but who is outraged that the Left Block wants to ban EDP — which is a company that earns millions, which distributes millions to its private shareholders, who pays millions in wages to administrators — from cutting electricity to those who cannot afford it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u60	It is the PS who is the champion of social rights, not the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u61	These are choices and priorities. The second question, which is also very simple, is the following: when the honourable Member speaks of the need not to cut support for anyone, to leave no one behind, I would like to know whether that means that he will support the proposal put forward by the Left Block to grant the unemployment allowance and, therefore, extend social protection to all the long-term unemployed and to all those who do not currently have support. [[BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u62	For a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u63	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, we are not surprised that the Left Block will come forward with the proposals it has put forward or has the speech it has given, which criticizes the Government in a maniqueist, warm and somewhat radical way as it has done. What surprises us, in fact, is that the Socialist Party has the same tone, the same attacks, the same speech and that it aggravates this speech by assuming a completely demagogic position, making a disresponsibility speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u64	I wanted us to praise the government! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u65	I think it is important that we focus this debate on facts so that it has some reasonableness. The honourable Member has spoken a lot in comparison, but I will come to present some facts and I would like to say at the end of the day what I should say and explain to myself how these facts and these differences between the current government and the former PS Government fit into the current speech of the Socialist Party. A fact: in 2011 — a time when they said it was better than this — all pensions were frozen, and it was this government that took them off. Fact two: since 2009 — also a time that says it was better than this — social action funds have decreased year after year and, in addition to decreasing, never met what was planned. This government, on the contrary, and despite the constraints we all know, has substantially increased this money for social action and in 2015 alone are budgeted more than 440 million euros than they were in 2011.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u67	Fact three, the PS said, in 2011, at the negotiation of the Memorandum of Understanding, that all social benefits within IRS would be taxed which would, to be implemented, represent the 10% cut in each social benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u68	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u69	And it was this government that managed to go back to this measure and that made it not applied to social benefits, such as paternity, illness or unemployment. Fact four: it was at the time of the PS, when unemployment was already rising, that the government then decided to terminate the increase in unemployment benefit for couples with dependent children. And it was this government, in the Social Emergency Plan - which you have now requested the evaluation - which applied for the increase for these couples, for single-parent families and for self-employed workers. Fact five: in 2011, Portugal had 65 social canteens, currently has more than 900. Here is another data to evaluate the Social Emergency Programme. Fact six: while the Socialist Party cut the steps of family allowance, as we all know, this government allowed family allowance to be revised quarterly, adjusting the step to incomes and allowing more 53,000 families not to wait two years as before. Fact seven: We have decreased from 15 months to 12 months the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit. Fact eight: The number of day care centres increased by 19 000; the number of day care centres increased by 15 000 in the homes of the elderly, with an increase of 28 % in the continuing care network, with more than 1500 new beds. Fact nine: credit lines of more than EUR 180 million were created for social institutions, cooperation agreements were increased, and the annual amount invested was strengthened, which totals EUR 1.2 billion per year today.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u70	Facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u71	Mrs Catarina Marcelino, who could continue to list several facts, could mention to her the comprehensive assessment that the Minister made yesterday in committee on the Social Emergency Plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u72	Don't get tired!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u73	But for now, I wanted you to tell me, in the name of consistency and even political honesty, how it compares what this government has done with what the PS has done and with what the PS has not done. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u74	Also for requests for clarification, Mrs Teresa Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today in this House to discuss the draft law on social emergency law. when the country has just emerged from a financial assistance plan, an official recession period of its economy and, for the first time, it is achieving the balance of public accounts according to the agreed European budgetary rules, and despite unemployment being a cause of concern, employment recovery, whose growth is at the front of the countries of Europe where employment has grown, should be a reason for hope and satisfaction of all banks without exception. The Left Block, in this project, says to present a rescue plan for people. The rescue plan for this government is to bet on the creation of more jobs so that the Portuguese feel made with the available income, the fruit of their work and not merely from the assistanceist origin.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u77	What country and what government are you talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u78	The new Community framework Portugal 2020 is the mirror of this plan by setting two fundamental axes, one for companies, placing on their competitiveness and internationalisation, another without neglecting the existing unemployment, because it continues to be a cause of concern, which is why this Government, for the first time in five Community frameworks, agreed on an axis of boosting employment, combating poverty and social exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite all the positive signs, this is a country in which its rulers have the obligation to manage freedom and sovereignty won with the exit of the troika and not to fall into pure demagogic exercises—as is evident in the project under consideration—from hunting for vote, from pre-election, by parties who know that the Portuguese people will never entrust them with the management of the country's destinations and that they do not want to go through the same sacrifices again. With the speeches of the two Members of the Socialist Party, we have seen the public recognition here before this House and all the Portuguese who are listening to us, that the PSD/CDS coalition government has ruled better in these last four years than the previous socialist governments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u79	It is noted that Mr. Paulo Pedrosa has even come to request an agreement with the Left Block to move forward with new social support that the PS cut as a government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u80	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u81	Mrs Catarina Marcelino says she agrees with the proposals of the Left Block. Now, with this agreement, what do you understand? In view of its intervention, the PS is here today to recognize that, after all, this coalition government—in spite of the legislation that began in 2011, despite the heavy socialist heritage, with all the conditions I have already mentioned—and in view of its good governance, it already meets conditions, in its public accounts, to restore the support that the Socialist Party, apparently better in the country, withdrew to the Portuguese that they needed four years ago. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u82	And it's noticed that most of you are. Members of the Socialist Party or many of them had responsibilities as rulers in the social folder. To conclude, and in a tone of question, he said that in the penultimate 15-year debate with Mr. Prime Minister, the leader of the socialist board, Mr. Ferro Rodrigues, he said that he was here to defend exactly the same principles and policies that he had defended four years ago. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u83	What I'm asking the ladies. Members of the PS who have just intervened is the following: do they agree that the PS continues to defend the breach of the social agreement and defend the national minimum wage, as it did in 2011? More: requires this government, through the agreement with the troika, to continue its freezing. Will the PS continue to defend the freezing of minimum social and rural pensions, how did you do? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u84	Will the PS continue to defend the cut of the family allowance, how did you do on the fourth and fifth steps? Will the PS continue to defend the court in the increase in unemployment benefits of couples in which they are both unemployed? Is the PS going, as you mentioned here the Left Block, to continue defending the cut-off of social benefits? Finally, these are issues that we, in this House, and the Portuguese would like to see answered. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u85	In reply, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u86	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I believe that we are all indignant at our bench. All socialists are indignant at the situation the country is going through, accompanying Portuguese and Portuguese in this outrage. I believe that this is the time for all those who are outraged together to defend a radically different strategy to combat poverty in our country. Our position is that Portuguese society needs to be mobilized. As for your proposal, it deserves to be discussed in the specialty. Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, if everything you say this government did results, poverty did not have these numbers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is evidence that poverty has these numbers. Do you not wonder why poverty has reached these numbers, even with what you say they are fantastic policies? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, your slogan is « Portugal ahead». What you did was that Portugal was 10 years behind poverty, 10 years behind inequality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, Mrs Teresa Santos, the four years of your governance have only one name: tragedy! It's a tragedy, because even the public accounts aren't controlled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If not, why would the IMF and the European Commission ask for more cuts and more reforms? Finally, saying that the right has a tendency to destroy, the right has a tendency to make the numbers of poverty, numbers that are dramatic, in fake numbers, where nothing happens but it happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u87	And the tendency to pay bills? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u88	People in Portugal know that. The last few decades are that balance sheet, and you have done something tragic: they have made the numbers, which have always walked forward in the last decades, walk back. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u89	Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents to this Assembly of the Republic Bill No. 994 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Social emergency law. I welcome the Left Block and, of course, I will talk about your initiative and soon at the beginning, and not much of a passage, to 12. The minute of my intervention. Your initiative, which was announced during the last parliamentary days of your party, focuses on some areas, including unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit, old-age pension, national minimum wage, family allowance, VAT, to prevent the suspension of the supply of electricity, gas and water to certain citizens on the basis of certain circumstances, income and immeasurability of their own housing. The Left Block supports the proposals in a reading of the Portuguese society's situation and, it is assumed — I stress, it is assumed — an assessment of the Portuguese State's ability to deal with a set of financial commitments that your bill implies. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no one who knows that economic and financial adjustment processes have negative social effects. It has always been this way in all countries that they have to pass through. What matters most in these situations is how countries can cushion these negative social effects and, of course, whether the financial adjustment has been successful. Fortunately, there are other visions, different from those of the Left Block, about the situation of the country. Let's take a look at some of them. in a scientific article, Viegas and Ribeiro, in 2014, discuss the impacts of adjustment in Portugal motivated by the commitments made in May 2011 with the troika and tell us about a forecast of positive results in the medium term in terms of minimum level of social welfare, despite some losses in equity, especially during the transition years, the first years of implementation. They understand the authors who, past those early years, the adjustment will tend to promote equity, reflecting the results of a consolidation strategy that, among other aspects, combined budget cuts with a slight increase in social transfers and which even improved Portugal's position in terms of netforign assets. According to the World Bank, Portugal, between 2010 and 2014, went from a negative value to a positive value in this indicator, contributing this verification to the finding of a more balanced Portugal. in the World Finance we present a summary of the situation of Portugal post-2011. It refers to the challenges Portugal has faced as very difficult, but it is said that significant improvements have been achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u92	Portugal had as its objective to contain the fiscal deficit and achieve the sustainability of public accounts, implement structural reforms capable of creating growth and strengthening the financial system so that it, trained, could support the economy more. By continuing to base us on the World Finance, Portugal then began a path that can be marked by the following points: increased exports; strengthened the productive sector, with the capacity of affirmation in new external markets; down unemployment to about 13 %, still higher than 2011, but well behind the 17, 5 % reached in the adjustment period; strengthening banking credit to the productive sector; and partial and prudent recovery of public service wages and much of pensions. These examples are used to show the Left Block that there are different independent views on the same subject. And, on this subject, it is a matter of assessing, as we have already mentioned, whether, at the political level, who has taken the initiative to depreciate such expected social costs. Before we show what has been done and if it has been done, we stopped quickly in the proposal of the Left Block. It's not really a Thessaloniki Program, but there are some affinityes. It is not a Thessaloniki Programme, because it contained an estimate of costs and this initiative does not have it, nor has it been manifestly presented to us. The Thessaloniki Programme had a clear ambition of government, the Left Block has no ambition. Being power, being government is, let us agree, very different from being opposition—let your Greek fellowman say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u94	The bill of the Left Block today under consideration is, in our view, a social manifesto. It's a expensive manifesto, unbearably expensive for the country, and it's an atavic manifesto. in this, the Left Block is consistent, because atavism is always present in your proposals. And one question arises: Is this your well - meant manifesto? Perhaps, we do not discuss intentions that could immediately benefit our fellow citizens, but the project is exaggerated in the diagnosis and even more in the proposed cure. And to the immediate benefit, new difficulties might arise that need to be met. The mirage of rapid repair of problems can often accentuate them. Therefore, caution is lacking, and caution is lacking in your proposal / manifesto. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We are talking about a complex, delicate social situation — we all know it this way, with less loaded traits, obviously — alarmically, which justifies the solution and justifies it more than the situation itself. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to what's been done. Without stability in public accounts, it will be very difficult to maintain adequate levels of social support. Nothing has prevented the government from intervening in the constant areas of this left block bill. in the unemployment allowance, for example, the guarantee period was reduced, the unemployment allowance was increased for unemployed couples with dependent children, the unemployment allowance was created for individual entrepreneurs and selfemployed workers and the accumulation of subsidies for business creation is allowed. in the pensions, there was the freezing of minimum pensions; there was protection in the cuts of a very high percentage of pensions and, recently, there was the elimination of the ESC for an important set of pensioners. The national minimum wage, at its own place, in consultation, was increased after intervention of the Economic and Financial Adjustment Programme. in the family allowance, the possibility of families reassessing their situation quarterly was opened. In 2014 many families saw a more expeditious response to their needs. in VAT for social support, the government has made it possible to return VAT in social constructions, which represents a clear possibility of improving conditions for thousands of users. The Government has promoted social energy discounts through the social energy tariff. The government has stimulated the social lease market in response to the housing needs of the deprived population. The impermenability would be a decision with potentially negative consequences for housing credit, the construction sector and the economy of the country. It is a subject that should be discussed. But the solution must be another, probably more mature. There was a strengthening of the funds allocated for social action. Local Social Development Contracts (LDS) will be updated. The Local Social Intervention Network ( RLIS ) will be extended. The fruitful partnership between the State and the partners of the social economy sector has been noted, formally materialized in different agreements and materialized daily in care work, without shame, but above all of the training of the populations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. The Government has chosen prudent and viable responses, with which we agree. in general, the PSD Parliamentary Group sees itself as a capable social intervention, capable, capable, sustained, balanced and which, by being able to support immediately those who experience difficulties, does not do so in order to mortgage the future of their own and the collective. What is not feasible should not be proposed. What is not sustainable should not be proposed. Portugal needs stability. The Portuguese want viable solutions. And this is the way forward. It's not the alarm that creates the emergency. Not to legislate on the alarm, even giving it the emergency name, solve it. It's prudence that avoids it. It is in cooperation and solidarity that we resolve emergencies. in social matters, as in others, the PSD Parliamentary Group prefers prudence and cooperation to alarm and immediacy. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u95	Three Members have signed up to request clarification. In the meantime, Mr José Manuel Canavarro informed the Bureau that he would reply separately to each Member. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Aiveca.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u96	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Canavarro, told us that he was only here to talk about the Left Block initiative and our proposals. however, he said much more, made comparisons and resorted to statistics. What I wanted to say to you is that, whether you are using reality or using statistics, there is only one conclusion that can be drawn: in Portugal, since 2011, unemployment has increased, poverty has increased and the indebtedness of families has increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u97	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u98	This conclusion is absolutely fundamental, Mr President. But I wanted to tell you about our proposals. Our proposals have the sense of protecting those who have suffered from austerity policies in the skin — that is the meaning of our proposals. And this is no campaign, sir, it's real, it's true, it's concrete. And I wanted to tell you about two of our proposals, starting with regard to family allowance. Mr President, was it not true that what they gave down from IRC to large companies, that is, EUR 200 million / year or EUR 400 million in two years, would they give back the family allowance?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u99	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u100	The second question I want to ask you has to do with the unemployment allowance, with our proposal to reduce the period of access to unemployment benefit and the social unemployment benefit, that is, our proposal to protect who has been abandoned, to protect those who have been left behind, to protect 700 000 people who have no benefit at all. And what I'm asking you is also if you don't think the tax benefits that were given to companies would come to this protection. This is the serious debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u101	To reply, Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u102	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Aiveca, I thank you for your questions. If you really want to know my opinion on whether the social conditions of the country have improved since 2011, I must give you an answer that is obvious and which already included my intervention: there is no economic and financial adjustment programme that does not entail negative social costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u104	This is an obvious reality, here and in all the countries where there was intervention. What is crucial is that we overcome, in a way, I would say, perennially, all these difficulties and that the adjustment is made. Otherwise, we will have an adjustment spiral, as has happened in other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u105	in Greece!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u106	And in this respect, I think Portugal has done well. Now, if I wonder if, after the adjustment period, we have been improving social indicators, I reply that, yes, we have been improving some social indicators, which is extremely positive. I will give you one: the growth of employment. It's a look. But if you ask me about 2011, I can't answer you in any other way, it wouldn't be serious. But it would also not be serious to expect this to happen. And I don't know if you noticed that, in my speech, for about 10 minutes, I never talked about the Socialist Party. I spoke about your proposal and what has been the response of our Government. And this is called seriousness and delicacy from a political point of view. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u107	I didn't talk about who you were back, I talked about who you are now -- and that's relevant. And I talked about your proposals, I salute you for them, and I think they have some aspects, I would say, positive. There are, however, aspects to which we must regret those same proposals. He asked me two very concrete questions. As regards the issue of the IRC discharge,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u108	Quantify!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u109	...is an option. You understand that if we go to a problem quickly, let us solve it. We understand that if we improve the conditions of the economy, these problems can be solved by this way. We have a different understanding. Yours is as good as ours. They are respectable understandings from a political point of view; they are understandings that others will judge which of them is the best. And in that respect, I have nothing more to say to you. It is your choice, which, as you know and is evident, respect. With regard to unemployment subsidies, we have already reduced the guarantee period. Ask me if you can get more down. It is an aspect that needs to be studied with some care and some delicacy. But that would answer: we will create more jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u110	The PS says that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u111	...we will try to get people to get job responses faster than subsidised answers. I think that's more positive. But this is also an ideological meeting. however, your questions and your objections are clearly proposed and understandable, taking into account the bench where the honourable Member feels. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u112	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u113	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Canavarro, the honourable Member said that there are no adjustment programmes that have no negative social effects and that what is needed is (I think these were his words) « to cushion these effects». Now, this statement is paradigmatic to whom the adjustment programmes serve. It is paradigmatic that this Memorandum of Understanding of the Troika, which was signed by the PS, the PSD and the CDS, and that the PCP, since the first hour, called "a programme of aggression" to the people and the country, because that was what was dealt with and it was translated into—that is, in the impoverishment of broad layers of the population, in the exacerbation of poverty and social exclusion— never aimed to solve the problem of unemployment. And that's exactly why, because it aimed to numb some negative impacts. That is why we wanted to ask you a specific question about unemployment benefit. It is that, on the pretext of the crisis and the so-called Memorandum, this government has found ways to aggravate exploitation, to generalize precariousness and to lower wages. And here I will give you a concrete example. Mr President, it is not an immediate intervention on the problems, but it is creating economic conditions for the situation to be resolved. Mr President, how do you explain that your Government has applied Decree-Law No 64 / 2012, making it difficult to access unemployment benefit? It has reduced the guarantee deadlines, it is true, but it has also reduced the amount and time to grant the allowance. This is offering with one hand and taking with two, sir! It has decreased the guarantee deadlines, but it has also decreased the value and the time for which unemployment benefit is granted. Moreover, at the end of six months, he applied a cut of 10 %. So tell us there, Mr President, where this aims to solve the problem of unemployment. You don't! This has the strategic objective of exacerbating the exploitation of those who work, reducing wages and generalising precariousness. It is that, Mr. Member, the value of the unemployment allowance in 2012 was €513 and the average value of the unemployment allowance in 2014 is €470. What's the point? Is it to enrich workers, reducing the value of unemployment benefit? Or is it to force the payroll down? It is because you know, your government knows, and the employer also knows that a worker, without any social support, accepts any conditions, because he has accounts to pay, has a family to feed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u114	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u115	This therefore has the strategic objective of replacing workers with rights by workers without rights. It has the strategic objective of devaluation of work, because that is the political program of the PSD and the CDS. And that is why we understand that the troika pact, which was signed by PS, PSD and CDS, and that the successive changes to unemployment benefit, made by PS, PSD and CDS, did not aim to favour workers, only had the political objective of aggravating exploitation and lowering wages. Mr President, why has this government never carried out a national plan to combat precariousness when most cases of unemployment result in precarious situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u117	I answer: because I have never had this objective, because the commitment of this government is not with the workers, it is with the patronage and, in particular, with the great patronage, with the one who uses and abuses contracts in the long term, uses and abuses green receipts. You said here that this government has created the unemployment allowance for self-employed people. What this government had to do was convert false green receipts into contracts with rights, and do not guarantee unemployment benefit through discounts on the wages of these workers. What the government had to do was ensure that a false green receipt made a contract with rights. But that is not what the government wants to do, because this government's commitment is not to employment with rights, it is to worsen exploitation and concentration of wealth. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u118	To reply, Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u119	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, thank you very much for the questions you have asked me. There is one thing I cannot follow: it is his atavism, even because, being more than a hundred years old, I have even a lot of difficulty in accompanying him. I challenge you to find a country that has gone through an economic and financial adjustment programme without, with that adjustment, having had negative social effects. It's part of it, Mrs. Member, that's the way it is. It's about being realistic. As far as the questions you are asking me, I must say the following: as far as matters of precariousness are concerned, even in this House, we have worked on this in committee. Starting from a legislative initiative of citizens, we have tried to take steps to reduce precariousness in our country. And the fact is that the latest data we have reported the following: in the contracts made in the last few months, there is a prevalence of unfinished contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u120	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u121	Therefore, this is clearly an indicator that precariousness has been decreasing. That's a positive look. If you ask me if there is more to do about this, I will answer that, of course, there is. And that I agree with you. I agree with you, not the way we would solve the problem, but the problem, because it exists. But some steps have been taken, even in difficult situations, to solve it. And, in this respect, I believe that we are communicating with the need that there is to happen more of this situation that I have just mentioned, i.e. to have to be more people hired without end than those who are hired out or who have another kind of work relationship that does not have so much sustainability for the person and for the family themselves so that they can define other more stable ways in their own lives. As far as unemployment is concerned, the truth is that unemployment has been declining. This is something that statistics also indicate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u123	We are not yet at 2011 level,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u124	But we're almost there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u125	... but there is a very clear trend—I would say almost a current—of decreasing unemployment. And this is one aspect that we also have to deal with and that we also have to check. There are positive aspects, Mrs. Deputies. The honourable Member says: « No, you just wanted to numb it». Mrs. Member, there's no other way to do things. Amortizing is realism in the application of a policy. It is not possible to do otherwise. From the moment the adjustment is made, it is possible, yes, to intervene differently, and this has been done. Now, while there is economic and financial adjustment, what can be done is to cushion the social effects. Portugal is clearly an international example in this field. Portugal must take pride in the adjustment it has made and have managed to avoid more harmful social effects. That's my opinion, it's not yours. I can't share yours and I'm sure you won't share mine either. The political debate has these things, Mrs Deputies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u126	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u127	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Canavarro, I would like to address a very specific question. I have been attentive to your speech and I have found that even in the responses to the requests for clarification, you have never mentioned that the proposals that are on the table today are not fair, nor should they be implemented in a world of justice—we imagine so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u128	Let's imagine!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u129	What I said to oppose them was that they are expensive, that they cannot apply because they are expensive. What I want to ask you is that the huge tax benefits that the government continues to make available to the bank are not expensive to the country, are they not expensive? Oh, my God! Is it not expensive to end the contribution of the energy sector to the country? Oh, my God! I mean, for some things we're on balance, for others it's all very expensive and it doesn't matter! Let's agree, it's a matter of choice, isn't it? Mr President, it is often in times of greatest difficulty that one perceives exactly who the political forces are serving. The honourable Member has just referred to the question of IRC as an option and I fully agree. It was an option that you took: to go down the IRC to the big companies, instead of going down the IRS to the Portuguese families, in particular to end the overtax of the IRS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u131	It was an option. Ours would be another. Why? Because you are at the service of great interests and we are at the service of the quality and well-being of the Portuguese people. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Can I give you my opinion? It's the reading I do. Besides, I couldn't even do another one. Even on the extraordinary contribution, they preferred, on their calendar, to end it within two years—as if they were to stay, we hope not, in a next legislature—but the replacement of wages will only be made within four years if they do not find other ways of replacing it. There are, in fact, options here that demonstrate to the service of who it is. There are certain sectors, large economic and financial groups, which have always managed to cope in times of full crisis, as you have characterized them. EDP has always kept having huge profits, it was absolutely fantastic, but with the Portuguese it was always getting worse, getting bigger, taking away, taking away.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u132	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u133	I will finish, Mr. President. And the most amazing and distressing thing is that you saw yourself for the Portuguese and say: "We are taking you away, but it is for your good. This comes, in the future, to give you great assurances. They have no doubts.' And tiram, tiram, tiram... What you really want to do is to get the Portuguese people used to a certain level of poverty so that they do not demand much, so that you can continue to serve the great economic and financial interests,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u134	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u135	...and so on, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's not fair. Therefore, as you should calculate, we consider it essential to end this policy and to do so is to end the governance of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u136	To reply, Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u137	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I thank you for your question and the comments you have made on my speech. Our attention and perception are always selective and the honourable Member has selected part of my speech. I think that all the points touched by the Left Block initiative are extremely relevant from the social point of view, I do not deny that. As for the proposals in particular, I must confess that, reading most of them, I have many doubts about their implementation and application, I have many doubts about the capacity that the State would have to meet the costs they entail and, acting in this way, I have many doubts — legitimate, in my view — about whether I would actually solve the problem of citizens. Obviously, acting in the manner indicated in the project, I would have less capacity to act in other sectors—and we are going to those who referred—which also have to do with people's lives. Therefore, I do not neglect the proposal of the Left Block, I think it affects relevant and important sectors and therefore there is some justice in this concern. As for its application, not wanting to put me in the place of the Left Block, I think it would not have the effect that eventually the Left Block itself would want. I believe that there is an overdose here, i.e., there is a substance that, although it can be curative, if applied too much can harm the patient. So we have to take some care, some caution. With regard to the question which he refers to, that he himself manifests some atavism, let us see: even in tax matters, there were some options, but also in relation to some aspects which he referred to as the overtax and the recovery of salaries of public officials and pensioners, there has also been a commitment to, with some caution and depending on the country's economic performance, this can be solved. I think there is an emergency proposal here where, more than the emergency, only the alarm and there is a way to solve things with some caution, with some weight. For example, exports in Portugal have increased; the new markets that Portuguese companies have discovered, and in which they are interacting from an economic point of view, have also increased; employment has increased... There are a number of positive indicators, from a social point of view. There cannot always be a negative view of these aspects. There are positive aspects, there are aspects that have improved and, frankly, I believe that those who come out of a programme of economic and financial adjustment as hard as ours, so reported and so evaluated by international institutions, have, in my view, to be proud, despite the difficulties that have arisen in the country, of the social depreciation which has still been able to cause in their fellow citizens. The honourable Member said that we will certainly not be ruling here after September, but the truth is, speaking on electoral matters, curiously, we are clearly debating the elections. And for the countries that have developed the economic and financial adjustment programme, check who was driving the country at that time, how many were able to dispute the elections over the past four years, and you will see what is the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u138	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u139	It is not easy to continue to dispute elections under these conditions. This Government has had an extraordinary performance in several areas and only this action enables it, in a coalition—the Government is a coalition—to be contesting elections for three or four months. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u140	For an intervention, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear that this government and this majority, following the 2011 elections, had a perfect understanding of the situation in which we found the country, the situation we were inheriting, the state of public finances, the situation of social catastrophe and that the application of the constant measures of the Memorandum of Understanding would cause sacrifices, difficulties and suffering to many and many Portuguese, to a large percentage of the Portuguese population. We had this notion and since the beginning that the Government and this majority have announced their lines. Having this knowledge, we said that it was necessary to undertake profound reforms to recover the country, to recover public finances, to revive the economy, to allow the country to relaunch itself in job creation and, at the same time, to withstand the initial impact that constant coercion measures of the Memorandum would cause large sectors of the Portuguese population, we said that we would have to implement a social emergency programme, we would have to implement exceptional measures to support people who would suffer the most, the hundreds and hundreds of thousands that we inherited from the Socialist Party who were already unemployed and with the RSI. It was almost 1 million Portuguese who in 2011 were already in this situation, plus those who, in the first phase of implementation of the measures, would also suffer this impact. And this government did. What is true is that, firmly and not giving in to easy speeches, not giving in to facilitation, not giving in to the pressures that the left wanted to impose, on the street, the whole country, in order to facilitate, to slow down a path that we knew was hard and difficult, we managed, from the first quarter of 2013, to return to the situation. From that point on, when unemployment reached almost 18 %, we were able gradually to start reducing unemployment — with effort, sacrifice, but we fell firmly and today is at 13 % — and we were able to start creating jobs; we were able to make the economy grow in all sectors — in industry, agriculture, at sea, in fisheries, in exports, in tourism. The fact is that from there more than 200 000 jobs have already been created and the active population has increased. That is to say, I am talking about facts, I am saying that the firmness of this government in the application of hard measures and that much has caused everyone to suffer, that they have not given in to facilitations and, at the same time, have carried out the reforms that had to be made, have led to this outcome: the country, today, is in clear recovery. In fact, I find recognition of this interesting. The Left Block itself, when presenting this bill, intelligently—and there « I shoot his hat », refers to comparison rates not reporting them to 2011, at the beginning of the governance of this government, but to 2009 and 2010. The Left Block knew perfectly well that, from 2011 to here, in our governance, the values were different and therefore it is helpful to make the negative comparisons, of such disastrous governance and report them to 2009, 2010. I'll give you an example. The Left Block says that if we consider the 2009 poverty threshold, the poverty risk rate is currently 25.9 % and increased by 8 percentage points. Here I would say - you, responding also to an intervention by the Socialist Party, which, when the Socialist Party left the Government in 2011, the risk rate of poverty had already increased to 2006 levels, was not with this Government! It had already increased to levels of five years ago! It was not in 2012 or 2013, it was in 2011, when the PS left, that the poverty risk rate declined to 2006 levels. Further, says the Left Block that there was an increase of 3, 3 percentage points compared to 2010 and 4, 5 percentage points respectively. Reporting to when? to the period of governance of the Socialist Party, not to ours. Intelligently, always run away from it. It further says, according to the INE, the rate of poverty intensity, which measures the lack of resources of the population at risk of poverty, was 30, 3 % in 2013, an increase of 2, 9 percentage points compared to 2012 and 7, 1 percentage points compared to 2010. The Left Block well knows that the rate of worsening the risk of poverty increased in the time of the Socialist Party more than 5%. He didn't go with this government, he went with the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] In fact, I would say that when we arrived at the government in 2011 and we caught the country in the situation in which it was, the unemployment rate had declined 14 years, i.e. at 1998 levels — it was not with us, it was with the Socialist Party! — the investment in 2011 had taken 19 years, i.e. at 1992 levels — it was not with us, it was with the Socialist Party! — ; emigration had taken 44 years, i.e. at 1967 levels, it was not with us, it was with the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u143	And the Left Block, intelligently, I repeat, systematically avoids mentioning these numbers, because it knows they do not take advantage of it, because it cannot throw the tragedy situation in which the country was in, since it was the exclusive responsibility of those who preceded us! We had the courage to catch on a boat that was abandoned by others, left to drift and half sunk and took the necessary steps to recover it, to put it to float and sail again. I would say more: there is a lot of talk about the Gini Index. The Gini Index in 2013 was equal to 2011. They're going to see the numbers. They are clear, they are written and, more than that, 2013 was the peak of the crisis. Our conviction—we still have no numbers, the year 2015 has not ended and the 2014 numbers have not been published—is that, of course, with the recovery of employment and the reduction of unemployment, in 2014 levels and indices will already be better than those in 2013. This means that we have recovered the country and the Portuguese know very well what it was these four years. I conclude by saying this: in a period of great crisis, of great sacrifice, of great rigour, it is clear that there are always those who suffer. There are measures we would like to have taken and it was impossible because the social state lives to have balanced accounts—and without balanced accounts, without financial strike, there can be no social state—but we hope that in the next legislature we are already in a position to deepen the social state, improve and consolidate what we have done now in an emergency state and we have the conviction that the Portuguese will have to look at whom they have ruled for four years and always managed to keep their word, honored what they have committed themselves, fulfilled what they said and verified, before the Portuguese, exactly what they said would be their governance and the results of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u144	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Portuguese will have the notion and awareness that, just as we have accomplished in the last four years, in the next four we will meet in the country's recovery. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u146	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, Mr Artur Rêgo, Portugal has fewer than 300 000 employees, more than 300 000 people have emigrated, we have more than 400 000 poor people, but there is indeed a difference. It is that when the Socialist Party was in the government and passed the cut in the family allowance, the CDS was against, but today it is living well with that court and is not available to restore what was cut; on the contrary, it has worsened. When, in the previous Government, the condition of resources that excluded thousands of people from social support—the CIS (a solidarity complement for the elderly), the support against poverty, scholarships— was discussed, the CDS was against, but the only thing it has done since it reached the government was to worsen what was included in the resource condition, which means that more people are to be excluded from support against poverty, social income for inclusion or solidarity for the elderly. in fact, you speak in the social emergency and the Social Emergency Programme, but the only thing that they have done—it has already been said—was to turn the social emergency into a business. Today, a family of four receives 374 € of support, but the government transfers more money to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) to give them the social canteen, which means that you like to praise the charity made by the privates and are horrified by autonomy and emancipation in the fight against poverty. Even when they feel sorry for the misery—when they do not deny it, as Mr President said, that the country is well, could not be better—when they are confronted with concrete proposals, such as those we are here today proposing and discussing, such as the increase in the minimum wage or the guarantee that no poor family is left without water and light, why are they against, why do they not support these proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u148	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u149	I'm done, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what have you done to the young people you promised internships? What you did at the end of 2014 was a maneuver to reduce the internship period from 12 to 9 months. What was the effect? To prevent these young people from having access to unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u150	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u151	What we are discussing today is whether or not young trainees should have access to unemployment benefit and what we propose is that they should have access to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u152	Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u153	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have an opportunity to repair some of the injustices you have done. Let's take advantage of it! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u154	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We wanted to have an opportunity to ask Mr Artur Rêgo of the CDS-PP, but, as usual, they have wasted time. So we have no right to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u156	Give me time! Give me 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u157	Mr. Member, only if the CFP gives up time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u158	There is no credit for giving the CDS-PP, Mr President. The PSD and in particular the CDS-PP reported returning to the situation. Mr Artur Rêgo said that there is a decrease in the unemployment rate, but there is a graph with INE data that is very revealing, since it demonstrates how the CDS and PSD solve the problem of unemployment: with emigration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u159	If you really want an answer, give me 10 seconds that I answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u160	Recently published INE data indicate that in 2014 alone more than 134 000 Portuguese have emigrated. Not even in the 1960s there was as much emigration as now! It was more than half a million unemployed who emigrated and, if we add to these 160 000 unemployed or 260 000 inactive, who do not count for the statistics but who are unemployed, we realize that unemployment in the Real Country did not decrease anything, as said by the banks of the PSD and the CDS-PP. The CDS bench also said that the government has social sensitivity and points out a fraught with proposals and social measures. Well, if that speech had at least a hint of truth and adherence to reality, then poverty in our country would have to decrease.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u162	What the reality and statistics of the INE say, contrary to what has been said here, is that poverty, with this government, has worsened. PSD and CDS-PP are responsible for the worst worsening of poverty since fascism! I repeat, the worst worsening of poverty since fascism! The PSD and the CDS, following the path that the PS tracked, cut in wages, cut in the reforms and social benefits to those who go hungry, created more and more difficulties for the Portuguese to fill the pockets of the richest in our country. After having infernated the lives of the vast majority of Portuguese people, the PSD/CDS Government announced a solemn commitment to the European Union, which was by chance not mentioned in the intervention of the PSD, nor in the intervention of the CDS. And this commitment means continuing to cut social benefits by 2019, it means cutting more 600 million euros into reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u164	They do not tell the Portuguese because they want to deceive them in the electoral period that is approaching. For PSD and CDS-PP there isn't enough all the bad they've done. If the CDS had time to answer, we would ask: where for the party of taxpayers and the elderly? Where, after all, is the "red line" of the CDS from the limit to cuts in reforms?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u165	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u166	Questions remain unanswered,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u167	Ah, so stay!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u168	... but from here we announce that the CDS and PSD have no limits on cuts in the rights of workers and reformers in our country. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Those who effectively impose limits and move forward with measures that protect their interests are to the large economic groups, it is to the richest. VV. They should be ashamed, because, at the same time as poverty increases, the richest are richer in our country. This is an element that characterizes the policy options of PSD and CDS-PP and should be a target of shame. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] Fortunately, Mr Artur Rêgo — which you are saying is far away — the people will have the opportunity in the elections to give the punishment that the CDS deserves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u169	So, Mr. Deputy challenges me to a duel and then runs out of the camp? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u170	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS-PP do not miss an opportunity to debate the past. They're trying everything to do it. And today, they tried again. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, I have to tell you that the past does not favor you. And I have facts that point to that. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Take it easy! I'll give you two facts. First quarter of 2011 : 9000 jobs destroyed. Last quarter of 2011 — governance of PSD and CDS : 140 000 jobs destroyed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u172	It was thanks to your governance that closed companies in 2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u173	But I have more facts: the ladies and gentlemen. PSD and CDS members can walk where they go that they find no indicator of inequality and poverty that means that we are better now than in 2011! Repeat, no indicator! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, you will not be able to escape the debate of your four years of governance. They won't be able to escape! [[CDS-PP protests.]] So, let's discuss the present and the future, which is what matters to the Portuguese. The Portuguese demand medium- and long-term commitments on fundamental issues, with horizons, with future, and one of them is precisely a strategy to eradicate poverty. The government plan over four years did not result: there is more unemployment, reaching 18%; less incomes; social cohesion problems have worsened. What was the response of the PSD and CDS? Cuts! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u174	And what was the PS response? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u175	The social state was the scapegoat, it was the main liquid payer of the austerity bill that you wanted to implement. We are facing a poverty index never seen in Portugal! The draft deliberation presented by the Socialist Party last week to reinforce Parliament's role in a poverty eradication strategy, together with the social partners, with society, mobilizing all Portuguese, is the way we have to go and we understand that the Left Block initiative represents a contribution to this debate. The Socialist Party will abstain from voting on this left block diploma. And you will abstain precisely because it is a path that must be deepened, Mrs Catarina Martins. And I tell you why: the social partners have to be involved in many of the measures they want to implement. We need social consensus, we need the strength of the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This matter requires strong, comprehensive responses, with horizons, does not sympathize with impulses, with abrasive measures resulting from any impulse of good faith and certainly well motivated by reality;...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u176	The PS is with Syriza's speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u177	... a commitment is needed with Portuguese society in the eradication of poverty. And so questions are very simple. [[BE's protests.]] First, is the Left Block available to pursue a genuine poverty eradication strategy, strengthening Parliament and involving Portuguese society, especially the social partners?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u178	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u179	I will finish, Mr. President. Is the Left Block with the Socialist Party in this poverty eradication strategy, strengthening the role of Parliament and involving the social partners? Yes or no? Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question which represents EUR million less for the Portuguese stock exchanges and which is addressed to the PSD and the CDS, which have committed themselves to Brussels and which have become public to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u180	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u181	We questioned the Government, the PSD and the CDS during the entire afternoon in the Committee on Labour, Social Security and Public Administration, about withdrawing the commitment made with Brussels to cut EUR 600 million in the reforms and pensions in payment. Yes or no? We're still waiting for the answer! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The Portuguese, the retired, the pensioners demand an answer and it can be given here already! Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u182	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u183	I'm done, Mr. President. Last question: less than EUR 100 million in social benefits by 2015 — was a cut announced by the PSD and the CDS and is written in the State budget. Is there going to be that cut or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u184	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u185	Are they going or are they not able to implement any more path of misery? They will not, but at least, have the ethical duty, the minimum of decency to tell the Portuguese that, in fact, they have taken up with Brussels — it is in the State budget — that they will cut 600 million euros in the reforms and pension payments and more than 100 million euros in the social benefits of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u186	For an intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have just attended an intense, lively and important debate on something which is also important. Let me conclude by saying that we are seeing a boyfriend and an understanding that, if, in a more or less discreet way, was present throughout the years of this mandate today, it was quite obvious. The opposition parties are very wrong, because this government has succeeded in honouring its commitments, it has managed, with the help of the Portuguese, to overcome the difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u188	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u189	... and say: « My lords of the troika, they can go away, they are no more precise». We weren't asking, as everyone wanted, no more time and no more money. We honored, met and helped the Portuguese raise their heads! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] More: those who put the country in the real misfortune, who brought unemployment and poverty to the Portuguese, did not learn from the lesson. They didn't learn anything! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And they continue today, as in the past, to say to the Portuguese: «Let's do the same, let's do it again in any way, to promise everyone and in the end come anyone who wants because this country is always in the hands of those who can help us». [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] We are Portuguese, we are proud, we work, we want more and better! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This government did not forget the ones they had, it did not forget the ones they needed, and today all the measures have been mentioned. This time to support those who had less increased, because you created the conditions for the country to go to the bottom,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u190	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u191	...because you've been borrowing and whoever borrows has to pay. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President ( Guilherme Silva ). — Would you like to finish, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u192	A final note, because time does not allow me any more: today we are witnessing an attack on institutions of social solidarity...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u193	A deep attack!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u194	... by classifying that the support these institutions give — because, in partnership with the government, money is transferred to help those who need it most — is futile money, money that does not matter, after all, it is a little shame to give money to these institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these words that are from all Portuguese are delivered by Portuguese who help the Portuguese, giving answers to those who need them most.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u196	Please finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u197	It is with work, it is with effort that we will be able to get this country out of the situation in which it was and, I believe, Portugal and the Portuguese will have a future of hope because it has already begun the way for it to come true. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u198	For an intervention at the end of the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An English poet, about four centuries ago, wrote a poem, which remained for history, about humanity. He said: "No man is an isolated island; every man is a particle of continent, a part of the earth; if a tower is dragged to the sea, Europe is diminished, as if it were a promontory, as if it were the house of your friends or your own; the death of any man is reduced, because I am part of the human race." It is with this humanism that we call all of us today to this debate to remind ourselves that we are all responsible for those whom austerity policy has left behind. And what we heard was not a word of solidarity, it was not a word of understanding, it was not even a word of support by the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups to those who are the victims of their policies, to those who know as well as the cost of austerity in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u200	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u201	The only thing we could ask during almost two hours of debate was: 'How much is it? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And that was exactly the question we asked from the beginning: "How much does it cost? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” How much does it cost to a country so many people in poverty? How much is it worth, after all, to a country that a young person formed the only thing he knows is that he is doomed to precariousness, to an internship and that he is denied the social assistance to which he should be entitled, only because this government does not want to give 12 months of traineeship but 9 months of age, so as not to pay the unemployment benefit? How much does it cost, after all, a family to know that it is cut off from water, gas or electricity because it is not understood that it is difficult to have to pay these bills when everything is accepted to EDP, for example, that it has more than EUR 1000 million of profit? Oh, my God! After all, how much is the lack of solidarity that this majority has to give to families who need to give to whom it did not need, such as EDP, with its millions of profits? Oh, my God! How much does it cost, after all, the lack of response of not 1 cent of social support to those and those who, being too young to have access to a pension, are too old to be able to enter the labour market and have no unemployment benefit, have no access to social unemployment benefit and are without any support from the State, because this majority PSD/CDS of them do not want to occupy themselves, do they not see any urgency? Oh, my God! How much does it cost, after all, to know that there are those who work in our country with a minimum wage and that this minimum wage does not guarantee dignity, does it not guarantee even that the families who receive it leave poverty? Oh, my God! How much does it cost, after all, social cohesion to know that this inequality in the fat country at the same time as unemployment has fired, but they also shot the number of millionaires in our country? Oh, my God! After all, the right doesn't want to know how to pay this misery bill in our country. Do not ask how it costs a country to have this scourge, nor do you want to give any answer to these people. But it was answers that we brought here today. The social emergency law proposed by the Left Block is a law for those and those who cannot expect for tomorrow for urgent answers for today and who do not accept that the Government and this majority only join them with the "morrows singing" in a present of cold and terror. We do not accept that they remain unprotected and that most of them have but a word to beat in their backs to know that then they will try to take advantage of them in any election, and they will certainly never be the priority of this majority. But we know that when the majority tried to honor commitments, it wasn't with those who wanted to get rid of poverty, it wasn't even with those who were supposed to pay the pensions, to whom I had written that I would pay the wages. These were the commitments that the majority failed, year after year, in each State budget. The commitments that the majority has made have been with the finance and with the guarantee that those who live at the expense of the country and above the possibilities of all of us, these will continue to live above our possibilities. The poem of this English poet ends with a reflection and a response to this reflection and this is the peak of humanism. He says, "Therefore don't ask him for whom the bells bend; they bend for you." That is the humanity we bring here today. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] We are these and those by whom the bells bend, because we do not forget who needs us in the country, in Europe, in the world. Call it Lisbon or call it Athens we are here for them and for them! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-17.u202	Mrs. Members, who arrived at the end of the debate on draft law No 994 / XII ( 4. ( a ), asked the services to activate the electronic system to proceed with the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 184 presences, to which are added 4 ( of the members of the PS Fernando Jesus, Elza Pais, Inês de Medeiros and Laurentino Dias ), making 188 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 994 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Social emergency law ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 18, from 15 to 15 hours, and the agenda will be completed with the appreciation of draft resolution No 1533 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures aimed at defending the public, universal and solidarity of social security, adequate financing of the social security system and transparency in the use of its financial resources ( CFP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I should like to remind you that. Members elected by the Electoral Circle of Vila Real will then be in the Clauses, a tasting of wines and products from that region. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 21 minutes.]]
