ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking that the galleries be opened, please. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolution 1507 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Proposes the refusal of the grant of the Youth Pousadas ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and Parliamentary assessment No 139 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 90 / 2015 of 29 May 2015 approving the Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( CFP ). The Bureau also included a report from the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication on the resumption of Mr. Artur Jorge da Silva Machado's term of office in the electoral circle of Porto, ending Maria de Lurdes Monteiro Ribeiro, pursuant to Article 6 (1) and (2). that of the Statute of Members, with effect from 9 June, including, being the opinion that the resumed mandate of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our agenda, which consists of the joint debate by marking the PSD of several legislative initiatives under the theme « Agenda for the Child ». The proposals of lein. 338 / XII will be discussed together in general ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the General Scheme of the Civil Protection Process, 339 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo, approved by Law No 147 / 99 of 1 September and 340 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code and approves the Legal Rules of the Adoption Process and Bill No 975 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Article 1905 is amended. the Civil Code and Article 989. the Civil Procedure Code, improving the diet in case of older or emancipated children ( PS ) in conjunction with draft resolution No 1505 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government some measures to be taken in amending the Act regulating the Child and Youth Protection Committees as well as in amending the legal regulations contained in the Civil Code relating to the adoption and establishment of a Legal Scheme for the Adoption Process ( PS ). The Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor to submit the bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: because of their vulnerability, children and young people have specific and special rights within the protection established in human rights. The European society, which has gained certain values, which has been exemplary in defining and achieving certain levels of well-being, establishing a framework of ethical, social, cultural and political values, has increased responsibility in the present and increased responsibility for the future. Portugal integrates this European family, this photograph of values and this civilizational heritage. In May 2012 the Government set up the Working Group on the Child's Agenda to evaluate the operational, functional and legal mechanisms for the protection of children's rights. It was a group of experts who, after an exhaustive reflection, were set up in Resolution No 37 / 2013 of 11 June 2013 of the Council of Ministers. It was a resolution that created two committees for the review of existing legislation on the system for the promotion and protection of children and young people and on the legal regime for adoption. In both committees, representatives of the Ministries of Justice, Education, Health, Internal Administration and of course Solidarity, Employment and Social Security participated. The Ombudsman's Office, the Centre for Judicial Studies, the Higher Council of Magistrates, the Center for Family Law, the Institute of Registers and Notary, as well as individuals of recognized merit in the areas of Law, Psychology and Psychoanalysis have made their contribution. Representatives of the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk, the Institute for Social Security, the Directorate-General for Health and the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon. They also included representatives of the social economy: the CNIS, the Union of Portuguese Mercy and the Union of Mutualities. The two committees were coordinated by two Deputy Attorney Generals, Dr. Francisco Maia Neto and Dr. Lucília Franco Gago. To all, to the entities, to the personalities, to all those who were involved in this process, which I exalt, I thank the delivery, the work and the special sensitivity they have to deal with these issues. All this commitment, of all these people, of all these entities, throughout all this time, has enabled us to achieve solid proposals, with quality and to always serve the best interests of the child. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the child, often, the cement of this natural and fundamental element for society that is the family. We know that it is in the family that their natural environment for growth must always be privileged. But we know that not always can be so and that there are more fragile situations that should make us equal other options. The breakdown of the family nucleus and even of neighbouring relationships, as a basic support of social and emotional development, caused changes in the exercise of family functions. The destructuring of many families and other phenomena requires a state intervention that ensures, firstly, the well-being and best interests of children. These situations lead the State to seek complementary solutions for the care of children outside the family. The best interests of the child must be the guiding criterion for all policies and deserve the right primacy, irrespective of economic circumstances, cultural or social circumstances which Europe and its Member States go through. in this context, this early government prioritized this issue and considered it necessary to make improvements in the system, thus determining the opening of a debate aimed at reviewing the system of promotion and protection of children and young people and the legal regime of adoption.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u5	Mr Minister, I apologize for interrupting you, but the Bureau has some difficulty listening to you because there is a lot of noise in the Chamber. I'm sorry, but there can't be so much noise in the room. I would therefore ask the honourable Members. Members who created the conditions for us to continue our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u6	Thank you, Madam President. After more than ten years of the approval of the diplomas that gave shape to these two themes, and in the face of new phenomena and new problems, the mechanisms provided for in the law had to be adapted. In 2013, for each child in conditions of adoption, there were four families waiting, i.e., we had 471 children in a situation of adoption for about 1990 families. In 2014, the proportion was significantly the same. There are families who wait for more than three years, wrapped up in a bureaucratic web of encounters and encounters. There are children, for whom the time is especially heavy, for whom the expectation can never be defrauded, who hope and despair more than three years. We would therefore like to move forward with the revision of the legal regime for adoption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendments we have introduced have always had a number of concerns: there are too many children who wait too long to be adopted and too many families who wait too long to adopt. And that is why we make a three-pillar reform: the child is the center of reform; shortening deadlines is the method of reform; supporting and simplifying the lives of families who want to adopt is the axis of reform. We therefore aimed to improve their mechanisms. The existing legislation is dispersed by various diplomas; the specialization of technical teams can be improved; there are visible gaps in the prior consent process; and there is excessive bureaucracy and the time it consumes is too much dilated. To date, a family expects, on average, three years back and forth, to invest in a relationship with the roles instead of investing in a relationship of affections with the future family member. With this process, it despairs the child to be adopted. Thus, we did a deep study, listening to a wide range of entities and personalities. It was also with its contributions that we made with the reform of the adoption system, so that it would be faster, so that it would not last, preferably more than 12 months in the course of the process. We then created a single diploma with a new nomenclature: Legal regime of the Adoption Process. This is something simpler and more direct without, however, neglecting the necessary requirement of the process. With the definition of specific deadlines and the definition of a time line of the process that can be followed but, above all, that can bring greater predictability and information to those involved. Also in this sense, we want and we will have a process of adoption in which families who start a candidacy know perfectly all the steps that they will be going through and that they will be regularly informed, no later than three months, about what is going on. This notion is particularly important. The Portuguese society needs to know better the adoption mechanisms, needs to be further clarified, so that it is even more available to adopt children who are already in the host system and who need a family to protect them. We know that generosity is a striking feature of adoptive families and we are sure that with information, training and follow-up — now provided for by law — a greater number of children may be entitled to an adoptive home. With this new law, the State will be better able to help these families, but above all, it will be more qualified for them to give a home to these children. That is also why we want families to have access, on a quarterly basis, throughout the adoption process to the point where their case is, when, today, difficultly, they have information over time and, of course, often become desperate. We want and will have a mandatory preparation at two times and with different methodologies. We will have a specialization of the teams of preparation, evaluation and selection of candidates and children, which will allow, for example, the study of child characterization to not exceed 30 days, the preparation, evaluation and selection of candidates to adopters to go no further than 6 months, the decision on the proposal to forward a child to the adopter family does not exceed 15 days and that, in its entirety, being well instructed and made the connection between family and child, the maximum administrative period of a adoption process does not exceed 12 months. The decrease in time is always important. Ensure that administrative processes go from three years, on average, to one year will be fundamental and this time reduction objective will always be for the benefit of the child. According to the reflection made by the experts and also by the opinion of those who have the practice of the field and the experience that is fundamental, these deadlines do not in any way undermine the rigour in the evaluation of candidates, do not in any way weaken the quality of the procedures and do not undermine the safety and standards of demand that we will always have to maintain in such a sensitive process as this. So we focus more on what useless bureaucracy is. That's what we want to fight. We want the agileization of the prior consent mechanisms to be a reality that can happen on the very day on which it is requested and that it is definitive and not subject to expiry. And since we know that adoption does not end with the end of the bureaucratic process, we wanted to institute follow-up after adoption as an optional remedy, but sure that it will be a support that many adoptive families claimed. And because it clearly has no use — we simply see the numbers — we have chosen to eliminate the modalities of judicial confidence and restricted adoption. All these changes will bring improvements to the system and processes, but in view of greater success in the pre- adoption period, we considered it very important to introduce an adjustment phase, enabling the verification of the needs of the child and the abilities of the adopters. And in order to make progress in ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on adoption, which advocates access to origins as a right of adopters, we will now proceed with the recognition of the right to knowledge of the origins of the new legislative version. With this initiative, we are now moving towards greater support for the adopters and greater monitoring of their origins. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all these changes also lead to the deepening of a partnership relationship that we have been creating with the social institutions, because we want to extend their intervention in the adoption process, in particular by ensuring, indeed, the application of a principle of subsidiarity and the effect that may have on the real and proximity monitoring of both children and families. At the same time, all these changes require a reconfiguration and strengthening of the tasks of the central authority, especially with regard to international adoption, so that the central authority has greater autonomy with the integration of supervisory aspects, with more favourable cooperation mechanisms, while at the same time ensuring compliance with international standards. To have a notion, in 2013 and 2014 10 children were adopted from abroad and 27 were adopted abroad. It is precisely so that this international reality can also be equated that we also want to strengthen the responsibilities already assumed. For a country such as Portugal, an effective member and a dynamic member of the CPLP, this issue is of particular relevance so that the best interests of the child can always be served, regardless of nationality. In short, we want to have a more unburocratized adoption, with processes possibly less than one year and with guarantees of preservation of the best interests of the child. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because we know that, often enough, there is still a lot to do, we have chosen, on the side of the promotion and protection systems, also to make improvements. This amendment stems not only from the revision of the Protection of Children and Youth Act in Perigo, which we are discussing today, but also from the amendment to the diploma of the protection committees for children and young people at risk and its national commission, which has been approved in general by the Council of Ministers. We identified that the articulation between the different entities in the first stage of intervention in the prevention of situations of danger was insufficient. We have identified that there is an excessive fragmentation of the geographical areas of intervention of the committees themselves, which makes it difficult to organize processes. But above all, we pointed out that the law, in the current regime, by not setting a time limit for the implementation of promotion and protection measures, postpones the realization of a viable, timely and appropriate life project for the child. The intervention time must always respect the time of the child. To achieve these objectives, we have set a broader scope. We point out that, on behalf of the national committee itself, of the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Young People at Risk, we are moving forward to the national committee for the promotion of the rights and protection of children and young people. Promotion for us also to take preventive action on the rights of children and young people. This is a change that seeks to mirror the deepening that we want for the functional structure of the committee, so that it is more professionalized, with better answers and greater dedication, focused on the processes that deal with, so that it becomes more decentralized, also resorting to the figure of regional coordinators, with a view to monitoring proximity and a more specific intervention. It is a change that seeks to expand the tasks of the national committee so that there is greater coordination in a national strategy for the child, but above all a change that brings greater administrative autonomy to the committees and that may even have a budget to move forward with proper management to their needs, which are also the needs of children and young people in Portugal. We also established the principle of terms for each child a single process and for each process a single manager. We avoid contradictions, avoid differences of opinion, which are paid with the increase of entropy on the child who effectively needs to find a solution. We have established that, up to six years of age, preference should be given to family care to the detriment of reception in an institution. And so that in this area too it is possible to deburocratize and simplify procedures, it was established the possibility of regulating parental responsibilities to be agreed in the same process of promotion and protection of children. There is no need for a new process to take place in parallel and so conflicts are resolved more quickly and even the deterioration of the family situation itself is avoided. And, with regard to intra-family sexual abuse, the responsibility of the committees will pass to the Family and Minor Courts in order to overcome the barriers with which the committees themselves are facing today, when they do not have the consent of the parents or those who have the custody of the children in order to be able to act. The judicial process and the protection process are developing in a single instance. in the process of institutionalization of children and young people we want there to be more control and evaluation so that these processes are not protected indefinitely and so that other measures can be taken more expeditiously, including those related to the first steps, with a view to a process of adoption or responses in the natural environment of life that favour the project of life of the child itself and the young. Thus, we will be able to guarantee the protection of the child in a timely manner, while at the same time agitating the process. We define that the role of the CPCJ (Child and Youth Protection Committee) should be exercised on a full-time and effective basis and, in order for there to be the real possibility of strengthening its interventions, we have changed the law so that the possibility of the national committee can be admitted to protocol with entities of the support technical community, at the same time as it is possible to set up inter-municipal committees. In short, we expect greater control of the evolution of the measures applied to these children and that, through a six-monthly evaluation, we achieve a better and, above all, a faster solution in the institutional environment, in the family environment or in the natural environment of life. This will be achieved through a bet that has been followed by CPCJ reinforcement...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u7	Must be laughing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u8	... and that it complements these amendments now introduced, in particular because we are showing them the need for teams to be interinstitutional and interdisciplinary, by strengthening the number of hours of social security technicians, education, health and by developing a programme for the prevention and training of vulnerable families, as we call for positive parenthood and which is already advancing in the Portugal 2020 programme and which is intended to develop actions that promote effective action among families in situations of social vulnerability. in Portugal 2020 there is an amount of EUR 12, EUR 6 million for this specific purpose, which is divided into EUR 3, EUR 5 million for the training of CPCJ technicians and EUR 9, EUR 1 million for the qualification of institutional support for children and young people through this measure. Strengthening the qualifications of our CPCJs is essential in order to ensure improved technical assistance, in order to ensure the protection and promotion of the rights of children and young people even better and in which I assure you that we will go even further. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But we also want to have as a complementary and specialized response a strengthening of the family support and parental counseling centres, those centres that effectively help families, preventively, to solve many of their difficulties, many of their conflicts. We want them to reach 700 families, and therefore we have concluded 16 cooperation agreements so that this first-line response, especially in the districts where the procedural volume of CPCJs is higher, especially Lisbon and Setúbal, is present. And by the end of the year, we will be able to further strengthen the coverage of this response. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that these amendments will help to tackle many of the problems that these children and families face today. For us, it may even seem like obstacles, some bureaucratic, but for children and families it is life stories that we will be improving. I know that they will be used to create conditions so that the future of many children, now exposed to exclusion phenomena, can be effectively better. I also know that they will allow real families that long ago have this dream of adopting and giving love to a child without the webs of bureaucracy to hinder that genuine act. on our part, and since the theme requires a permanent dedication to the individual and collective level, we will continue to follow the path always with these objectives. I imagine, and I hope, that we can also count on the other Members of this House so that we can walk together in that direction. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u9	Mr Minister, you have signed up to ask you questions. Members Carla Rodrigues, PSD, Cecília Honorio, BE, José Luís Ferreira, de Os Verdes, Antonio Filipe, do PCP, Inês Teotónio Pereira, do CDS-PP, João Figueiredo, do PSD, and Rita Rato, do PCP. In the meantime, the Minister has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. Mrs. Carla Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs Members, today is a historic day in the lives of many Portuguese families and is therefore a historic day in the life of this Parliament. The Government is seeking, by means of a proposal for a law, to introduce a profound reform into the adoption regime. I imagine the joy of so many Portuguese families, of so many institutions, of so many people, of so many parliamentarians who over many years have worked to make this reform see the light of the day. I would like to acknowledge the effort and work of all who have contributed to this reform possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u12	Above all, I imagine the transformations that this law can operate in the lives of so many children who continue institutionalized waiting for a family. Once again, Madam President, this Parliament is legislating for Portuguese families, and that is a huge satisfaction for this Parliamentary Group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u13	More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister about the prior consent. The Government's initiative is now under discussion clarifying the extreme urgency of the provision of prior consent, which is realized in the express forecast of the agenda for the day itself on which it is required — I repeat, for the day itself on which it is required. Article 35 is indeed provided for. that of the new legal regime of the adoption process which, upon receipt of the request, the judge immediately appoints time for the provision of the consent, which takes place on the day itself or, if such is not possible in the shortest possible time in the presence of the persons who are to provide it and the Public Prosecutor. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u14	This is, in our view, a mountain change which needs to be highlighted and highlighted. We know that these proposals resulted in a work carried out within the committee appointed by the Government, in charge of reviewing the legal regime of adoption, which was coordinated by Deputy Attorney General Dr. Lucília Gago, who came to be heard in that same quality in 1. the Commission, within the framework of Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 87 / 2014, with a view to adopting public policies for the promotion of birth, protection of children and support for families. We know that this Commission has participated in a number of academic and professional entities and personalities whose experience and intervention in the field of adoption are unclear, which has enabled them to find legislative solutions that best respond to the existing reality. I welcome these personalities and the valuable contribution they have made to ensure that this legislation is discussed here today. in this context, I ask Mr Minister : what was the diagnosis of the prior consent that justifies the proposed legislative amendments? I would also ask you to explain to this Parliament the virtualities, in particular, of the amendments made with regard to prior consent. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u15	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u16	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, I begin by complimenting you. Mr. Minister spoke about the child at the centre of all reforms. This debate is subordinate to the theme 'Agenda for the Child' and I would like to remind you, Minister, what your inheritance is: one in three children is at risk of poverty today and, even more serious, if we talk about single-parent families or who live in unemployment situations. As you well know, you cut the income in social benefits, cut the income in social income of insertion, as well as in family allowance. instead of other countries in crisis situations, this government was exempt from cutting social benefits. Family social benefits are around 0, 7% of GDP, rather than the standard of the euro area — 1, 3 %. After this observation, I would like to ask you, Minister, if you do not think that the policies of this government are a real anti-child and anti- youth agenda in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u17	Today we know the report of the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk, which has very worrying data on the increase, in particular, of bullying, serious indiscipline and the worsening of exposure of children and young people to domestic violence. I will remind you that we live a school without resources, uninteresting for children and young people, considered a vessel where knowledge is cleared for further examinations. With regard to the objective data of this report, I wanted to ask you if you think you have all the legitimacy to come to speak of the child as a real subject of rights...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u18	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry, but I have to interrupt. There's a lot of noise in the room, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. If the noise does not go down, I will have to suspend the session for some time until we resume the conditions that allow us to listen to the speakers. Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask the Minister whether he considers that, with all legitimacy, he can speak of the child as a real subject of rights. Finally, Mr Minister, a proposal for this Government's programme is the Child's Statute on page 65, which has never happened. But since, finally, the campaign's propaganda generals have begun, I ask you whether you will also be caught in the Child's Statute as a pledge of the coalition. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u20	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has scheduled for today the evaluation of three government bills on children, the first to have the General System of the Cable Protection Process approved, the second to amend the Child and Youth Protection Act in Danger and the third on the Legal Regime of the Adoption Process. They are, therefore, important matters that should be of greatest importance to us, even because the guarantee of the rights of protection and the care necessary for the integral development of children are not only imperatives of a constitutional nature but also commitments made by Portugal at the international level, with the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted in June 1990. But this concern of the PSD and also of the government around the rights of the child ends up placing our greatest reservations. And why? The reason is simple. When, in March last, therefore, less than two months ago, we discussed in the plenary of this House of the Republic the need to strengthen the means for the Child and Youth Protection Committees at Risk, the PSD and the CDS-PP came to say that it was all right, that there was no need for any reinforcement and that the current government had done a lot of work in this area. It was therefore all going through the thousand wonders and that was, in fact, the reason why the PSD and the CDS were leading the opposition proposals, which meant, exactly, guaranteeing the material and human conditions for the effective fulfilment of the responsibilities and work of the Child and Youth Protection Committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u22	Not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u23	If this were not the case, it would not be understood why the PSD and the CDS voted against these opposition proposals. It follows that, two weeks later, the parties of the majority, the same ones who said it was all right, presented a legislative initiative to recommend to the Government measures to strengthen support for children. In other words, the parties of the majority, two weeks later, came forward with proposals that went exactly towards those that most had plummeted two weeks before, on the proposal of the opposition. That is, in March, for the parties of the majority, it was all right and the opposition's proposals went down; at the beginning of April, after all, it was no longer so well, they presented a recommendation to the Government; then they finally scheduled the government's proposals for discussion at the beginning of June. In fact, it is difficult to understand so much inconsistencies. We can work hard, but we will hardly understand such incoherence! Mr Minister, we know that if it were not the work and effort of the local authorities, many of the Child and Youth Protection Commissions at Risk have been working for a long time now, because the government is always looking aside to everything that is social.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u24	It even seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u25	We already knew that this government was very bad with the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u26	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u27	This is nothing new to anyone! Mr President, you certainly have not been sleeping for these four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u28	Who went to sleep was Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u29	This government is very ill-accompanied not only with the social state but also with our constitution. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen didn't go to sleep and you know that perfectly. We already knew it and there are others who, by the way, are knowing it now. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u30	Mr Minister, the Government's proposal aims to make a thorough review of the matter relating to the provision of State support for the functioning of the Protection Committees. What I would like to know is whether the problem of State support for the Protection Committees is a legislative problem, which is resolved by decree, or if it is a problem of means, a problem of government options, because it is important to know, for example, whether the problem is no longer in the new criteria that the Government has imposed for the provision of representatives and technicians in support of the Protection Committees than any legislative amendment. Or, in other words, Mr Minister, and to conclude, because I am already out of time, the government cannot guarantee the full functioning of the Child and Youth Protection Commissions at Risk.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u31	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u32	Everybody gets it, except for the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority! This seems clear to everyone. The question is why, and that is what I wanted the Minister to tell us. The Government is not ensuring the full functioning of these committees by choice or by any limitation of a legislative nature. And if it is because of any legislative limitation, it would be good, Mr Minister, to tell us, after all, what are these limitations that prevent the government from ensuring the full functioning of the Child and Youth Protection Commissions at Risk. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u33	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the time available for speakers' speeches is due in the overall time allocated to parliamentary groups, but I ask them not to exceed the time of questions too much in order to be able to better distribute the debate time. I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question I wanted to raise at the beginning of this debate is a procedural matter, but for us it is important. Of course, these proposals refer to an extremely important matter. We do not deny the relevance and importance of this matter, from which we consider it very important that this House of the Republic should have the opportunity to have an in-depth discussion of these three bills, which are substantive and material. In fact, the Government even refers to this when considering, in the preamble to these bills, the need to be heard by the governing bodies of the autonomous regions — which, of course, takes their time — the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Ombudsman's Office, the Superior Council of the Magistracy, the National Association of Municipalities, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions, the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the Union of Portuguese Mutualities. These are those which the Government considers essential to be heard by the Assembly of the Republic. What is not understood is that, in view of the importance of this legislative process, the Government is presenting these initiatives, knowing that the Assembly of the Republic has little more than one month to be able to work. But there's worse. It is that the Government, at the beginning of May 2012, created a Working Group on the Child's Agenda, which presented reports. The CFP Parliamentary Group, exactly in June 2013 two years ago, requested the Government to provide the Assembly with the reports produced by that Working Group, because they were mentioned precisely in the 2013 Council of Ministers resolution, which is also mentioned here in the preambles to these legislative initiatives. Therefore, these reports were prepared, existed and were cited in 2013, precisely two years ago. The 2013 Council of Ministers resolution created two committees whose reports had a period of 180 days to be made, which means that at the beginning of 2014 these reports should exist and the Government in June 2015, i.e. two years after they had been required by the CFP, and one and a half years after having the reports of the committees which it had set up under the June 2013 Council of Ministers resolution, the Government presents three legislative initiatives without giving itself the task of giving the Assembly one of these reports to be prepared many months ago. We can therefore not fail to criticize the Government at this time because of the absence of working conditions, for the lack of cooperation with the Assembly of the Republic so that this sovereignty body can give this legislative process the attention that must be given and that cannot fail to be given. for our part, we will have the greatest commitment to this legislative process, but we are very sorry that the Government has practically boycotted the conditions so that the Assembly of the Republic can take a careful look at these matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u35	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u36	Madam President, in addition to complimenting the ladies and gentlemen. Members and members of the Government, I would like to commend the Government for this diploma, which reflects the realization of a highly detected need to simplify and speed up the adoption regime, always focusing on the interests of the child as a matter of priority. But, Minister, my questions are focused on the diploma that we are also discussing here today on the reformulation of the CPCJs. And in this regard, I wanted to take advantage to make a reference of the most elementary justice to Mr.Judge Counsellor Armando Leandro, for the difficult task he has undertaken for so long, with an admirable energy and delivery capacity and for being unquestionably a guardian of the rights of the child. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr Minister, on the CPCJ, I would like to ask you about the revision that is being made, of the organization, operation and competence of the National Commission and its consequent decentralization. On this subject, the debate has essentially focused on requalification at least in the Assembly of the Republic. however, this matter has already been duly and thoroughly clarified. My question is about real and concrete problems that have been raised and detected by all those who work directly in this area and the subjects are, therefore, much more comprehensive and fundamental than those who have dominated the debate here. The fact is that it is necessary, in order to improve and ensure the proper functioning and effectiveness of CPCJs, that several amendments are implemented, i.e. that they are more professional, decentralized and autonomous, that the mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating the processes are strengthened in order to ensure their speed and effectiveness, that procedures are simplified and that the National Commission sees their tasks expanded, in particular in the possibility of carrying out a national strategy of the child. Of course, there is also a need for an increase in medium- and short-term technical reinforcement, but this strengthening must be consistent and must accompany the new structure of operation of CPCJs, i.e. a focused and directed reinforcement, allowing, above all, the qualification and professionalization of technicians. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you to what extent the amendments tabled here will respond to these identified and consensual needs. Speaking in the strategy of protection of children and young people, we consider and always consider that it is essential that all intervention be made primarily within the family. In other words, it is necessary to work with families and not only with children or young people, in order to bet on prevention through the training of their own families, both biological ones and those of follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u38	That is why we see with optimism the commitment that this government has made in strengthening the CAFAP (Family Support and Parental Counselling Centre ) and in the prevalence of family reception to the detriment of the institution, in particular with children from 0 to 6 years old. On this point, I asked you what coverage at national level, as well as what investment the government is making, and it still wants to do, with regard to interventions within families. Finally, I would like to stress another measure, which is the option of transferring competence to CPCJs in relation to intra-family sexual abuse for family judges and minors. It really seems to us that this is really one of the most important changes that we can highlight in this diploma and on that I wanted to ask you to finally specify how this transfer will be made. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u39	Mr Figueiredo has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, as Mr Minister said this afternoon, we also argue that the child, or the minor, by representing the future, will always be a central place in society. And we argue that it must be within the family that children and young people must develop, acquire skills and, above all, references to a balanced adult life. however, we all know that, unfortunately, it is not always so. We therefore want to highlight the committed and responsible walk that the government has also done on this matter. From the outset, I remember the creation in 2012 of the Working Group for the Child Agenda, which has worked on many subjects that are under discussion. Many times, when the Minister came to this House, he was asked why there were no answers and, above all, no proposals on this matter. Because they are here and are not reports, they are concrete, effective bills and, above all, they advocate a significant advance in these matters. Of course, in the case of adoption, either by condensing in a single degree all the rules governing — obviously excluding the rules relating to the Civil Code — or by establishing the National Validation Council, which introduces in the adoption process an increased responsibility of the technical teams, providing better decisions in the adoption, either by the innovation introduced by the proposal for a law on the general regime of the regulatory process as regards guiding principles and, above all, as regards the processing of the processes, by introducing greater speed, agility and effectiveness in the resolution of the conflicts suffered by children. Mr Minister, I would like to focus my questions, in particular, on the proposal for a law amending the Child and Youth Protection Act at Risk. at the same time that we have highlighted a little bit throughout the country the role played by the child and youth protection committees, allow me, Mr Minister, to put the following questions to you: this legislative amendment promoting the autonomy of the committees, broadening their duties, comes or does it not respond to the constraints of some protection committees? In the area of prevention and repair, collaboration between all local actors is of utmost importance. Mr Minister, does this amendment come or not, and how does it strengthen this collaboration between committees and the community, including municipalities and local social networks? Aware that the effective promotion of children's rights and the guarantee of their protection require intervention, the Government has developed the Positive Parentality, prevention and training programme for families in a more vulnerable situation, in order to ensure possible risk situations for children. Mr Minister, I conclude by asking the following: is the legislation now under discussion not itself a facilitating element in the implementation of this important programme? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u41	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u42	Mr President, Minister, the bills currently under discussion concerning the adoption regime, the protection of children and the civil protection regime do not refer to a single word for the human and material conditions of application of the law. That is to say, the Government which has withdrawn technical from the multidisciplinary teams to support the courts is the same thing as these proposals impose greater speed, speed and effectiveness in the treatment of proceedings, including the adoption and regulation of the exercise of parental responsibilities. We can therefore conclude, Mr Minister, that the easiest thing is the government, late, at no time and without instructing the legislative procedures, as its obligation is, to amend the law. More difficult, because it has no will to do, it is to ensure the number of appropriate professionals in social security, in teams at the courts to ensure full compliance with the law. This is not what the government wants to do, because this necessarily requires another view of the role of the State and its social functions. Mr Minister, I would like to take advantage of two specific questions. One has to do with the fact that the government has been saying — and has done so in the initial intervention — the need to favour family reception. In principle, we follow this idea. But, Minister, what has come to us from families is the failure of social security to pay what is necessary for host families. So we have faced the government with concrete situations, I saw the question to the Government No 1118 / XII of 2. the Legislative Session on the non-compliance of the law with the rights of host families. It is because, Minister, the easiest thing is to "throw the hot potato" on top of others, the most difficult is to create effective conditions for welcoming and safeguarding the interests of children. Another specific question which we want to raise here concerns the law of civil protection and what has come to the Assembly of the Republic with regard to the system of parental responsibilities and the diploma we have discussed here today has nothing to do with this. When parents fail to meet the payment of the food pension and social security, through the Food Guarantee Fund due to minors, it is obliged to overcome this lack, what has happened is that social security has been resorting whenever the court decides to impose the payment of more than the amount fixed by the debtor. If, due to economic incapacity, it is fixed to families, for example, €50 and if the court decides that it is €80, social security always resorts to this decision. Mr Minister, tell us where you are concerned about the best interests of children. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u43	The Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions. To Mrs Carla Rodrigues, I must say that, for us, the essential thing is to protect the best interests of the child. That is exactly why we know that a lot of bureaucracy must be taken away, a lot of bureaucratic burden, a set of processes in the process of adoption, but also a set of other matters that have direct links with it, such as, for example, the Child Protection Organization. That is exactly why specialists, people who are in the courts every day and who are effectively aware of these processes, especially prosecutor Maia Neto and prosecutor Lucília Gago, who coordinated a very large set of personalities who wanted to make contributions on this matter, have made a suggestion that seems very relevant to us. One of the issues that today effectively hinders the adoption process, namely the ability of a child to be able to be able to adopt, is the fact that prior consent is often not provided before the judge but in writing and can be revoked later, often blocking the proceedings. Many of the processes we know and which unfortunately take many years and drag over time have as their cause this factor. That's exactly why we changed that rule. The prior consent is given before the judge only once, not being subject to expiry and being a process of extreme urgency, and may even, if necessary, be provided on the day on which it is required. With a matter like this, what we are doing is trying to unlock a set of difficulties that the processes have today, which helps a lot to make this link faster. That is what all leaders should be concerned about when they talk about this at this time. If we have many children waiting for an adoption process, if we have many families who want to adopt and wait long, we effectively have to do everything we can to unlock this process and ensure that children can be in a family more quickly, as they should. We have also reduced the written instruction in our own processes, such as, in fact, already done in relation to other judicial codes, because we realize that often this written intervention powers up to conflict, which, of course, we do not want. We want to ensure that each child attends one, and only one, process and that each process has one, and only one, manager. Simplifying this part of the legislation may also lead to more children in terms of adoption, which certainly gives them a project of life within a family and often, well, outside an institution. Mrs Cecilia Honorio, on the first part of her speech, could respond by referring to the contribution that social benefits have made to combating poverty and exclusion. If you notice, in view of the 2013 data cited by the honourable Member, there has been a very significant strengthening of the contribution of social benefits, which means that there is a social dimension of the State that is very important to these people. I could also remind you that it was this government that, for example, made the increase in unemployment allowance for unemployed couples with children in charge of them, which is certainly very important with regard to this matter so relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u45	You forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u46	But, Mrs Deputy, I want to appreciate what is being discussed here and that is why there is one point, that of the CPCJs, that I would like to discuss with you. Mrs De Clercq spoke of the CPCJ report which has been published today and which I think is very curious. It is true that in 2014 we had more processes established in CPCJs, i.e. the CPCJs could look at more situations. We have more processes that come from the past and more processes that are reopened, therefore, of course, the overall process has increased, but, curiously, the number of processes that CPCJs have been able to close, resolve, to give a response to families has increased with meaning, which makes the number of processes that are active, that is, the number of children and young people that CPCJs have to accompany, has decreased. And that, Mrs. Member, of course it is good news, is a sign that CPCJs are doing their part well. However, Mrs Deputies, we are those who think that we need to go further in this matter. We are discussing it carefully, but we understand that it is, in fact, necessary to go further. Administrative and financial autonomy must be ensured, in particular to the national committee which protects the CPCJ itself. in this sense, in order to answer specifically, it is necessary for the committee itself to have the coordination of the child's strategy, because it is very important to us. But it is also necessary, Mrs Cecilia Honorio and also Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens, to strengthen the qualifications of technicians and to strengthen the qualification of the response. That is precisely why we highlight in the next Community framework EUR 3, EUR 5 million for the technical training of CPCJs and EUR 9, EUR 1 million for the qualification and institutional support for children and young people, which is, in fact, very relevant to us. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I would also like to stress that, in the transfer that social security makes to the authorities, which also have legitimately, an essential participation in the CPCJ itself, which must be interdisciplinary, must have a set of different entities,, between 2010 and 2014, there was a reinforcement of 8, 9 % to ensure intervention capacity, which is also reflected in the figures. The numbers are not essential to us, but today we realize that CPCJs are, in fact, more capable of intervention. With regard to Mr António Filipe's questions, which I would like to congratulate, I would like to draw your attention to the following: the initiatives we have brought here have been very debated and participated. Only to have a notion, Mr. Member, there were 102 meetings between technicians and entities and I could add one more, which is public, which was the one that took place within the framework of 1. the Commission, where a group of officials came to debate with the ladies and gentlemen. Members of this House. We are talking about more than 24 entities involved in this process. The honourable Member mentioned a number of entities that have already been consulted in the debate. Obviously, it is always legitimate for the Assembly of the Republic to require such entities to be heard, but what is important to say is that these entities participated in all these discussions. And we have heard many personalities, Mr. Member : Judge Armando Leandro, who has been quoted today, and well, Dr. Rui do Carmo, Dr. Paulo Guerra, Dr. Luís Villas-Boas, a set of entities that have effectively helped us to ensure that this diploma, in this debate that went further than we wanted, had consistency and consensus among all these entities that every day deal with these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u47	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u48	I request only one minute of tolerance, Madam President. With regard to Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira's question, I would like to say that, for us, the entities that pre-work with children, with families, the so-called CAFAP (family support centres and parental counseling) are essential. We want to increase, and much more, the intervention on the ground of the CAFAPs. That is why, very recently, we have made 16 cooperation agreements, especially in places where CPCJs have a greater number of processes, especially in urban areas. With regard to sexual abuse within the family, we understand that, in view of the seriousness of the offence, in view of the seriousness of these crimes, they should be assessed in a court rather than in the CPCJ. Mrs Rita Rato, I would like to assure you of something that seems very important to me: the technical teams have, in fact, to be with the courts and even within the courts if we can do so. That is exactly why they have to be more specialized and focused on hearing — that is what we want to do — by qualifying people, having indeed technicians who are specialists and not technicians who come from other areas. Madam President, I thank you for your tolerance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u49	To present the PS initiatives, time will be distributed by Members Idália Salvador Serrão and Isabel Alves Moreira. Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 'Building a child-friendly society' — were words given yesterday by the Prime Minister in the presentation of the intentions with which he will ask the Portuguese to vote in the forthcoming legislative elections. But a government that claims to be concerned about children does not reduce the family allowance, does not send to poverty single-parent families with children of all ages, does not argue until the exhaustion that the solution for families is in the increase of the unemployment allowance for couples in whom they are both unemployed, as if it were the only panacea and so resigns. We now know that one of the few government flags in terms of protecting and improving the living conditions of families with children, so often proclaimed by their leaders, which is the increase in unemployment benefit to couples with children, covered only 6187 unemployed couples throughout 2013. Very little, when we know, according to IEFP data ( Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ), that only in December 2013 were more than 315 000 couples in which both elements were unemployed and that most would certainly have children in charge. That is to say, this government has created a measure that increases the unemployment benefit of all — I repeat, all — unemployed couples with children, but that is not true. The measure is attributed only to those couples in which they are both at the same time receiving unemployment benefit. This means a coverage of less than 10 % of unemployed couples with children. But they talk like they're all covered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Friends of the children are said, but since they are government cut the family allowance to 95 000 children — between December 2011, in which they were already government, and April 2015. It is less than EUR 40 million in family allowances. Only in January of this year, they cut the family allowance to 42,000 children and young people, when compared to the previous month. Moreover, this Government has led to the proposals of the Socialist Party for the State Budget for 2015, which consisted in updating the value of frozen family allowance benefits throughout the period in which they were government. The Socialist Party also proposes the increase in family allowance allocated to single-parent families by 15 percentage points. This proposal was also rejected by the majority. This government is said to be friends of families and children, but it continues to want to ignore that in 2013 about 19, 5 % of Portuguese were at risk of poverty. Only in 2003 and prior years had there been a higher risk of poverty in Portugal than in 2013. Portugal is witnessing a 10-year-old retreat and cannot be resigned! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Children and young people are the population group most affected by the measures, or by the absence of measures, of this government. In 2013 alone, about 470,000 children and young people were at risk of poverty. There has been at least a decade when the risk of poverty in children was not so high. It is also found that single-parent families are at greatest risk of poverty; more than 38% of children living only with their mother or father are at risk of poverty, are two in five Portuguese children. « We are only going to get out of this situation by impoverishing it in relative terms and even absolute terms », said Passos Coelho, on 25 October 2011. It is confirmed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: we are impoverished in relative terms and in absolute terms. We must remember that all the changes and cuts introduced by the Government in the social benefits of solidarity over these four years have been of the sole initiative of this Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There was no such measure in the initial memorandum signed with the troika, which you so much like to mention. Today, we know that the thousands of Portuguese who lost social support to combat poverty are those to whom Passos Coelho referred when he said that the government would go beyond the troika. In addition to the troika, in force and with conviction—this was the result, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] A government that claims to be so concerned about birth does not forget children who have already been born and who need the protection of the Portuguese State. You can't forget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! What the Government has done to these children over the past four years has been withdrawing the capacity of the services to protect them, helping to further exacerbate their exclusion and perpetuating the cycles of poverty, of which on the initiative of this Government will hardly come out. Only a government with a speech inconsistent with government practice weakens the protection system of children and young people as it has weakened in the last four years, withdrawing selected technicians and specifically admitted to the child and youth protection committees and putting them into general social security services. of the 153 technicians admitted in 2010 only 34 remain. It sent for technical retraining with years of knowledge and practice, some chaired the protection committees, but this did not bother the government ; it reduced the times of stay in the committees representing the services of origin, it gave instructions for the strengthening of the committees to be done with the placement of another strengthening technician from 300 active processes, giving the same technician the superhuman responsibility to manage 500 processes, but it found this natural! Not so, My Ladies and Gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] A government concerned and committed to the rights of children does not present such significant legislative proposals giving Members four working days to be able to appreciate and vote on them. It is not possible to make an in-depth and thoughtful analysis of these proposals of such great importance for the promotion of children's rights in just four days! The Minister, in his speeches, referred to a number of people and entities who made their contribution. They were important, of course. We register and respect your contribution. However, there are a number of questions we want to ask you, Minister. What was the involvement of the Academy in the construction of the diploma presented to us by the Government? What experts did you contribute? Where are the reports? Where can we consult them? What have they said about these proposals that bring us here the Superior Council of the Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Data Protection Commission, the Advocates' Order, among other entities that should be heard? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Minister, the debate around these matters must be serious, exhaustive, consensual and involve, without exception, all those who work daily and at the most different levels with this reality. But the Government does not want it to be so and, at the end of the cycle, at the end of the legislature, the Government intends to do what it has not been able in four years, In this whole process there are questions which the government cannot leave without answer. I will mention, Mr Minister, just a few, and I would ask you once again for clear, concise and objective answers. in changing the protection law that they now propose to us, why refer the concept of the child's best interest to the continuity of quality and significant affect relationships? We assume that it is the will of the Government, we assume that it is done without a scientific basis, which leaves much to be desired, Minister. Let's imagine a practical case. A woman of fertile age who has just given birth to a motherhood is involved in an absurd but not improbable situation of abduction of her newborn child. It's dramatic! The investigation is developed, the child is located one, two, three or four years after birth. He made the entire process of binding his raptor and, according to the amendment that the Government is now presenting in Article 4 ( a ). this child meets the conditions to stay with the raptor, with whom he may have continuously developed significant quality affection relationships, thus not returning to his parents. There is a need for a set of questions. Minister, if they were our children? If they were our grandchildren? It will be the government or the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen aware of the serious mistake they are making? Mr Minister, we should not want to apply to others what we would never allow to see applied to ours. With the addition of Article 13. o -A, under the heading « Access to sensitive personal data », who will be able, after all, to access the data of children with active processes? The process manager? The human resources of entities represented in the enlarged committee which can exceptionally support the activity of the restricted committee as proposed in Article 20. o -A? And what did the National Data Protection Commission say about this amendment? Or rather, Mr Minister, tell us: did you forget to refer to the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission in the rush to the end of the cycle of these legislative proposals? If you send them back, show us how you feel, please. That's what we asked him to do. And on what basis does the Government propose a new measure to promote rights and protection, creating the family host figure for adoption? They will not be the government, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority mixing completely different concepts and profiles, at serious risk for child adoption solutions? Is this how they want to speed up the process? Mr. Minister here brought adoption data that are too simple accounts, which appeal, in fact, to the feelings of those who hear him. I would say that they are a little populist, because, Minister, you can change names, you can shorten deadlines, redefine procedures, change concepts, but the actual problem of adoption lies in the will of candidates to adopt children up to three years old, white, without brothers, without diseases and without disabilities and of that will not be compatible with the characteristics of children in situations of adoption, mostly over six years old, with a large incidence of adolescents, integrated in fraternal, non-Caucasian, chronic or disabled diseases. So, Minister, there is something else you did not mention here and you did not even understand: is that the principle of adoption is only one, that of finding a candidate for the child and not a child for any candidate. And if the Government, Mr Minister, does not once again place the human resources it has withdrawn from the committees, if it continues to weaken the teams accompanying the implementation of the measures and support for families, as it has done during these four years, if it continues to look in a reduced way at prenatal support only as a cash benefit and not as a preventive instrument accompanying pregnancy since the first weeks of pregnancy and which signals any danger situations at the time of the birth of the child, allowing to intervene in a timely manner, if the Government does not intervene in an agile, qualified and assertive way, if it does not continue to develop actions to raise awareness and train candidates for adoption, then, little or nothing will be necessary to make legislative changes, which, in some cases, we know, are necessary. Mr Minister, it is in this context that the Socialist Party comes forward with a new draft resolution. Mr Minister, we would still like to hear about something else and tell you something that has been a point of honor among all political forces. over the years there has always been a great concern that the protective committees of children and young people could never be partisanized and you, with the creation of regional coordinators, are opening doors for the partisanization of child and youth protection committees. And that, Minister, is not admissible. But the PS comes to the debate with a new draft resolution which contains some recommendations to the Government: that it be sensible and prudent in the changes to be introduced in the protection system; that it recognises that the changes to be introduced require a broad debate and social and political consensus; that it should follow up the changes it proposes with the indication of the financial impacts and their budgetary framework by those generated; that the universe of children to be covered; that the resources to be allocated and the time to be allocated for the beginning and end of the programmes and actions to be developed; that the fulfilment of the effective higher interest of the child is always, but always, at the centre of the intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u51	As announced by the President, the presentation of the PS initiatives will be shared between Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão and Mrs Isabel Alves Moreira. That being the case, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law under discussion aims to amend Article 1905. the Civil Code and Article 989. the Civil Procedure Code. As the Portuguese Association of Legal Women points out well, in a suggestion of legislative amendment which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes, we must respond to a particular question concerning the current system of exercise of parental responsibilities. This question concerns the regime which disproportionately penalises women who are mothers of older children and are divorced or separated from their parents. It is common today that, even after they reach 18 years of age, the children continue to live in the home of the parent, with whom they lived all their childhood and adolescence and that in most cases is the mother. It has been found with special incidence that the obligation to feed young children ceases, in practice, with its majority and it is up to them, in order to avoid this, to try a special action against the father. This special procedure must prove that vocational education and training has not yet been completed and that it is reasonable to require compliance with that obligation for the time normally required for this training to be completed. As children reside with mothers, in fact, they take on the care and training required. Experience demonstrates a reality to which we cannot turn our backs. The well-founded fear of older children, especially when domestic violence has occurred or occurs, leads them not to attempt food action. Even when they do so, the decree of proceedings implies, due to the delay of justice, the deprivation of the right to education and vocational training. As a result, there is also an obvious inequality between the children of married or de facto parents and the children of divorced or separated couples. The proposed legislative amendment is in line with the solution received in France, faced with exactly the same situation, safeguarding, within the framework of the diet agreement of the parents in the event of divorce, separation or annulment of the marriage, the situation of older children or emancipated children who continue to pursue their studies and vocational training and, on the other hand, conferring active procedural legitimacy on the parent, who is responsible for paying the main expenses of the adult child in order to promote the legal sharing of such expenses with the other parent. We cannot fail to approve this legislative amendment as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u53	The Bureau does not register entries for requests for clarification but registers an application for inclusion by the PSD for an intervention. Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor then.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u54	Mr President, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Mr. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : Future — Here is what is being discussed today in this plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. The people we represent affirm that the future is children. And repeat it wise and constantly when you look at a child; repeat it when you feel disappointed in your own time; repeat it when you are distressed with the future of your children. The future is children. Let us therefore take care of the future. Mr President, for three years the Portuguese have experienced a financial, economic and social emergency. The development model applied so far has failed, the country has entered pre-banking and has seen itself in contingencies in asking for financial and economic aid. For three years, the Portuguese were forced to live with the troika. For three years, the Portuguese made sacrifices. For three years, the Portuguese, led by a given government, have redeemed their future.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u55	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u56	Today, the Portuguese look, not without worries, at their future with more confidence — a prudent trust; a confidence given to them by a growing economy and a scourge to be reduced, unemployment; a prudent confidence based on results and not on promises of tomorrow without sacrifices. That's the past, that's the bankruptcy, that's the losing everything. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, during these four years, in all areas of government, but in particular in those most directly dealing with children, there was a cross-cutting concern for all of them: not leaving any child behind. We couldn't fail and we didn't fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u57	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u58	in education, we invested in a school for all; in this budget, we strengthened the social action school in 4, 2 %; we increased the participation of textbooks and school materials for the third consecutive year; we promoted the scholarships of school textbooks in schools. On the other hand, the School Food Strengthening Program provides breakfast to about 5000 students with economic difficulties. in health, the government recently decided to include in the National Plan of Vaccination to Prevent ; priority was given to pregnant women in the allocation of family physician; the infant mortality rate dropped from 3, 1 per 1000 in 2011 to 2, 8 per 1000 in 2014 ; children up to 18 years were exempt from moderate rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u60	in social security, the change to the law of day care has contributed to the increase of 19,000 vacancies and the unemployment allowance for unemployed couples with dependent children has increased. Madam President, the proof of our genuine concern with children is that, despite the 12 assessments of the troika we had to carry out, despite the acute economic problems we faced, despite a political agenda constantly marked by financial affairs, the Social Democratic Party, in the face of one's perplexity and irony of others, placed children, families and births as its political priority at its congress in February 2014. There Prof. Joaquim Azevedo was asked to lead an enlarged committee with the clear aim of proposing a policy for the promotion of birth. The work was fruitful and resulted in the presentation of the report By a Portugal friend of children, families and birth( 2015 - 2035 ) : remove the obstacles to the desired birth. This work was not just a diagnostic report anymore. It presented concrete measures and some of them have even been immediately implemented in the State Budget this year. in the parliamentary context, as is the knowledge of all Members and of all Members. Members have opened up the possibility of a wide debate on how to deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth. The 12 committees, without exception and with the commitment of all parliamentary groups, prepared their reports by hearing many dozens of entities, personalities and experts from very diverse institutions. All parliamentary groups had more elements to be able to think about and outline their proposals on the subject, which resulted in a debate in the sitting room itself, where 38 legislative initiatives were under discussion. Action is urgent, because this problem seriously compromises the generational renewal, social cohesion, the sustainability of social security, health, education, economic and financial systems and the settlement of the territory. We believe that, with all our difficulties, with all our differences and with all our sensitivities, we have already made a first contribution to putting children, families and births on the political agenda in Portugal. The cause of children, families and births must unite us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in one of their draft resolutions on birth, the parties of the majority recommend to the Government measures to strengthen support for children and the family. Among other things, they propose strengthening the role of social sector institutions in the prevention of risk situations with children and young people, the possibility of setting up inter-municipal protection committees, the introduction of stronger mechanisms of greater speed, agility and effectiveness in resolving conflicts of parental responsibilities, as well as the revision of the current legislative framework on adoption, in order to unburcratize and expedite processes, making them simpler, clearer and more rapid. Well, the three legislative proposals that the Government brings to this legislative agenda come to the meeting of what was recommended in the resolution just mentioned. We must not fail to point out that the proposed laws, tabled by the Government and already explained here by the Minister, were the subject of a deep debate that promoted the participation of a group of academic and professional entities and personalities who brought important multidisciplinary and interinstitutional contributions. The Government established, through Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 37 / 2013 of 11 June, following the conclusions submitted by the Working Group on the Child Agenda, two committees within the framework of the Ministry of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security : a commission with the aim of revising Decree-Law No 185 / 93 of 22 May, approving the new legal regime for adoption and a commission with the aim of revising the Decree-Law of the Child Protection Organization, the Decree-Law establishing the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth in Risk and the Child and Youth Protection Act in Perigo. The work carried out by these two committees stems from the three bills under discussion today. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that the work done by these committees, which it has already said, with the involvement of many academic and professional entities that have brought a multidisciplinary vision, ensures that the legislation now under consideration was duly weighted, analyzed and debated before being discussed in this plenary. Mr President, the three bills before us today bring us some amendments that we want to underline, some of which have already been invoked and explained by the Minister. Thus, with regard to the new General Scheme of the Cable Protection Process, which repeals the current Child Protection Organization, it highlights the definition of new principles, in particular, the principles of educational simplification and orality, which favour the use of simplified forms, in particular the oral statement, the principle of consensualization, which calls for the use of specialized technical hearing and / or mediation for the resolution of parental conflicts and the principle of hearing of the child — this one translated into the express consecration of the right of the child to be heard on the decisions that concern him, and his opinion taken into account by the court in determining his best interest. in Bill No. 339 / XII ( 4. a ) intensifies the level of compliance of the entities that integrate the protection committees of children and young people with reflections on the composition and operationalization of their restricted modality; densifies the status of the commissioner and enables the establishment of inter-municipal commissions; highlights the profound revision of the financial support of the State to CPCJs, subject to clarification, density and expansion in the logistical and financial aspects, which is ensured on the first line by the municipality, as well as an innovative mechanism that enables the completion of human resources difficulties, through the conclusion of protocols by the national CPCJ with the entities of origin represented in the extended commission, which affect technical support to restricted protection committees. As regards the new legal regime of the adoption process, the new legal regime shall bring together in a single law all the regulatory acquis regulating adoption, of course with the exception of substantive rules provided for in the Civil Code. We applaud this option which facilitates consultation by professionals in the area and, more importantly, makes the adoption regime more accessible and understandable to citizens in general. Among the proposed innovations are, among other things, the changes in prior consent, focusing on the irreversibility of the latter and clarifying the urgency in its performance, realized in the express forecast of the schedule for the day itself on which it is required; the clear identification of the different phases of the adoption process; the recognition of the right of persons adopted to knowledge of their origins, allowing them access to their biological family background; the creation of the National Validation Council, will have as its main allocation to validate the proposals for referral submitted by the adoption teams, thus ensuring the harmonisation of the criteria used and the reduction of the margin of subjectivity of decisions; the institution of post-adoption that expressly depends on the adoptive family and that it translates into a technical intervention with the adopted and their respective family, providing advice and support for overcoming difficulties arising from membership and adoptive parentalities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, in a week when the World Day of the Child is celebrated, we believe that this « package» of Agenda for the Child, presented by the Government, goes on the right path, because it puts the child and his best interest at the centre of everything. As the future is for children and as this package aims to give children a better future, we sincerely hope that, on behalf of the national interest, all parties will be able to combine around these proposals, so that they will leave Parliament's consensual laws on this matter, because all efforts count and all efforts are never too much when children are involved. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u61	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to leave some notes on the bills that we are discussing today, although we do not have the opinions and all the time it required the evaluation of them. In any case, we recognize that, in relation to the new regime of the civil proceedings, there are positive aspects, particularly with regard to the reduction of written instruction, the valorisation of oral statements, among others, but we point out that, when the explanation of reasons is so advantageous about the need to protect children from long distances, as to the psychological consequences, and not only in the face of marital rupture and domestic violence, we do not believe that the answers are the most adjusted. Firstly, due to doubts about the human resources necessary for the rapid response proposed here and, secondly, because of some lack of clarity regarding the protection of children and young people in the context of domestic violence. The suspension of visits is still a true exception, so we will insist on our proposal, i.e., whenever a coercion or penalty measure is decreed to prohibit contact between the children's parents, it must be suspended or restricted and subject to mediation of any arrangements of visits. As regards the proposal for a law on the protection of children and young people at risk, let us say that it makes updates more timely than structural and does not respond to two blockades of the regime: firstly, on the question of consent and, secondly, on the question of the means necessary to the committees. from our point of view, the consent of abusive parents must end where the child's best interest begins and in the case of the proposed law we are discussing today is to recognize that Article 9. it ends up reinforcing the question of the weight of consent by assigning to the committees the responsibility to ‘make a pair of boots’ — excuse me for the expression — even if one parent is obliged to care for the child and it is necessary to go looking for the other. I think this is a very serious discussion, it has been a blocking factor and deserves a more consistent proposal with the demands of intervention. On the other hand, what we recognize and have seen as a constant fact is the lack of resources from the protection committees of children and young people at risk to respond to a lot of things, including the need to monitor the measures. This must be done consistently and it does not seem to us that the forecast made in Article 20a is the right answer, since it provides that, exceptionally and because of a lack of means, the national committee can protocol with the bodies represented in the committees the allocation of technicians. I would like to acknowledge that this Government is the same one that has brought about a large part of the technical resources of these same committees and, on our part, we recognize that every precautionary measure that reaches the right port can be a way to correct a brutal injustice owed to the Minister. As far as the new legal regime of the adoption process is concerned, I would also like to acknowledge, firstly, that many people are excluded from this scheme, that same-sex couples are still excluded from this possibility. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u63	There are positive aspects, as the regulatory acquis is all condensed in the diploma, consent is irrevocable, end the restricted adoption, and there are other matters that we safeguard as advances. however, I leave some concerns. IPSS and other non-profit entities may intervene in adoption processes. The network is very open, it is called to this particular authorized entities and, in our view, it corresponds to a transfer of competences and obligations from the State to the IPSS, seeking the possibility of privatizing these competences, which, in our view, is not acceptable. in Article 43. the, on application for adoption, disappears the maximum time limit for the application evaluation process, which is today of six months. This is not acceptable, and it is, of course, a correction to be made. in Article 49. the, about the transition period, place as maximum time of knowledge and approach of the child to adopt the said 15 days. In fact, the realities are many, but it is not in 15 days that a child aged 7 or 8 or a pre-adolescent meets the conditions to prepare for a new home and a new family that has just met. in Article 62. the, on international adoption, the principle of subsidiarity is a good principle, protects children, but there is a need for a deadline, because otherwise what will happen is that these children never enter the list of international adoption. On the other hand, we again enter the universe of mediating entities. There are two recognised entities in Portugal today and we believe that this potential proliferation of moderators is also a risk of privatization of this function. We know it's a good deal in other parts of the world and we didn't want this to happen in our country. It is still absolutely necessary to create a specific visa for adoption, because, as you well know, today these children are subject to a tourist visa that has to be renewed, which is absolutely unacceptable and creates unacceptable contingencies for these families. These are at least some of the notes that we hope may, in the debate, accept the favourable opinion or at least be taken into account, because they are relevant aspects to be discussed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u64	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Portugal, only after the April 1974 Revolution, with the legal conquest and consecration of a solid body of economic and social rights, began the way of building and guaranteeing the rights of children, in their multiple dimensions and cross-sectional manner. The Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child was proclaimed by the United Nations on 20 September 1959 and 20 years ago was celebrated the International Year of the Child. However, only in 1989 with the adoption by the UN of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Portugal the following year, is that the child has become considered a full citizen. In accordance with Article 69 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. the State and society are responsible for protecting children « with a view to their full development », in particular against all « forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression ». All children should be guaranteed the right to protection and special care, the right to love and affection, respect for their own identity, the right to difference and social dignity, the right to be desired, physical integrity, adequate food, clothing, housing, health, safety, education and education. Despite the existence of fundamental rights in the form of law, the daily life of thousands of children in our country is now marked by multiple forms of denial of rights, violence and discrimination. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, successive governments, and in particular the current PSD/CDS government, have deepened a path of deresponsibility of the State in guaranteeing the rights of children. The non-guarantee of the human resources appropriate to the functioning of the Child and Youth Protection Committees and the option, this proposal for a law, to establish protocols and collaborations with IPSS represents a perverse path, which may call into question the existence of a public, universal system, with intervention methodologies that guarantee equality and specificity necessary for monitoring each situation. The bills currently under discussion, relating to the adoption, protection of children and the protection of children, do not have a single word for the human and material conditions of law enforcement. The Government which has withdrawn technical from the multidisciplinary teams to support the courts, sending them to requalification, is the same Government which, in these proposals, imposes greater speed, agility and effectiveness in the treatment of, inter alia, the adoption and regulation of the exercise of parental responsibilities. Mr Minister, we would like to put here concerns about the proposed law on the Child and Youth Protection Committees for which we believe it is important to have an answer in the field of expertise, in particular Article 19. the new 20. o -A, about the perverseness they create. There is the obligation of the eight hours of service, articulated to impose the provision of minimum time, in particular with the provision of punishment by the Public Prosecutor in the event of non-compliance. So far it seems good to us, but soon Article 20. o -A creates the escape and ensures protocols with IPSS for the creation of the technical body. Another aspect that we believe to be important, and in a context of constitution of mega groupings, is that, in the case of education, the participation of teachers is ensured, also taking into account the large number of students in each of the groups. Even with regard to Article 68. the, we alert here to what can mean overload of the courts. Up until now, after 18 months, the trial is closed. This bill provides that, after 18 months, the procedure will be sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office for supervision. This measure may seem to us to be positive, but with the exception that there should be effective audits and supervision so that the courts would not need to be overloaded. With regard to paragraph 6, we want to warn of the perversity that may constitute for larger committees the need for collaboration with commissions with fewer cases. It would probably be important to limit the period of collaboration if it was not to constitute, with its own autonomy, the committees with smaller processes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the CFP, the fight for the full realization of the rights of children is inseparable from the struggle for the defence of public services of quality and social functions of the State, including social security, and here we reiterate the fundamental importance of the Government fulfilling a legal obligation to ensure all necessary human and technical means. from the PCP, our commitment is that the best interests of the child are effectively respected in everyday life and not only in government discourse. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u67	Mr President, Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These diplomas, focused on the child and, of course, on the family, deserve us all special relief and care. More: they deserve a debate that is serene and constructive. It is the child who is in the center and these changes can, and they will certainly make the difference. It is a debate that does not run away from difficulties, quite the contrary, recognises them, studies them, looks at them and now presents results. And it presents results with rigour and responsibility. It is extraordinary to hear the Socialist Party today, in this House, by the voice of MP Idália Serão, say what, indeed, we have heard, with total no sense of responsibility in relation to the situation in which the Socialist Party left the country in 2011. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u68	You think, Mrs. Member, the pre-banking state...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u69	There's a decency, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u70	Haha, haha! That's what's missing you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u71	... where he left the country in 2011, is he a friend of families and children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u73	And now the consequences of this in terms of decision-making autonomy and rationalization, even resources, for the absence of money, Mrs Deputies? Oh, my God! There were 300 million, at the time, in the state vaults and the state was unable to fulfil the social obligations that Mrs Deputy now comes here to defend! I don't even want to talk about the baby check, Mrs. Member, but now I ask you, and I ask you to remind this House, if in 2010 it wasn't the PS that ended with the family allowance in the 4th. o is 5. The steps, about half a million Portuguese? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] And also remember, now, Mrs. Member, who put the increase in unemployment benefit in the drawer! I was not going to refer to your draft resolution, but, after all that I have heard, I will have to make a little reference to it, because it seems to me that you have just not fully understood what is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u74	O Mrs. Deputy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u75	The draft resolution states that the best interest of the child « is not affected by a generic and vague standard as contained in Bill No 339 / XII, which provides that the intervention of CPCJs depends on the continuity of relations of affection and significant quality ». The only thing I want to say to you here is that it seems to me that the Socialist Party is doing a reduced interpretation here. The intention that effectively presides over this rule has to do with the recognition of something, so that, in fact, it has brought us to the attention of the Institute of Child Support, which has to do with the allocation of legal value to affective ties, in fact. Curiously, and now deserves this reference, even as it is dissonant with the tone with which I am responding, Mrs. Isabel Moreira, we are sensitive to what the Socialist Party here proposes, until somehow rehabilitates a proposal heard in 1. the Commission, of the Portuguese Association of Legal Women, and of course we will reflect on it, in particular from the point of view of its coherence and systematicity. This is just to say that it will naturally deserve our reflection. Returning to the debate, the child, being younger, enjoys an unquestionable capacity-rule of enjoyment of rights, as we all know, that confronts an unquestionable incapacity-rule of exercise of rights. in this recognition, it is essential to ensure that, during the minority, always having as a lighthouse and guideline, as Mr Minister said, the best interests of the child—and aware, in fact, in accordance with the International Convention here mentioned by Mrs Rita Rato, that the child is not only a future subject of rights, but also a fundamental part of the matters that concern him—, someone assumes the motto of his life, whether in matters of care, education, affections and, also, legal responsibility, which is a huge challenge. in the national legal framework, the institutes we are discussing today are of fundamental importance, imposing, in this exact measure, a careful look, either on the part of the executive, or on the part of the legislator. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no need to circumvent what I will say: the signification of situations of vulnerability and risk that compromise the balanced development of children and young people, the low numbers of children referred to for adoption, the high numbers of institutionalized children, the diversity in the application of the criteria of structuring and evaluation of the life projects of these children and their referral, the functioning of the host institutions, the difficulties evidenced by the committees of protection of children and young people, the difficulties of dialogue and articulation between the various interlocutors involved, among other issues, are, as we all well know, repeatedly referred to, while simultaneously revealing systems that are not well and without corrective intervention. Today, we promote this intervention systematically and responsibly. Focused on the child, there are indeed three cross-sectional concerns that we, too, identify in all the initiatives under discussion, presented by the Government: rationalization, simplification and proximity of both structures and procedures, with a view to ensuring speed, agility and efficiency. in the case of child protection organization, there is a note of continuity, with renewal and innovation. I would like to mention many examples, from the terminology update of concepts to the new civil protection regime itself, focused around the needs of children and families, in my view, with obvious and very positive reflections on the subject, exactly, of the protection of children in the context of domestic violence. It is because, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, Mrs Cecilia, the serious damage potentially suffered by children who are subject to contexts of marital rupture—especially aggravated by domestic violence— usually they do not sympathize, as we perceive, with length of time, either in the process or in the delay of decisions. Focused on the child, it was thus attributed to the principle of simplification, consensualization and also hearing of the child. A final note, which has already been mentioned here, has to do with the sole manager and the simplification and importance that this assumes. in the case of the protection and promotion of children's rights, much has already been said here. I do not think, Mrs Cecilia Honorio, that these amendments are timely, that they are important structural amendments and that they are going to meet, in fact, allow me to say this, from what we heard from the President of the National Committee for the Protection of Children and Youth at Risk in December, at a hearing on 1st. the Commission, in particular with regard to the possibility of the National Commission to conclude protocols concerning the allocation of protection committee support technicians with the origin entities represented in the enlarged Commission, or even with regard to the issue of inter-municipal committees. I'm just gonna leave a final note on adoption. in this legislation, we have stated several times, and I will say it again, that for the CDS it is indisputable that the center of adoption is the child and it is to the child that we have to guarantee the right to be adopted. We always recognize the need to introduce improvements in the laws and practices of adoption that respond to the number of children who, without this rapid response, may be institutionalized. We all know how the adoption process is excessively bureaucratic, with very long waiting times and pre- and post- adoption needs difficult to answer, to mention only a few of the problems. in this recognition, focused on defending the best interests of the child and based on an extensive work that was developed by forum professionals, the government thus presents, in this House, an initiative that represents, in our view, a fundamental step in the promotion and protection of the rights of the child, being, without doubt, an important structural reform, whose effectiveness cannot be removed from the changes of the other diplomas that we are here to discuss. I will conclude by saying that, of course, in the face of the dramas that we recognize in adoption in Portugal, we cannot deny that these realities are complex realities that require capable answers. The proposals under discussion, in our view, go precisely in this direction: centered, grounded and built around the best interests of the child. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u76	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Laranjeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say to Minister Mota Soares that he is still here, because in the Committee on Social Security and Labour for a long time which has not been seen and it seems that he has again postponed his visit to that Commission. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u78	Disappeared in combat!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u79	The Government and the majority today come to Parliament to present the Agenda for the Child, giving it as an important issue. And it's an important issue! But the Government stressing the importance of this matter is the same as it presented its proposals four days ago for a debate of just under four hours, four months of legislative elections and after four years without doing anything. This is the reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u80	It's a fetish with number four!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u81	The government, four months after the end of the term of office, intends to compensate for four years of inaction or, worse, for a policy that has increased the risks to children. Today, one third of the children in Portugal live at risk of poverty. It has increased, as never, in recent years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u82	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u83	It is the same government that announced, at the beginning of the mandate — I am not tired of repeating it, and the Minister reminds himself, a family visa, i.e. all the measures taken by the Council of Ministers would have a stamp, they would have a family visa, given, I presume, by Minister Mota Soares... where that goes! ... so many and so many measures that were against the families, that were against the couples, that were against the children! Yesterday we heard the Prime Minister say that « he wants a more child-friendly society». That's it, we all want! But it is not with these policies and with the policies of the past four years. It is the same government that attacks families, reducing social minimums, which cut several support with direct consequences in the lives of children. It is that the cutting of support has two dimensions: the size of Excel leaf, which is cold and distant, and a concrete dimension, in people, families and children. Today, there are fewer than 95 000 beneficiaries of family allowance than at the beginning of their term of office. This has implications! Today, there are 52,000 children and young people who have been removed from the social income of insertion. This has implications! This is a majority who rejected the increase in family allowance for single-parent families, a majority who rejected the moderate increase in family allowance. We have heard Mrs Teresa Anjinho put on the same scale here — and it is this cold I am talking about — the financial questions and the question of children's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u84	It wasn't me, it was Mrs. Idália Serra!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u85	Then how do they speak in the best interests of children? Don't! More: Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria also said in his speech that children are the future. Well, but before they were the future, they are the present and they were children in the last four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u86	All right! I don't think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u87	It is from this present and future, of course, that we are talking about here. And the weather, unfortunately, doesn't go back. The time of children at risk takes them away from opportunities for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] A country that stands still cannot accept this situation! What happened in the last four years...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u88	He's been paying off debts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u89	... will have human consequences, in the future, for the measures that are being taken and that have been taken by your majority and by the government. The same government that wants this discussion is the one that is destroying the model of social security in Portugal. For the Socialist Party, all institutions are important, are fundamental, are necessary, in a logic of complementarity. This is also the history and matrix of the Socialist Party. We always defend the sharing between State, IPSS, mercy, mutuality, but the State cannot give up its role. What we have witnessed is the weakening and, in some cases, even the annulment of the role of social security as ultimate responsibility for various dimensions, including the protection of children, beginning to ease the responses, as if outsourcing were concerned. There is a social function of the State, of defense of the most vulnerable, which must be ensured. The State is bound to the future of children at risk, their rights, their timely and safe protection. We need a strong and modern state, not a state of resignation. We are talking about the same government that has withdrawn specialized technicians, capable, experienced, social security, many of them affected by child and youth protection committees. And there are, in the country, situations of structures that have been left with no response capacity. We're talking about cuts with dramatic consequences! Any action in this area should be concerned about the prevention and early signage of future problems and this requires specialized, stable and capable teams. The current government has promoted the dramatic reduction of social security technicians, both in social action and in court support teams. If the gentlemen. Members of the CDS and PSD do not believe, just talk to those on the ground, every day, giving their best for the children's future, to understand what we are talking about. Any Agenda for the Child also goes through these issues and not your old majority policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u90	Also for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I no longer have much time and I would like to ask Minister Mota Soares to pay attention to the fact that everything has already been said about the boycott, and I follow the words of the CFP, of the serious work of the House : there is failure in time, there is no reporting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u93	... to which Mr. Minister did not respond. But I wanted to tell you, if you would listen to me,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u94	He's always talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u95	... that we considered that Louis Vilas Good had no conditions to integrate the commission of follow-up to the law of adoption. And this consideration is not due to your political position with regard to adoption by homosexual couples... [[No, what an idea!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u96	...but to the justification he presented for that position. If someone whom Mr. Minister appointed had made a racist or sexist statement, I am sure that Mr. Minister would not let him remain in the committee. If it's homophobia, it's okay! Open... This person said that being a lesbian is not a woman in the natural fullness of her term. This is insulting! As it is, in fact, talking about the false affection of mothers and homosexual parents. [[PSD protests.]] It is inadmissible before Article 13. the Constitution, paragraph 2, and irrespective of the legitimate choice of the Government and of this majority not to adopt a legislative consecration of adoption by couples of the same sex, which will be adopted as soon as the PS wins the elections, because it is already part of its Programme, and therefore this "patent" of family will soon end,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I would say, Mr Minister, that it is unacceptable, Mr Minister, that these statements should be made, that this promotion of homophobia should be given and that the Minister feels that this should be freedom of expression. If it were a statement on racism or a statement on sexism this whole House would be scandalised! I would also like to make a quick reference to a point relating to the right of the adopter to gain access to the knowledge of his or her origins. This is a matter to be considered but, as we believe that the Constitution does not have a biological view of the family, there is a problem of personal identity here, which is undoubtedly enshrined in Article 26. the Constitution, and a right to personal historicity, but this does not necessarily imply the right to know the progeny in cases of adoption or artificial insemination. We therefore believe that the substitute is the right to genetic identity, in the path of our Constitution and in the European Court of Human Rights. I do not have time to raise the other points and I am indeed sorry that this debate has been boycotted by the government itself. [[Congrats from PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u97	For an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr as and Mrs. Members: During this afternoon, we discuss a key theme of society: children and the family. This is a theme that should unite us all, because it is about finding more and better solutions for the effectiveness of children's rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u100	Before I enter the issues of the initiatives presented here, I cannot fail to say that it is with great regret and it is regrettable that the Socialist Party continues not to recognize the reality, not to recognize it and not to assume that it has left the Portuguese with many debts to pay. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I would like to remind you that it is also very unfortunate that we do not see the recognition of what has been done by this government, despite the difficulties. Mr. Miguel Laranjeiro has just said that the government does not care about the most vulnerable, but this government has created a Social Emergency Programme. And do you know who created the social emergency? It was the Socialist Party, it was the Socialist Government! [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Anjinho.]] But I wanted to focus on the issue that is important this afternoon, which is precisely the family and the initiatives under discussion here. Also contrary to what has been said here by the Socialist Party, I would say that these initiatives result in a wide range of work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u102	... a work that has been carried out by two committees, because the government has established the child as a priority. [[PS protests.]] I speak of a work that has been carried out and that has resulted from hearings and contributions by vast entities and personalities. It is therefore also important to say that there has been a wide debate and a broad consensus with people, with institutions that know these realities, who know best and can make contributions in terms of how to improve, what to change and how to change. It is therefore in this sense and as a result of this work that the Government presents to us these important legislative initiatives, which introduce improvements, amendments and even new rules, as regards the Child Protection Organization; the law on the protection of children and young people in danger and the law on adoption. All these initiatives, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have as guiding principle the child—and that is how it should be. It is essential to ensure the well-being of the child and its integral development.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u103	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u104	I would therefore like to say from the outset that, for this bench, it is a pleasure to see the presentation of these initiatives and to see these matters being treated seriously as they are and as they were brought here to the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u105	I would also like to highlight some aspects, although, during the afternoon, some of them have already been widely mentioned here. Of course, with regard to the law on the protection of children and young people in danger, which coordinates the action of the competent authorities in the effective promotion and protection of children and young people, I stress the following aspects: strengthening support for committees; the transfer of competence affects committees, in terms of intra-family sexual abuse, for judges of the family courts and minors; the prevalence of family care—essentially, this prevalence—, to the detriment of institutionalization, in particular for children up to six years of age. with regard to the Child Protection Organization, which, as has already been mentioned here, has had an amendment in its designation, it is important to highlight some aspects, namely three which seem to us, in fact, very relevant that they are again called to the collation. These are the following: the definition of a new role of technical counseling, which is fundamental, because there is greater proximity either to the courts or to the parties and is centered on hearing about parental conflicts; the simplification of the process, with a clear bet on the decrease in written instruction and with a consequent appreciation of oral instruction, which is also a very important change in the proximity that characterizes it; and, still, the definition of a single manager, with the virtualities that have already been presented by Mr Minister. As far as adoption is concerned, it is also important to highlight some measures already mentioned here, and I would like to strengthen: simplification of the process, firstly, which is essential, from the outset, for better knowledge both on the part of technicians and civil society itself, and thus ensuring consistency and transparency in these processes; the definition of concrete deadlines and a time line of the process, which I consider essential, because we all know the current reality of the delays in these processes and the bureaucracy that exist in these adoption processes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u106	As Mr Minister has already said, there are many children who wait too long to be adopted, and there are also families, many, who have waited too long to adopt. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u107	So we have to find a solution and that is the solution that is presented to us here today with the law of adoption. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u108	Speed is required, but always with rigour and always with the best interest of the child as guiding principle of these changes. The child is, and will always be, the center of this reform. The child will always be a central place in society and the best interest of the child is, as I have said, the guiding principle of the initiatives presented here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u109	That is why we are very pleased to see them and to congratulate the Government on it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u110	The Minister for Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, to whom I give the floor, was appointed for an intervention. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of this debate, I would like to begin by thanking the many entities who have contributed, who have participated in this process — the Center for Family Law of the University of Coimbra, the Attorney-General of the Republic, the Ombudsman, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the Order of Portuguese Psychologists, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions ( CNIS ), the Mercy, Mutualities, the Institute for Social Security of the Azores, Madeira, the Centre for Judicial Studies ( CEJ ), the Superior Council of the Magistratura. It was a set of entities that effectively helped, during many meetings and many contributions, to present the diplomas that we bring to the House today. I also want to thank the dozens of personalities, people who work in the field, in social institutions, people who work in state institutions,... [[PS protests.]] ... people who effectively apply the law every day in the judiciary and who have actually made a very important contribution so that today we can bring diplomas which, I thought, deserve a great consensus or, at least, an extended acceptance by parliamentary groups. I think that is what must be valued here today. I could value — but I do not want — the fact that the same party that ended with three steps from the family allowance, which took the family allowance to 564 000 children, more than half a million Portuguese who no longer received the family allowance,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u112	... today, come to say that you are very concerned about the matter of family allowance. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] I could choose to value the fact that the same party that ended with the increase in unemployment allowance for unemployed couples who have dependent children today fill their mouths by saying that, after all, this is only for unemployed people who have dependent children and not others, but I do not want to. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] And I could even try to value ad-manum criticism that doesn't seem to me to take an acceptance on the banks themselves that speak them. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u113	I therefore do not choose to do so, because what I think is absolutely essential in a debate like what we bring here today is one thing: we will focus our concern, our work, on defending the interests of the child. And this certainly has to happen if we can shorten deadlines, as a method, but also to simplify, help, the lives of families who legitimately want, demonstrating an act of love and generosity, adopting a child. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u114	That is why we bring these diplomas, focused, exactly, on the child, but having a process in which families previously know all the steps in which they are accompanied, in which they have information. Therefore, for us, the administrative process cannot, nor should, exceed 12 months; the study, characterization of the child cannot exceed 30 days; the perception and selection of the families to be adopted cannot exceed six months;... [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] ... the decision on the referral procedure may not exceed 15 days, so that, in fact, within 12 months, in a year, the administrative procedure is completed... [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] ... and it is effectively possible to find a family for a child who is to be adopted. And it is essential that, throughout this process, families become accompanied, become informed, because that is exactly how we can work so that we can eventually have more families looking at the issue of adoption. That is why we also know that there is a need for other legislative amendments, such as, for example, in relation to prior consent, which is today a huge difficulty, because, in fact, it makes no sense to lend itself to him without being before a judge and later to revoke him, which makes sense that prior consent, before a process of adoption, is given before a judge — that is what guarantees the legal certainty of this process — but that it is provided once and that it is not subject to revocation or expiry itself. There is also a very significant amendment, which was also highlighted by Mrs Rita Rato, that I would also like to speak here today. We want to strengthen control over measures to promote and protect children. That is exactly why after a maximum period of 18 months is made an evaluation by the Public Ministry, which did not exist in the past and is essential to know, indeed, whether that concrete process, before that child or young person, is working or not. After that period, the Public Prosecutor's Office will have to take a decision. But we also bring another issue that is very important, introducing the possibility of the National Commission to make assessments, audits. It is essential that we understand, in cases where these processes systematically reach the 18 months, because that is what happened. For us, it is also essential to ensure that, in this sense, the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Young People at Risk, which will become known as the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of Children and Youth, chaired by Judge Armando Leandro — whom I once again use to thank all his work — appoints the regional coordinators themselves and, therefore, effectively achieves a much stronger amplitude of intervention on the ground. That's what made us aware and brought here as a law. We are convinced that this diploma has everything to be able, in a fairly broad way, to see its acceptance in this Parliament. Of course, we are available to follow this debate, but I sincerely believe that, if we can quickly close this whole process, it is the future of our children, it is the present of the children who want to be adopted and of the families who want to adopt that will be and will certainly be better. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-04.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there are no more entries, this debate is thus concluded. The PSD Parliamentary Group, as an applicant for this legislative agenda, would have the prerogative to require the vote on the initiatives under discussion. We will resume our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, to which the vote will be followed. The sitting is then closed. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
