ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authority officers opening the galleries. Let us begin our work with the reading of the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the legal regime for retraining workers in public service ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensuring the democratity of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Cooperative Code approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August, ensuring compliance with Article 82. the, paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 41 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the consumption of national products in the supply of public canteens and meals ( PSD / CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the hospital in the county of Seixal ( PCP ), 43 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A25 ( PCP ), 44 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Against the relocation of Triumph International, the safeguarding of all jobs and the fulfilment of workers'rights ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 45 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the financing of specialized artistic music and dance schools to ensure their stability ( CFP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 46 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Abolition of toll rates in A23 ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 47 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Artistic pupils who are impaired in access to higher education without pedagogical or curricular justification ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 48 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen access to primary health care in the Setúbal Peninsula and the construction of Seixal Hospital ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the agenda, which is, at first, a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on the relaunch of the economy: recovery of income and promotion of investment. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: When I presented the Government Programme in this House two weeks ago, I proposed the triple design of the new time we want to start, namely, more growth, better employment and greater equality. As I said, these three designs articulate and reinforce each other and, only when seen as a whole, allow for a healthy and sustainable consolidation of our public finances. It is not surprising, therefore, that the Government has decided to bring the subject of the revival of the economy to this first half-year debate. And let him do so by stressing its dual nature: on the one hand, the recovery of family income; and on the other, the creation of conditions for the promotion of investment. The relaunching of the economy cannot exclude the recovery of family income, which is a priority lever for improving economic activity and creating jobs in the short term. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The recovery of the available income of families integrates a set of clear commitments to initiate the turn of the austerity page. Two of these commitments are being met in this House, with the full replacement in 2016 of salaries due to public servants and the progressive elimination of the overtax of IRS in the next two years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A third compromise, the proposal for an increase in national minimum wage, is under discussion in social consultation. From now on, for the increase to €530, in 2016 and later, for a multi-year agreement until 2019 that ensures the update to €600. I can also announce that the Government will approve this week: updating the value of pensions of the general scheme and the social protection regime; replacing the value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the social income of insertion, reverting the cuts applied since 2010;... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] ... and, moreover, the update of the first three steps of the family allowance With these first income recovery measures, they will see their situation improved: 1, 6 million families, with the reduction of overtax; more than half a million workers, with the increase of national minimum wage; 440 000 Portuguese, with the replacement of social minimums; more than 1 million children, with the increase of family allowance; and 2 million pensions, with their updating. But the aspect of strengthening the income of families does not run out, nor could it exhaust, the strategy of relaunching the economy. In order to address the effects of the crisis and austerity policy and to restore the Portuguese economy, it is also necessary to address the problem of corporate capitalization and investment financing. It is undeniable that Portuguese companies have significant over-indebted imbalances, in particular through bank financing, which, despite corrections over the past few years, still accounts for more than 150 % of gross domestic product ( GDP ). On the other hand, the capitalisation mechanisms are limited in scope, finding a small size of the capital market and an incipient of the risk capital portfolios. Recognizing this funding framework, the Government assumes that it is necessary to build new and effective solutions in order to contribute to the existence of healthier financial structures in Portuguese companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, the Council of Ministers of tomorrow will approve the establishment of a Task Force for the Capitalization of Enterprises, which will integrate persons of recognised competence, who, with the participation of the social partners, will propose to the Government the development of the set of measures contained in our Programme, namely: first, the creation of the Capitalisation Fund for support for enterprise investment, financed by European funds, by raising funds from international investors, and may the State and financial institutions allocate other funds as capital, lending or guarantees, or quasi-capital instruments. Secondly, the strengthening of the role of the capital market in the financing of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), in particular through capital instruments, specialized private debt funds or hybrid instruments, thus reducing the dependence of banking credit. Thirdly, the development of debt-to-capital conversion mechanisms and debt reduction mechanisms in companies considered viable. Finally, in the fiscal field, it is intended to strengthen and ensure greater linkage of investment and company financing support by changing tax treatment and encouraging reinvestment of profits and greater neutrality in the treatment of financing through own capital. The priority to capitalisation and reduction of corporate debt is in itself a contribution to the effort that is needed to restructure and strengthen our banking system, the stability of which is essential to the normal financing of the economy. in this phase and in this context, it is of particular relevance to the objective which I announced during the discussion of the Government's programme, to exceed EUR 100 million effective payments to companies in the first 100 days of this government. in these two weeks, it was already possible to define a set of measures, namely: the advance rules were simplified, reducing the need for coverage of the required bank guarantees and facilitating the way of proof of the start of the project. The advance of the first 10 % of the incentive will thus be made automatic. The joint order has already been approved, which will make available, by the end of the year, the line of guarantees based on the mutual guarantee system. These are guarantees required to raise incentives advances from companies with projects that have already been approved and which were, so far, normally only issued by banks and which may, alternatively, be obtained through the mutual guarantee system. Yesterday, a loan from the European Investment Bank was approved, amounting to EUR 750 million, to finance the national counterpart of the investments supported by Portugal 2020, which will support private investment directly from the banking system and will encourage the acceleration of the implementation of Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This week will also start the series of outreach sessions with a joint initiative with the Portuguese Business Association, where the new rules for flexibility will be made available to entrepreneurs with projects approved under Portugal 2020. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was the agenda for the relaunching of the economy that the Government presented last week to the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue, fulfilling the commitments of its Programme, namely to value the consultation, proposing a medium-term strategic consultation agreement and articulating different areas of governance, economic policies and employment to social policies. The guarantee we left here, that we would value social dialogue at all levels, is already being fulfilled. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u5	We are already working on a medium-term strategic development agenda, which includes 10 diverse thematic areas, and which includes fortnight meetings of the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue, during the first half of next year. We will also enhance social dialogue at sectoral and business level, relaunching and valuing the dynamics of collective bargaining, returning to it the exclusive role in the negotiation of hourly banks and other instruments, and renewing the approval of extension portals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Greater equality and better employment need more growth. So we start here, with these two pillars, which are our priority: to recover the income of families and create the conditions for the investment of companies. This is how we will safely turn to the page of austerity and open a new time of hope for the Portuguese and confidence in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause, standing up, and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u6	To put questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u7	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Dr António Costa, in this first half-year debate in the Assembly of the Republic since the Government took possession, I would like to begin by making a special compliment to the Government. We learned last week that the Council of Ministers gave a chance to have a budget deficit in 2015 of not more than 3 % and preferably less than 3 %. We also learned, after the news that has been published in the bulletins, especially UTAO and Banco de Portugal, that for the first time in 15 years the Portuguese debt trajectory has a declining trend, which means, therefore, that when we take into account the incomplete macro scenario that was presented by the government, or the decisions announced by the Government, we are comfortable knowing that Portugal can, for the first time since it entered the euro, leave the procedure due to excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u8	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u9	The measures which have been announced by the Government are in good current management, i.e. those which have to continue, those which have already been taken: do not de-activate the unnecessary captives, do not authorize new expenditure that is not urgent and ask for restraint that according to the government accounts will amount to EUR 46 million, i.e. 0,026 % of GDP, in order to ensure that the deficit this year can be less than 3 %. Mr Prime Minister, as you know, for the PSD, this is also important for the country, so I would like to congratulate the Government on having this objective as the central objective of economic policy. The country will need a manoeuvring space in Brussels, which should only ensure that this goal is met.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u11	The great reason why we do not yet have the absolute certainty of what is the value to be achieved by this deficit is related to the behaviour of the economy in the last quarter of the year. Depending on this behavior, we could stay below or below 3%. But there is no doubt that the behaviour of the primary current expenditure, of the current expenditure, therefore the one that is discretionary and that it is up to the government to decide, this, until October, showing a behavior below what was estimated for the whole year, which gives, therefore, some margin of confidence that the behavior of the last quarter may, however, not question the goal of the deficit. I would like to congratulate the Government on doing so too, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is already in a position to put forward to Parliament what will essentially be the draft budget which, according to public news, should be referred to the European Commission by the end of this month. I am asking the question at this time, as you know, that Parliament should interrupt its work within two days and it is important that this information can also be made available to Parliament and the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u12	I should therefore like to ask Mr Prime Minister whether he confirms that this budget deficit will set a target of 2, 8 % of the deficit for 2016, leaving virtually unchanged the result of this year's deficit if, by confirming this value, he considers it to be compatible with the rules of the European Budget Treaty and the European Semester, and it is considered likely that the European Commission will accept that in terms of budgetary consolidation there is no progress in 2016. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u13	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u14	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I warmly welcome you, now initiating the dialogue under new conditions. First of all, I would like to say, as we have had the opportunity to say since the first minute, that the Government will do everything to meet the objective of withdrawing Portugal from the excessive deficit procedure. I believe that there is no one in this House who argues that Portugal should not meet this objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u15	Look at that! Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u16	I don't know anyone who's defending the rise in the deficit. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u17	Sundays Abrantes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u18	I don't know. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, when I can continue my reply to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I would be very pleased to do so. As I said, this is an objective of national interest. If so, it's not the first time that happens. The last time — I would say even, the only — was in 2007. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u20	In fact, I remember well the fact that it was precisely the last year I was in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This should therefore be an objective pursued, wishing that, in the process — unfortunately, usual — of reclassification of expenditure and revenue, this deficit should not be revised within a few years, as years later the deficit below 3 % was revised which was obtained in 2007. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u21	With this attitude of the Government, I would like to stress a fact that, I think, was important to mark the relationship between the government and the new opposition. It is because I have heard, too often, some people at the PSD and CDS benches claim that the PS as much as it was in government would do everything to prevent the deficit from being achieved, in order to tarnish the good name of good management of the PSD and CDS. For the Government's efforts to comply demonstrate that, although the previous government failed the proposed budget target, everything will be done to meet the proposed budget target. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I think you can be quiet on one point: I do not think that we have the objective of having sound public finances. What separates us are public policies for healthy and sustainable public finances. And our revenue so that we can have a healthy and sustainable consolidation of public finances is the one that I announced in this Government's triple purpose: more growth, better employment and greater equality are conditions for achieving this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, and in conclusion, the draft budget that we are going to present in Brussels will certainly not surprise the honourable Member, who knows the different economic policy documents that we presented before the elections, and which are contained in our Government Programme, namely the path we have presented to reduce the deficit and which effectively sets as a goal a deficit of 2, 8 % in 2016. This is what is contained in the Government Programme, that is what will be included in the 2016 Budget Project. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u22	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u23	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have not answered my question about whether this result is considered — on the basis of the principle that it can achieve, which would be very positive, the goal that we also had, which was clearly to have a deficit below 3% — is compatible with the rules of the European Semester and the Budget Treaty which requires, as you know, also to make an annual structural consolidation for those who have greater imbalances. I would like to ask, if this is not compatible with the rules that are laid down, what the Government intends to do in order to accommodate the European rules, since I do not think that this compatibility exists. Mr Prime Minister, hoping that he will be able to answer that question later, I would also like to go to the center of what was your communication today. The government has chosen the issue of relaunching the economy with return on return and investment promotion. I believe it is important for the Government to recognize that today the country is in a position to recover income for families and further promote investment. For the most distracted, I would like to say that the recovery of income is already underway, at least, since 2015 — and in some cases since 2014 —...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u25	... and that the economy has already grown, being on positive ground, at least since 2014, and that in the last two quarters of 2013 has already reached some positive ground. It is clear that this means that we are in a position today to bet on the even more intensive recovery of the economy, to promote even more investment, to recover income, which presupposes basic work without which it was not possible for the government to establish these objectives. It is because Mr President has recently appointed equality, growth and employment as the conditions for new economic policy, but I am sorry to tell you that these are not conditions, they are objective.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u26	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u27	Our goal is to have more employment, to have more growth, to have more equality, but for this we need to have conditions to achieve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u29	We agree that, in order to achieve these objectives, we need to have more investment — there is no doubt about it — and we must continue to make a gradual recovery of income. But the recovery of income must be compatible with the economy. When the recovery of income is artificial and not supported by the economy, these objectives are at stake. I mean, as in the past, what we have is more inequality, less growth, not even economic recession, and more unemployment. This still happened at a time when the Socialist Party was in government. Now, there is one thing that, I believe, is decisive and, therefore, in this context, let me add two notes. One is that the promotion of investment depends on trust. Today the Government has announced here, in good old manner, a set of measures which it will adopt tomorrow. Most of these measures were either already in progress or are measures that add something—and therefore the Government should be welcomed—to promote even faster use of Portugal 2020, although we already have a very favourable financial implementation today, in terms of counterparts, with what was happening with the QREN at the beginning of its implementation. We have a financial execution of about 3, 4 % against the homologous of 1, 9 %. I mean, at the end of two years, we are running more than when the QREN started. But there is no doubt that we need to carry out further. But that is not enough: we need more exports and external investment. And, as was still recently recognised, this was one of the secrets of Ireland's strong recovery, i.e. the ability to attract external investment. However, Prime Minister, it is very difficult to instill confidence in economic agents when the verbs which the majority who now support the Government most like to conjugate are « repose », « reverse », « repeal » and « delete ». We have not yet seen other positive measures. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are several risks to investor confidence. When we hear that there is, on the IRC side, a halt to the reform that was under way, that some structural reforms, especially in the work area, are going back, that the reforms in companies in the business sector of the current state can be removed, that in education the degree of demand will be reduced and, therefore, it will put in question, above all, those who are socially more disadvantaged—...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u30	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u31	... I draw attention to the ranking of schools which has been published very recently and which shows how much it has to pay in private schools in order to have access to the levels of demand, and it was good that there could also be in public school this requirement — what is the consequence, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u33	The consequence is that it is already visible: Maersk, which is one of the most relevant logistics companies around the world, has already announced that it will leave Portugal and can, as Mr Minister has already acknowledged, create a serious problem for Portuguese exports. In addition, two financial rating agencies have already drawn attention to the consequences, on the side of budgetary consolidation and the continuation of structural reforms, on the signs that the government is giving us, even saying that they can cut the rating.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u34	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u35	I conclude, Mr. President. Well, that's all we're exempting so we can attract more investment. Mr Prime Minister, the question I put to you is the following: how does the verbs that the majority in Parliament support the Government most like to combine with the objectives that investors are waiting to hear? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u36	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u37	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, the country is now in a position to initiate the replacement of family income because it has today a new government which has a new policy. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It is a new policy that, firstly, rejects the view that our development model should be based on competitiveness based on low wages and on the destruction of rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it is a new policy that denies the idea that the more austerity the economy has to grow. And this distinction is what makes us different, because we all remember very well that we heard say, a few months ago, that the real frustration of the previous legislation was that we had not been able to sufficiently reduce the costs on work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, the competitiveness of our economy will not be built on the basis of low wages, it will be built on the basis of investment, knowledge, innovation, combating bureaucracy and creating a favourable context for the modernisation of our business fabric. This is how we will be more competitive and we will be able to grow in a healthier way. Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho said the key is in trust. When we look at the survey that the National Institute of Statistics has given entrepreneurs confidence, the first response given to the lack of confidence to invest was the lack of expectations regarding domestic demand for the breakdown of income of Portuguese families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I have insisted — I said this in my presentation of the Government's programme and I repeat it today — the following: the objectives of more growth, better employment and greater equality are not contradictory to each other, are objectives that complement each other and which are mutually supportive. There will be no better employment or greater equality without more growth, but I assure you - and your governance has been the best proof - that there is no growth without better employment and no greater equality. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] In fact, external investment is absolutely essential, but we need to know what external investment we want. The country needs an external investment that increases the assets of the Portuguese economy and creates new jobs, needs an external investment that creates new businesses, new wealth and new jobs. The external investment we have had over the past four years has not generated any of this, it was an external investment that was limited to buying what already existed and that you have sold the waste to foreign investment. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] In conclusion, I propose to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho the following exercise for the verbs to repose, reverse and repeal:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u38	And get rid of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u39	...we're going to restore income, we're going to reverse the fiscal asphyxiation on the middle class and we're going to revoke cuts in pensions and salaries of civil servants. So we will have a more solid way for the Portuguese economy. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u40	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u41	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, if I may, I take the floor...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u42	Don't be so critical!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u43	...not so much to ask you a question but to make a brief comment. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u44	A compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u45	I record with some comfort that Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho keeps everything he said up here: the country was getting better, people were getting worse and worse. That was the nature of right-wing politics! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, realize that consistency remains on both sides, while he was Prime Minister and now, he is sure to comfort the exercise of our duties well.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u46	It's the INEM of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u47	In any case, there is today a good example in this Parliament of why we need to recover, revoke, reverse and do what we have done. It's just, when we revoke, we're recovering what was stolen. And the overtax, which has been voted on today in the Finance Committee, is a good example of the work we are doing. [[All right!]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u48	The right imposed on all a colossal increase in taxes and, because the Constitutional Court forced, it began to try to reverse as slowly as it could overtax. That is why we were not surprised when today the PSD and CDS voted against the end of the overtax for most taxpayers in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] The Left Block, for its part, assumes the full responsibility of having beaten itself for the protection of taxpayers who have less and have achieved, for them, the return of the overtax already. It's not a fraudulent promise, as you did the right. It's not if it's going well, no, it's already in January 2016 that 3, 5 million families will pay zero overtax. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] What we achieved was a reduction in the over-tax to 99, 8 % of the taxpayers and 91 % will pay zero or 1 % of the over-tax, without increasing it to anyone and with the commitment that in 2017 there will be no over-tax to any taxpayer. in the work done with the government, the Left Block defended the greatest possible refund of the surcharge already in 2016, giving priority to the poorest taxpayers. And we recognize, in the proposal which was adopted today, that more than 60 million euros will be returned to the taxpayers than was envisaged in the initial project of the Socialist Party. The policy for the Left Block is about this: protecting people. We just hope, I must say, that the right will continue to find this path dangerous because it only means that we are doing our job well. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you now about another matter: Banif. I suppose you're as tired as I am from the banks of the former governors who collect taxpayer taxes. We had a PSD bank, BPN, which went deep and took over EUR 6 billion. We now have another bank, Banif, this one of the Madeira PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u49	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u50	... with several former rulers of Cavaco Silva and a pen of former PS ministers, which now threatens to break the country's accounts. I note that the same ones who are so worried about the deficit target today are the same ones who created Banif's problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I am sure you will not tell me, as I once told Passos Coelho in 2013 that the recapitalisation of Banif is done well and transparently and has costs that have been charged to the financial system. There is no greater irresponsibility than hiding information and even more for election purposes. That is why I know that you will not tell me, as I said on the right — that for half a year you hid the European Commission's letter on Banif — that is all right, because we know that you are not. Mr. Prime Minister, I do not only ask you how much this irresponsibility of the PSD and CDS will cost you, I also ask you what you will do to protect Portugal from this escalation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u52	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am grateful for the two questions you have raised. As for the first, I wanted to tell you that coherence is fundamental even when it involves compromise and commitment necessarily involves approximation of positions. What was done in relation to overtax is a good example of how in coherence it is possible to approach positions in order to satisfy what is essential. And what is essential is, as quickly as possible, to return to Portuguese families as much income as possible that was withdrawn from them during the four years of the austerity policy pursued by the right. This is what we must do, what we are doing, what we must continue to do. Mrs Banif is currently in a process of alienation and only at the end of the evaluation of the proposals is that we can know what impact the process has on the public accounts. There is something very important that is said in order to reassure not only Banif’s depositors, such as those who deposit in any national bank: at the moment, and for Banif’s depositors, regardless of the amount of the deposit, no one has reason to be worried about the guarantee of their deposits. Between what will be guaranteed by the Deposit Guarantee Fund and what will always be guaranteed by the State there will be no depositor who has threatened a hundred of the money he has deposited in Banif. Unfortunately, this guarantee that we can give depositors is not the guarantee that we can give taxpayers. I do not want to anticipate results right now, because, as the process of offers for Banif's purchase is still underway, everything that he said could tend to worsen the impact on public accounts. But I will not be surprised, I think no one will be surprised, that taxpayers pay a price for the intervention that was made in 2012 of Banif's capitalisation. We will wait until the end of this week and we will do everything together with the European institutions to ensure that the loss to taxpayers is the least possible within the ultra-limited framework available under the conditions under which the process has taken place over these three years and taking into account the limited space of time to act and to correct what could necessarily have been corrected longer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u53	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u54	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I appreciate the frankness of your reply, although insufficient,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u55	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u56	... I assure you that the Left Block will follow this process and will ensure protection of the public record.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u58	But I recognize that you have answered the question and it is good that the government does not hide behind the Banco de Portugal, as the PSD and the CDS have always done. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But it is also good not to hide the responsibilities of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, whose action has never been able to protect the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u60	Yesterday it was known that the right-wing government agreed with the Governor of Banco de Portugal, despite the warnings of the auditor of Banif, to do nothing throughout 2015 when the Bank was in breach of the State. There were elections and we had to pretend everything was okay. When there is a problem in the bank, pretending that everything is okay is the policy of the irresponsible. That PSD played that game, it doesn't surprise us. After all, it was the party's friend bank in Madeira! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u61	But there is a problem with the Governor of Banco de Portugal. It's too much! The intervention at BES left a hole of EUR 4, EUR 9 million when the loss had to be avoided for the public record. Now, it was Banif's hiding so that the account would only come after the elections. Mr. Prime Minister, the irresponsibility of the bank in Portugal is a problem, and the Governor of Banco de Portugal is a problem of the irresponsibility of the financial system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u62	My question is this: how do you think you will solve it? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u64	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I believe it is clear that the option made on the governance of the resolution system in Portugal clearly reveals shortcomings. Firstly, because it often places the Banco de Portugal in a double position which it should not at all have; secondly, because it is difficult for the Banco de Portugal to have the independence it needs in order to carry out its main mission ; and thirdly, because it is also doubtful that the Banco de Portugal is properly equipped with the capacity and know-how necessary to manage and intervene in the commercial bank. That is why I believe that, after this period, which will be exhausted this week, and taking up a scenario of calm which is more conducive to serious reflection on the matter, the Government must, by the Assembly of the Republic, seek to find a new institutional design that meets what is absolutely essential. And what is essential, first, is that we should not stop having the fundamental instruments to intervene in a market in which, as I said and well, when there is a problem, we must intervene and solve it, on the basis of not only contaminating the whole system, such as spreading the economy as a whole. And, if there is today a very clear distinction between the way Portugal has left the adjustment process and the way other countries have left the same process, probably one of them will certainly be the way in Portugal and in these other countries have dealt with issues relating to the financial system in a timely manner. Because, in fact, the proper functioning of the financial system is essential to give muscle and intervention capacity to the economy when it is intended to relaunch. So, past this storm phase and resumed calming,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u65	I think you're talking to the right person!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u66	... it will be a good time for us to revisit the institutional architecture that we must have and that must respond in a more appropriate way to the needs of prompt, comprehensive and satisfactory intervention, whenever necessary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u67	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u68	Mr President, Prime Minister, continue to have a regulator that looks like Mr. Magoo is certainly not an answer to our country! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u69	And having past practices does not produce any good results in the present, nor does they promise anything good in the future. Therefore, we expect it to be possible to have significant changes in the shortest amount of time. With the few seconds left to me, with the same tolerance that the Bureau gave to my predecessor, I wanted to take advantage of another very brief question. The Portuguese-Angolan citizen Luaty Beirut was arrested on June 20 for being reading a book, along with 14 other Angolans, also activists for democracy. Luaty made a month of hunger strike, because his trial was never again marked and almost died in this hunger strike. I asked your predecessor about this, but all the government did was send the visit of the Portuguese ambassador to Angola, five months after the arrest, when Luaty Beirut's life was at risk. Moreover, I was told that it was the European Union that was following this up. It's not acceptable! Luaty Beirão is also a Portuguese citizen and Portugal has close relations with Angola.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u70	Now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u71	We know that, in the face of a new hunger strike, this collective time, when they were already on trial, they put us in house arrest. But, as you know, in the Angolan dictatorship there is no separation of powers between the judiciary and political power, and only international intervention and pressure could give some assurances to Luaty Beirut and his companions. The process is not finished; far from it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u73	The lack of freedom, blackmail and the dangers for these activists and their families remain. International pressure is essential. So my question is this: how is this government monitoring the Luaty Beirut case and what will it do now? [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u74	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u75	Mr President, Madam Member, we are concerned about any cases that may call into question human rights, they occur wherever they occur and in which state they are. However, for us the question of the greatest importance in relation to the policy of this government and the scope of the CPLP is, after the good development we have had in the area of political cooperation, in the area of technical-military cooperation, in the area of economic cooperation, the development of a fundamental pillar with the pillar of luxophonical citizenship. The pillar of Lusophone citizenship must be based on a common heritage of rights. Freedom of residence in each of the Member States, right of recognition of qualifications in the different CPLP States, freedom of work in the different CPLP States, portability of rights and also equal political rights in all the CPLP countries. of the experience we have had with all the States with which we have already established relations of reciprocity, of participation in political rights, we have found that it is a very important instrument not only for improving the quality of our own democracy but also for developing democracy in all areas, especially in other luxophone countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u76	I request you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u77	I believe that the area of Lusophony, in addition to a community of language and culture, must also be based on a community of values, freedom, democracy and full respect for human rights in all CPLP countries. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u78	To put questions, Mr Paulo Portas has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u79	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will already go to the economic issue, but I would like to ask you, first of all, a question focused on education. You're done with the 4th test. year. Winning-CL will be in facilitating what will be lost in demand. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u80	Your members of the Portuguese Communist Party have scheduled in Parliament a diploma to end the national examinations of the 6. the year and the 9th. year.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u81	The honourable Member is misinformed. It has not yet been approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u82	Therefore, a young person will not have exams until he is 16, if the PCP diploma is approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u83	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u84	A kingdom of facilities when what students expect out there is a world of difficulties. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u85	I would like to ask you a simple question: you can assure the House that the Socialist Party will not lend its vote to enable the end of the national examinations of 6. the year and the 9th. the year? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u86	You have been misinformed about the PCP project!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u87	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u88	Mr President, Mr Paulo Portas, I would like to thank you for your question, which also helps us once again to clarify something that I had the opportunity to do during the debate of the Government's programme and in response to a question put precisely by your bench. I see that, having not registered at the first, he needs to repeat the question in order to see whether he registers at the second.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u89	Well citizen António Costa thought these debates were very stupid!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u90	But I am sure that, by means of repetition, we must learn our position.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u91	If necessary, take a test!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u92	There is a very important distinction, for us, between the evaluation that allows the improvement of quality and the exclusion tests that aim to select. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u93	We want an inclusion school. And the inclusion school is a school where the quality of the system is measured, where the quality of educational practices is measured, so that the public school can offer at least one school with the same level of quality that some private schools offer to those who attend it. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] however, our school model is not the model in which the State diverts money from public school funding to finance private schools, when they are not complementary to public school. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The elimination of examinations of 4. the class...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u94	of 4. The class? Oh, my God! of 4. year!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u95	of 4. year! This has been a tribute to your greeting, Member of the Commission! [[PS's laughter and applause.]] But the replacement of the measurement tests will allow us to evaluate what should be assessed, but not as an exclusion mechanism, which should not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u96	I didn't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u97	On the other hand, I would recommend that you read the Government Programme, which is very clear on what evidence should be maintained and what evidence should be changed. And there is not in our Government Programme the elimination of the evidence it has referred to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u98	Mr Paulo Portas has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u99	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, as you know, who mentioned the examination of 4. the class was V. Exa. Say everything about your contemporaneousness! [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u100	Now we've moved on to the Canal História!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u101	Then, with all the institutional cordiality, I just wanted to tell you this: we all realize, in your answer, some altitude, not to say sovereign. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] It reminds citizen António Costa that two years ago freely said that these debates were the stupidest invention of Parliament in recent years. [[That's right! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u102	We modestly count on your intelligence to enlighten Parliament and overcome stupidity. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a pragmatic question that is also focused on economic issues, and that is a pragmatic question. For the success of our exports, ports are essential and, as a significant part of Portugal's exports depart from ports, especially to non-Community markets, a reform has been made to improve port productivity. We came back — you know why! — the era of super-aggressive, super-egoist trade unionism and with enormous disregard for the national economy. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] There are strikes marked by December. There are more strikes marked for January. There have already been important operators in the market who said « So, we left the port of Lisbon! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] I'd like to ask a very pragmatic question. Mr Prime Minister, who serves management for something: can you not ask the comrades of the Interunion to end aggressive trade unionism, which causes an economic suicide, which harms exports and may call into question employment and jobs in the long term? The Portuguese economy is adversely affected by such a strike. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u103	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u104	Mr President, Mr Paulo Portas, I begin by praising the intelligence of your question. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u105	You're tired of these debates quickly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u106	I believe that the Government's Programme and the composition of this Government emphasize the importance we attach to the policy of the sea. The creation of a position as a minister of the sea, in the case of the Minister of the Sea, aims precisely to understand that a country, which has 97% of its territory in the maritime area, has to have its policy very turned and focused, in a transversal way, on the policy of the sea. I believe that, in fact, it should not be a question of controversy between us, because the national strategy, initiated in the last Government of Eng.o Socrates and concluded in a government that the honourable Member has incorporated under the direction of Mr.Minister for Assumption Cristos, is the subject of national consensus. And the enhancement of the port system and the improvement of its competitiveness conditions is absolutely essential. Therefore, it is essential to bet on and develop the Port of Sines and other national ports, including the Port of Leixões, the Port of Setúbal and the Port of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u107	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u108	This is, I believe, a goal that must be shared by all. On the announcement that an important operator leaves Lisbon Port to concentrate its operation in the Leixões Port, I must say that, despite having been President of the Lisbon Chamber for so many years, I do not see this relocation as the departure of the operator abroad. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u109	The port of Legions is a national port. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u110	It's the export will of the CDS! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Paulo Portas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u111	Mr President, with all honesty, I have noticed that you today feel the need to differentiate after so many years of living from the PSD bench. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u112	I know that the PSD bench moved to the right, but it was in such a way that you have to run a lot to keep some differentiation from the PSD bench. But, Mr, there are limits to allergy to the strike and to your view of the right of trade unions and the role of trade unions in Portugal. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Paulo Portas.]] Mr President, let me tell you that the European social model, the social market economy that socialist, social-democratic, labour and Christian democrat families have contributed so much to build in the post-war period, there are no unions, no strong unions and no respect for trade union freedom. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u113	Mr Paulo Portas has the floor, although Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u114	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister knows that the European social model in which social-Christian, social-democratic and democratic socialists participated has always been based on the negotiation and commitment between the social partners, but it has never been made with the Interunion which refused to sign a single relevant agreement in 40 years that made the economic and social progress of Portugal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u115	It's a lie! It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u116	The only thing I asked you, Prime Minister, was a very simple thing... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u117	They're still unable to hear today!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u118	The only thing I asked you was very simple: if you were thinking of doing something to give comfort to the position you took, and well, a minister of your government, considering these strikes, even for its extension and its systematic character, harmful to the economy. Mr. Prime Minister, in January alone they are marked almost 10 days of strike and this harms exports. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Don't tell me that strikes in ports are due to the average worker's income, because you know perfectly well that these incomes are above the average income of the Portuguese worker. And therefore, Prime Minister, I asked you a very simple question: will you ask for the loyal and legitimate cooperation of the Portuguese Communist Party in order to save the country from strikes which obviously harm exports and the economy? And I found it extraordinary that Mr. Prime Minister spent so much time saying different things without answering yes or no, « I will try to avoid these strikes». It was a Christmas charity that made the country. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u119	Today, don't hit one!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u120	Mr Prime Minister, on economic matters, I would like to leave you two more messages. First of all, it was wrong for you to say that it is very bad for you, not to recognise that the income recovery policy is today possible, because there were millions of Portuguese who, with their sacrifices and their efforts, finished the adjustment programme with the troika and allowed Portugal to overcome the stage of the rescue in which VV. Ex. They left our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u121	It's too bad for you! It is not a question of recognizing the work of the previous government, it is a question of admiration for the efforts that the Portuguese have made to solve a problem that you have created. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Even more it gets worse, and it was certainly a lapse, to say that the foreign investment that helped economic recovery in Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u122	What foreign investment?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u123	... went to waste.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u124	What foreign investment?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u125	It seems to me that you think this about the announcement of new investments in Autoeuropa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u126	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u127	... of the announcement of new investments in Embraer, of the announcement of new investments in Bosch,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u128	These investments! These!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u129	... of the announcement of new investments in Mecachrome, of the announcement of new investments in Borgstena,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u130	What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u131	...and could continue this list.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u132	What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u133	You know what, Dr. António Costa? Don't forget about Dr António Costa who, not long ago, was talking to the Chinese community to thank them for the investment he had helped Portugal to be, I quote, « in a much better situation». [[Congratulations and laughter from the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u134	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u135	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that what separates us, Prime Minister, is the speed in the recovery of income. I think it is preferable to do so gradually, because if we do so gradually, year after year, the fully deserved and fair return of the overtax will be final; if Mr Prime Minister enters an auction « of whom he gives more and more quickly», he may be taking what he is now giving and harming the middle class. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u136	Mr Prime Minister, if you so understand, will be able to answer Mr Paulo Portas' questions, when answering Mr Jerome de Sousa's questions, to whom I shall next give the floor. To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor. [[At the moment, there were demonstrations of a person's protest in the galleries.]] Mr Jerónimo, I ask you to wait a moment, because there is an unexpected intervention. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u137	Mr President, Prime Minister, the themes chosen for this first half-year debate put on the first line a question that corresponds to the expectations of workers and thousands of Portuguese people to be recovered their incomes so hard-flagged in recent years by the previous Government — paraphrasing Mr Paulo Portas, a Government of PSD and CDS partners. [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u138	It was from the partners; it was not from an anonymous society!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u139	in wages, pensions, overtaxes, social benefits, combating poverty, in support of the unemployed are many expectations that Portuguese have as regards the recovery of income that needs to be realized from the Assembly of the Republic or decision of the Government. On the other hand, when we are dealing with the recovery of the economy, we need to take into account the problems faced by our productive sectors and what is urgently needed to respond not only to the more general problems of support, the exploitation of the productive sectors and national production, but also to the specific problems. It is important to respond to specific problems, which require urgent solutions, such as those created in the House of Douro, or in the dairy sector, or the problems of relocation and closure of businesses, redundancies, which are reflected in companies such as the Triomphe or the Unicer, or also the problems that arise again, particularly in terms of stopping, the workers of Autoeuropa and the many companies working in that large unit, as is the case with Gestamp. We would therefore like to know how the government will respond to these situations that affect thousands of workers and concern Portuguese about the future of our productive sectors. But there is still another issue that needs to be mentioned right now. Mr. Prime Minister, today, it is hard to talk about Banif's situation. During the past year and a half I faced the then Prime Minister, today Mr Passos Coelho, and four times I made this request for clarification with the evolution of Banif's situation. I retain the statement of the then Prime Minister, who, fortunately, is no longer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u140	Say, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u141	... which said that loans to the bank were even a good deal, because the value of the interest rate would allow the State to have profits with the operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u142	Well remembered! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u143	After all, what happened? The former Prime Minister has deceived himself or wanted to deceive someone?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u144	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u145	He made a mistake on purpose, because he pushed the problem forward, a little bit on the idea of 'who would come back and close the door'! This is because we can stand before another case, following other cases, in which ultimately the payer is the country, are the Portuguese and we think that this cannot be the way. With regard to the issues chosen for this debate, will economic development be possible without a bank at the service of the economy, of the people and of the country, in particular by supporting micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, families, their savings, which result in a lifetime of work? This presupposes, from our point of view, ending the speculative activity that characterizes bank management. We would like to hear it on this subject, Mr Prime Minister, because this is a fundamental issue that has remained for too long with successive and too many cases that have so much harmed the country and its people. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u146	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u147	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I ask you to use my first minute to answer something that cannot be answered, which was the last question put by Mr Paulo Portas. Mr. Paulo Portas, I was kind enough not to answer your question directly, because your question really meant an insult, first, to the trade union movement, second, to the CFP and third, to the Government. It is only in this way that I could seriously be asking and making sense that the Prime Minister asked the Secretary-General of the CFP to proceed with a union the interruption of a strike. You think this is normal? Oh, my God! You think this is serious? Oh, my God! You think this is a question? Oh, my God! Is this the social dialogue and political dialogue in Portugal? Oh, my God! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] Mr. Paulo Portas, no government, in the coming decades will be able to beat the record of his government on strike days in ports, particularly in the Port of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I want to tell you more: I do not accept a country where there is no exclusion from political forces or social forces. I do not accept a country where social consultation takes place between the group of employers' confederations and a trade union confederation. I want a social consultation where everyone speaks, where everyone works to agree with the same commitment, with the same good faith and with the same determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has again brought up an essential issue which has to do with the question of the bank and its ability to finance the Portuguese economy. I said this: today one of the obstacles to economic growth is the difficulties of financing our companies. We must act on companies by improving their capital ratios so that they can easily access the credit they need to invest, but we must also act on financing instruments, either by speeding up the implementation of Community funds or by creating conditions for the financial system to be able to finance the economy in a healthy way. This necessarily implies that we have a bank capable of financing the economy and not a bank which is returning, as apparently it is returning, to an already exhausted model of financing private consumption and home purchase and continuing not to finance what business investment is. We need to have an institution in the banking system, I would say, necessarily of a public nature and that it is indeed a development bank and an effective instrument put at the service of the country's economic development. And it is absolutely extraordinary how, over four years, the former government has been talking about the development bank, the Development Bank and the Financial Institution, we have been multiplying the bad banks and the good banks, but the development bank is that it has not acted and continued without doing what it should do, which is to finance the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, it is urgent and a priority to create alternative mechanisms, but also conditions for the bank to be able to effectively finance the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u148	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u149	Mr President, the Prime Minister thinks he has spent more time responding to Mr Paulo Portas. The truth is that this, firstly, is not correct with regard to union affiliations and, secondly, has fled to the substance of the thing. It is for Mr Paulo Portas the strike is only good when it is not done! [[PCP, PS, BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u150	When it's not abusive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u151	And, of course, workers do not have this understanding. This constitutional right, in fact, exists because it was acquired by the workers themselves in the wake of those who, like Dr. Paulo Portas, refuse to recognize a constitutional right, a historical right of Portuguese workers. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] But, returning to serious matters, Prime Minister, what is happening in the TAP, as a public company, could be classified as a real loot. The famous « fresh money» is being squeezed from the company itself, with the guarantees of the state, which now appear and have always been denied as a public enterprise. It is the alienation of land at the airport, aggravating concerns about the future of holding; it is the decisions of renewal of the fleet, altered to the flavor of the strategies and interests of the consortium in progress; it is the announcement of a model of service of lower quality, with meals and luggage paid to the part; it is the equation of a deep cut in Portugal and its fleet; it is the threat to the future of the workers of several companies of the TAP Group. It's of the greatest gravity what's being done. It is evidence that TAP was illegally sold by a dismissed government, which could not have made such a sale. Therefore, it is urgent and indispensable to cancel and reverse this privatisation. In short, Mr. Prime Minister, in the face of the dangers of the destruction of wealth, in the face of workers' concerns and the future of the company, what is the perspective of the government's intervention? We're talking about growth, we're talking about economic development! We will certainly agree that this country, its economy, needs a public TAP at the service of the country and populations. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u152	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u153	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the last months of the previous government's action have been elucidative in form, I would say, not democratic as several privatization processes have been conducted. And I say 'undemocratic' because it was known in advance that there was disagreement between the generality of the political forces and a set of concessions for urban public transport or privatization of the TAP and it was absolutely unacceptable that the former Government, in the course of elections and in the case of the TAP, on the day following its resignation, had allowed to sign a contract, knowing that it did not have a majority in the Assembly of the Republic defending the continuation of that privatisation. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] I think it will take many years for us to have the example of a government that has already been dismissed by Parliament if it is possible to sign a contract that obliges the Portuguese State against the majority will of the representatives of the citizens of Portugal. I hope that this will never happen again in our democracy. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The honourable Member knows the position of the Government and which is contained in our Programme: the State must maintain the majority of TAP's capital. And so today we have to negotiate the acquisition by the State of 51% of the capital of TAP and we consider this vital, because TAP is not only an aviation company, today, TAP is also a guarantee of national independence, a guarantee of the connection of our continuing territory and is a guarantee of our connection to emigrant communities and a fundamental instrument for the Portuguese economy and the affirmation of the Atlantic platform of Portugal as a grid up of Europe in its relationship with the world. That is why, under no circumstances, the State may lose most of the capital of TAP, which is essential for us to recover. That is what you are in the Government Programme and that is what we are going to do. [[P.S. and P.P.P. Members' applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u154	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is clear that each parliamentary group has the freedom to bring to debate what it wants and also what it does not want, but we will all have noticed that neither the PSD nor the CDS have opened their mouths to talk about Banif, of course because they considered that they would have many explanations to offer to the House and the country, since they have dug a deep hole, they have put a lot of money from the taxpayers in Banif, did not follow the situation, did not demand payments, were irresponsible, in relation to what they had to do. And, Prime Minister, does it not seem to you that Mr Paulo Portas, who likes so much and has so many views on management, should take on the management he has placed in the country, in view of the government's attitude towards Banif? I refer, of course, to the former government. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Mr Prime Minister, referring to what Mr Pedro Passos Coelho said, it is clear that the priority verbs for the country are « reverse », « repeal », « put back », « delete », and, invent more, « recover ». It is necessary to reverse the cracks that the previous government has made in order to set the way in a right direction, to leverage the economy that the country needs, as bread for the mouth. And it is clear that we have to do what the previous government did not want to do, which was to restore purchasing power in families, because, while wasting money in banks and large economic groups, we forgot that the big Portuguese families needed money to survive and live. But they never wanted to know about this. So, Prime Minister, it is clear that reverse logic is a priority in the country. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two very specific questions. On the subject of artistic education, there goes a big problem here in Portugal, because we have absolutely damaged children and teachers with late wages. Question : How can you respond to these artistic schools at this time? A word from the Government here in the Assembly of the Republic might be important to clarify or, at least, to understand the direction in this matter. Mr Prime Minister, in conclusion, I would like to talk about COP 21, but we will not discuss the agreement on the Climate Summit, because it will be discussed next Friday, in a specific debate, of the Greens initiative, in the Assembly of the Republic, in plenary. It happens that the world needs a new energy paradigm, and this energy paradigm needs to replace fossil fuels with alternative energies. Now, in Portugal, there is a exploration of oil and natural gas in the Algarve and Costa Vicentina. This is absurd! We are exploring, with a view to exploitation — an absolutely exhausted model and, more importantly, with a total lack of transparency — with the total opposition of the authorities and in the middle of the natural park, in full protected areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u156	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like you to think about it, or perhaps even better, a call for attention, what the Greens are doing to the government today on this matter. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u159	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, very quickly, I would like to say that as regards artistic education, we have as a priority the re-evaluation of artistic education, but we also have a priority of priorities, which is to overcome the obstacles posed by the Court of Auditors already in 2015, which have not been duly taken into account since many of the contracts for financing artistic education have been blocked again today. Therefore, first of all, the priority is to overcome the issues raised by the Court of Auditors in order to restore funding, which is essential. But we have a good idea that, in addition to restoring what is essential, we have to reverse the existing situation, i.e. we have to make an investment throughout the legislature in artistic education. The quality of the public school goes through its curriculum enrichment, and the curriculum enrichment has a very significant value in artistic education, as well as in secondary education, with the diversification and enhancement of professional pathways. And if we want to achieve, because we have to achieve the goals that the country has made with the European Union to reduce early school dropout and failure and to achieve the goals for the completion of secondary education, we must in fact value curricular enrichment, which also goes through the enhancement of artistic education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the energy issue, I will not develop it, because there will be a debate next Friday. I believe that the country cannot waste the opportunity to explore which allows it to identify the energy resources it has, but that does not mean, nor can it ever, mean that the country's priority must not be the one that has been interrupted and that has to be resumed: the bet on renewable energies and the use of the unique opportunities that this country has, valuing solar energy, wind energy and hydraulic energy. More: we must do so in the context of the development of the single energy market in the European Union, because we have unique conditions to stop being a predominantly importing country to become an exporting country of the installed electricity capacity, in particular that which results from renewable energy, contributing to a more balanced energy mix of other countries that need to import energy and which, above all, have less conditions than those that we have to produce clean energy and we can meet the targets we all have to achieve from COP 21. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u161	On the conduct of the work, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u162	Yes, Mr President, it is about the conduct and course of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u163	So please explain the question on the conduct of the work, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u164	Mr President, I would like to ask Mr President to confirm to the House, in particular Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, that the Government yesterday requested a meeting with the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the question of Banif. It was said here that the CDS did not address or did not talk about Banif's issue. That is why he would like to confirm, even for the proper conduct of the work, and in particular to clarify who is listening to us, and to do so, even through the Government, that the Government has requested the meeting, that the CDS has been present at that meeting, that the CDS has ensured, at that same meeting, secrecy and reservation and that it would not use any kind of information, especially in this debate, because this requires the sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u165	You got it, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u166	There's enough of what's in relation to leaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u167	You have already understood your request to the Bureau, Mr President. Unfortunately, I cannot answer you because Parliament, the Bureau and the President of Parliament have not been held or found at this meeting. [[But it's clear!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u168	But, of course, Mr Prime Minister, at the time of speaking, he can answer the question he has just raised. You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u169	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister brings us today a proposal for a debate on the relaunch of the economy, based on the recovery of income and the promotion of investment. We welcome this desire to revive the economy, provided that it is done in accordance with the best practices required for a new paradigm. On 2 December the European Commission adopted a new package of measures leading to the development of a circular economy in the European Union, where products and materials are kept on a circular path, waste is minimized and resources are kept in the economy when a product reaches the end of its life, thus continuing to create value. Ten days later, the COP 21 agreement was signed in Paris. In any of these areas, Portugal can and must do much, as long as it resumes the primacy of knowledge that characterized scientific management in a not very distant time. Our question and, therefore, we are asking, is whether Mr. Prime Minister will be available to establish the commitment to the country that he will do everything possible to develop a circular economy in Portugal and measures that reverse our 10-seat fall in the ranking of greenhouse gas emitters.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u170	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u171	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I would like to thank you for your question and to tell you that our Government's programme in that regard is clear. As regards emissions, we have two fundamental sources of emissions: one, it has to do with urban transport and the other, it has to do with building. And it is not by chance that we have placed in the Ministry of the Environment the Secretary of State responsible for urban policies and, in this context, for the management of urban public transport, which is separate from the management of the remaining infrastructure network, which depends and will continue to depend on the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure, because we believe that urban public transport is a key to the reduction of greenhouse gases in cities and is in the cities that are overcome, or lost, the challenge of controlling climate change. But it is also in this area, in this Ministry and in this State Secretariat, that are the housing policies, the basis of the new generation of housing policies, based on urban rehabilitation, with a view to improving the energy efficiency of the building. This is because if we are able to control these two sources of emissions and, at the same time, to resume, with energy and political will, what is an energy policy centred on renewables and on the creation of a scientific and technological cluster for the development of renewable energy, we can contribute very positively to that which has to be the civil ambition to control this great challenge, which is the challenge of climate change. These are the fundamental foundations of our Government Programme and will be the fundamental foundations of our political action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u172	To put questions, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u173	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are always moments of political change in which courage, intelligence, determination and sense of responsibility must be combined. This is the emergency we are facing in our country: we have to add more justice where we are left with more inequalities, we have to give more hope where we have left more desolation and we have to use better means to achieve better ends. It is before this emergency that we welcome the determination and intelligence demonstrated by the Government and the Prime Minister and the commitments they have made here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am amazed at the parties of the extinct Government, who continue to speak of the present as if it were someone else and the future as if they had thought of it in the past. by the sights, the discharge was even the only area that was exempt from taxes in right-wing governance in the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] over these four years, the right has done what, alone, is more apt to do in a difficult situation at the economic, social and financial level: cutting, cutting, cutting, it doesn't matter what, or who; cutting doesn't matter what reasons, or what consequences. As the Socialist Party has well mentioned, the result could not be different: it is not seen that the enterprise has been strengthened, that the financial sector has not been stabilized, that growth has not been positive and that public or private debt has not been reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u175	The questions that should be asked today on the right and should be asked, in general, in this Parliament, would be to know how the new government will be able to reverse the economic and social devastation that the extinct majority has left to the new majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we said, the country of summer's electoral propaganda has never existed, there is, on the contrary, no winter left us, but let's certainly go beyond it, repairing the damage. Mr Prime Minister, the situation we are in today is clear. The targets have not been met, namely the promised deficit of 2, 7 % of GDP, and we are in difficulty to meet the targets of 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u177	Debt is above 128 % and above all forecasts, including those of the majority of the extinct government. Portugal's GDP per capita, despite the population's decline, puts us in the euro area's tail and this 3. the trimester has brought us results where, instead of getting closer to the European average, we continue to diverge. We have the biggest tax burden there is memory in our country. The economy and investment returned to the values of the 1980s and even some of the foreign investments announced by the leader of the minority party of the extinct coalition were initiated in previous governments, both of the same party and of other parties, such as the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The decrease in real investment in science, research and development per capita was the greatest observed in Europe in the last four years. The financial business sector comes to the situation today with the weaknesses that have already been mentioned. The unemployment rate is the third highest among OECD countries. Yesterday we learned that Portugal was the second country in the European Union to 28 that most jobs destroyed in the 3rd. This year's quarter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u178	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u179	The country has 3 million people at risk of poverty. Almost doubled the number of people to collect the national minimum wage. People who work 50 and more hours a day almost doubled. Social benefits, such as social complement for the elderly and social income of insertion, were withdrawn from the most needy families. And, in order to give an idea of public services, I will only say that, with this extinct government, of the right coalition, what happened, for example, in the National Health Service was a decrease in 1, 3 million consultations, which shows the brand of inaccessibility with which the right government led the provision of this public service and access to health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u180	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u181	We're almost on the edge of a rescue!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u182	This is the past and the present that the extinct majority could and should speak and is to turn the page, to reverse the negative, to build the positive and to return the hope that we are working here. The leader of the minority says that some of the positive measures announced are due to the fact that the country is now in a position to do so. You're wrong, Mr Steps Rabbit, what happens is different! The country is absolutely in need of doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The leader of the minority says that, in certain cases, such as that of meeting goals, it is enough to have just good current management. No, Mr. Steps Rabbit! As you have seen in the past and as you will now have to see in the future, what matters is not just a good current management but a very different management, so that we are able to meet our commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, among the priorities announced, the Prime Minister has stressed the importance of education so that together we will increase our incomes, relaunch our economy and employment, give additional support to investment and also have more investment in Portugal. in fact, if today we have so many problems in the education sector and so much educational failure, this is undoubtedly due to a major factor of differentiation. And the main factor of differentiation in educational success is poverty, family unsustainability, lack of housing quality, inaccessibility to educational and cultural goods, low income and regional asymmetries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is against this that we must commit ourselves to this, and this is what we must put our greatest efforts into! We therefore welcome the measures being taken in the area of the recovery of income for people and families, which, of course, is not the central issue of economic development, which is an issue of insurmountable importance, either in the area of the overtax of the IRS, whether the pay cuts of public officials, the national minimum wage, the social benefits, the question of collective bargaining — which is important, because 83 % of Portuguese workers work outside the collective bargaining — or also improving the quality of our public services. Mr President, Prime Minister, my final question is rhetorical, I know, but the answer is important. Question : How do you feel about the scale of the challenges faced by the country and the government? [[PSD Members' laughs.]] The answer that we give here — they know — is that, on our part, we feel confident, we feel determined, because we trust the government, we trust the word of this government and we believe in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u183	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u184	Mr President, Mr. Carlos César, I begin by answering your question, because, being rhetorical, it is important to have the answer. We are indeed a confident government, of course, because we believe in the strategy and programme that we have presented here and that the Assembly of the Republic has made it possible. We are confident, because we believe in our ability to execute and because we know how to have the majority support of this House of the Republic so that we can govern and execute our Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reason why it is possible to change is because it is necessary to change. The strategy that was adopted, by cutting incomes for the economy to grow, the obsession of going beyond the troika and the obsession with the enormous increase in taxes, has led to the greater contraction of the economy that the country has had in recent years. [[PSD protests.]] We cannot pursue this policy if we want to have different results. We must have a different policy so that we can have different results. We therefore say that it is urgent to restore family income, it is urgent to create conditions for companies' investment, because there is only growth, and there is only growth, that we can have better employment, that we can only have greater equality, and that with greater equality and better employment we will have a growth that is healthy, sustainable and that contributes positively to the consolidation of our public finances. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That will therefore be our path and our determination. And it is essential that here, in the Assembly of the Republic, we can contribute positively so that the turn of the page, which the change of majority has meant, also means, little by little, even slowly—and certainly benefiting from the spirit of this new Christmas square— another climate of dialogue among all, because it is also necessary to help everyone to assume, with dignity, the new mandate that the people have determined, in accordance with the election results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[The people?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we conclude the first item on our agenda, so we will move on to the second point, which consists of the debate, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the preparatory session of the European Council, under Article 4(1) (a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. For an opening intervention, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next European Council has, on its agenda, two key issues associated — the area of justice and home affairs, terrorism and migration — two issues related to economic and monetary union and the creation of the single market and also a political theme of greatest importance, which is the debate around the referendum in the United Kingdom on its participation in the European Union. As far as the fight against terrorism is concerned, there is an urgent need for a European, strong and credible action in respect of, of course, fundamental rights and the rule of law. in this context, Portugal is committed to the implementation of the counter-terrorism measures, as set out in the Declaration of Heads of State or Government of 12 February this year, and it is also to remember that, already with the previous Government, the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy was adopted in that month. Moreover, the Portuguese State has already adapted the relevant national legislation, in particular to address the phenomena of foreign terrorist combatants, the so-called'returned combatants ', in compliance with the UN Security Council Resolutions. in the current scenario, it is essential to intensify international cooperation and combat the financing of terrorism, while not forgetting the importance of achieving progress in the fight against illicit arms traffic and in strengthening the control of external borders of the Schengen area. However, it is important not to underestimate the importance of working at the level of prevention in order to respond to the problems of radicalization and recruitment for terrorism. Thus, we defend dialogue with religious communities and leaders, together with the adoption of structural measures of social integration, in particular in the areas of housing, education and culture. On the other hand, on the question of migrants and refugees — and not forgetting that Portugal is an external border of the European Union — we advocate an effective border control policy for which the creation of a European coastal guard system can contribute significantly. It will also be important to promote the strengthening of international cooperation, a preferential instrument for identifying and combating the root causes of the migratory phenomenon, through closer cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination. in this context, it is of the utmost importance to re-enhancing the European Union's relationship with Turkey, one of the main axes of this European strategy to deal with the migration phenomenon. There is nothing like the most recent events in order to draw our attention to the fact that, whether we like it or not, Turkey truly is already part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u188	At the same time, it is also important to promote legal immigration channels, develop an intra-cultural society and deepen the integration of immigrants, through the adoption of an active policy of solidarity, which is an example of the next establishment of refugees in Portugal — the first 24 of which will reach our country tomorrow and will certainly find conditions to begin their lives in a space marked by the values of universalist humanism of which national culture is stamping. on the issue of Economic and Monetary Union, in particular following the report of the five Presidents, it is clear that economic and fiscal governance needs to be made more efficient in order to increase the competitiveness, convergence and sustainability of the European economy. To that end, it is essential to strengthen the social dimension and democratic dialogue in the context of the European Semester. The European Union cannot provide greater coordination of Member States' policies and economic options. In addition to enhanced coordination at the budgetary level, we also advocate effective coordination, as necessary, to reduce macroeconomic imbalances and asymmetries within the euro area. in this context, it is important to highlight the role of the Union budgets and, from the outset, the multiannual financing framework. Budgets are not an end in themselves, but rather a means of achieving public policies financially. We therefore see the Juncker Plan as a contribution to building confidence, re-enhancing investment and putting financial resources in the economy. The linkage of this new instrument to cohesion policy cannot be neglected. Economic, social and territorial cohesion is a fundamental and decisive value of our Union, and only a cohesion and solidarity Europe, having the logic of winning and losing countries and capable of reducing asymmetries will be able to act consistently with the challenges that arise. It is therefore necessary to ensure that the specific recommendations made to the Member States have an effective link with the concrete reality of each country, indicating reforms that really favour the priorities for competitiveness and cohesion of the European economies and do not simply follow an ideological cartilage, as often incorrect as possible from the actual needs of each country, as we can see over the past four years. The Union needs investment, through mobilising projects, which create advantages and improvements in the lives of citizens, relaunch growth, create jobs and promote a greener, smarter and inclusive economy that will allow a new impetus to convergence. on the single market, a fundamental foundation for European construction, I would like to highlight two dimensions: on the one hand, the digital internal market and, on the other hand, the internal energy market, which I have just mentioned. The single digital market is essential to give new impetus to the European economy and to job creation and to highlight in this context the importance of the strategy for the single digital market already presented by the European Commission this year. The future agenda for new competences for Europe will also contribute to a greater qualification of human resources and to the competitiveness of companies in the current digital economy and is an extraordinary opportunity for a country like Portugal to be able to convert many of those qualified unemployed who need and can find new employment opportunities and new solutions for their lives within this digital single market. At a time when we're getting ready to celebrate the age of 30...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u189	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u190	I shall now conclude, Mr President. at a time when we prepare to celebrate the 30 years of Portugal's participation in the European project, I would like to end with a note of optimism. The European Union is one of the pillars in which Portuguese external action is based and a committed, responsible and supportive European partner is a sign of Portugal's presence in Europe. In fact, there is no contradiction between the affirmation of national identity and the deepening of the European project. More Portugal and more Europe are mutually reinforcing objectives, and it is within Europe and with Europe that these challenges must be overcome. However, there is a need for substantial change, a rebalancing of European policy and, in particular, a strengthening of cohesion. Only in this way will it be possible to revive the economy and treat the many wounds caused in the social fabric by recent adjustment processes. in this context, it is urgent to provide the European Union with an effective budgetary capacity and mechanisms to absorb the harmful effects of systemic crises and to correct the asymmetries that the euro has accentuated and that it is necessary to overcome in order to give a new impetus to the convergence of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u191	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : We have learned that you feel confident with the Avante. I wanted to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u193	Christmas poetry! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u194	On the agenda of the next European Council and its intervention, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to remind you, first of all, that we have had the opportunity to adopt positions in Parliament on the fight against terrorism. The previous government, moreover, promoted a number of legislative amendments which have been enshrined — and were relatively consensual, say to pass — and to deepen new and prevention mechanisms, or to suppress terrorist conduct. But, Prime Minister, even with regard to these legislative instruments, I would like to ask you a question relating to internal research instruments and also to international cooperation, which has to do with a decision of the Constitutional Court. On this subject and on the possibility of action by the Information Services, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what his position is, what is the position of the Government. I know that this will have to be appreciated in Parliament, but we would like to know what the position of the Government and the Prime Minister is, of course, that on the part of the PSD we are still available to dialogue in this area. On the subject of refugees, Mr Prime Minister, the week in which, as you said, we will welcome the first refugees from the contingent who will come to our country, it is true that I could ask you on which foot is that plan of land-cleaning action that you were talking about in the election campaign, possible service for refugees.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u196	But I will not ask you this question, Prime Minister, I will put you another one. After the European Union summit with Turkey on 29 November, and you said that you had done a great deal of good, you can tell us - in fact, we have already had the opportunity to ask Mr Foreign Minister - what is Portugal's financial contribution to Turkey's aid action plan. I think it was important to have a notion of the availability of our country in this area. with regard to Economic and Monetary Union and the Single Market, I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, very concrete and direct questions. Mr Prime Minister has said here, as he has just done, many generalities, and he has also defended the already famous intelligent readings of European treaties and agreements, but there are answers that require less ambiguity, Mr Prime Minister. For example, on the report of the five presidents, there is an open debate in Europe which is very interested in Portugal and which has to do with the completion of the Banking Union. I am referring to the deposit guarantee mechanism. What do you think about this discussion by the Prime Minister and the Portuguese Government and what position will they take in the Council on this matter? As you know, even countries, Member States, have argued that this deposit guarantee can only be enshrined with the amendment of the Treaties. It is not our position, but we would like to know what the position of the Government and the Prime Minister is on a subject which, I repeat, is very expensive to the Portuguese interests and where, I believe, we have some authority for the credibility that we have been achieving over the last few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u197	We don't lack credibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u198	Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to ask about another very relevant matter, from our point of view, in order to give new impetus and ambition to economic and monetary union. basically, we would like to know if the current Prime Minister is going to be 'gasing', it will continue to defend in Europe a proposal that his predecessor made with regard to the creation of a European monetary fund. What does the government think about this proposal? I believe that in Portugal we deserve an answer that does not come out of any ideological or partisan complex and that it is not going to be one of the subjects that is confined to the vinchist boulevard where all the structural reforms that the previous government has made have been deposited, perhaps only because they were made by that government. So I ask you directly, Prime Minister: will you embrace or abandon this cause? If you're going to hug her, will you already have the opportunity to put her on the table at the next meeting of the European Council or not? And if you're not going to hug her, that is, if you're going to abandon her, what is the alternative you're proposing? What is your view of this matter? Are you or are you not still waiting for advice from the Communist Party and the Left Block? Now, speaking in political affinities with the Communist Party and the Left Block, and even because you are talking about a monetary fund, I ask you a question about Greece, Prime Minister, which is important. What is the position of the Portuguese Government on the stay of the International Monetary Fund in Greece? This is another issue that is open in Europe. We know that some Member States have opposed the exit of the Greek International Monetary Fund, so we would like to know that we are a country that integrates the euro, that we are associated with the stability mechanism, as this issue must be addressed. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I am referring to a matter which is certainly very relevant to the future of Europe and which has to do with the referendum in the United Kingdom and the negotiating agenda that is associated with this process by the UK government. What is the position of the Portuguese Government and the Prime Minister? Do you think this negotiating agenda that the English government has put on the table is reasonable? Or don't you think it's reasonable? Mr Prime Minister, this matter does not seem to be indifferent to Europe and not Portugal either, certainly, so it also lacks an answer here.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u200	I shall conclude, Mr. President. I will not need, I think, as much tolerance as the one you've had with Mr. Prime Minister. I just want to say that it is, in fact, I need to take a stand. See, for example, and inspire yourself, Mr Prime Minister, in what the French Socialists did last weekend, when more pro-European parties approached to combat extremist positions. I know that in Portugal the Socialists have gone further than pro-European parties and are closer to extremist parties, but I believe there is a word that Mr. Prime Minister has to give, and this is the occasion. You can nod your head, Prime Minister. The matter is even important for the position of the Government, the Socialist Party and Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u201	Mr President, with regard to the tolerance of intervention time, I would like to tell you that I acted with the honourable Member exactly as I did with the Prime Minister, so your comment was indispensable. In any case, I take it as a constructive critical contribution, which I thank. You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u202	Mr President, Prime Minister : The next European Council will debate the refugee crisis and the fight against terrorism. We consider these subjects very important and we also consider it important that Portugal has its own voice in the defence of human rights and that it does not compact with the hypocrisy of those who say that it wants to fight wars at the same time as it feeds them. First of all, in relation to the refugee crisis, we are tired of hearing that Portugal has recently opened its doors to refugees, but that it is the refugees who do not want to come to Portugal. This is not true. The European Council allocated the refugee quotas only considering refugees who have already arrived in Europe long ago, the first to flee the war to meet their relatives who already lived here who are now housed in refugee camps in Italy and Greece, who know where their families are and who come to Portugal does not help them at that same meeting with their families. in fact, the thousands of refugees who are entering the last few months and now in Europe are not in this group. The people with whom we are confronted every day on television and who are fleeing the war, who we see jumping walls, on crowded trains, surrounded by shock cops a little by this Europe are without any answer. The 10,000 children who were wandering alone in Europe are unanswered. To welcome some of these people who would certainly not deny the possibility of coming to Portugal is not a favour, it is our obligation. We must defend a quick solution in Europe, worthy of these thousands of refugees who have been abandoned. That is the crisis that needs answers now. Portugal cannot say that it wants to welcome refugees knowing that others are there to close the doors for us. We must open these doors to respond to these refugees. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS MP João Galamba.]] It is time to end hypocrisy in the response to refugees and also in the fight against terrorism. Mr Prime Minister, the European Union has agreed on an appropriation of EUR 3000 million for Turkey to control migration flows. We know that in Turkey there are thousands of refugees who must have a response and the European Union has a duty of solidarity with Turkey under these conditions. But the EUR 3000 million is not for these refugees, they are not for that answer, nor are they presented with clear conditions. They are to stop migratory flows, they are to make Turkey the EU doorkeeper, with all the ambiguities Turkey has had throughout this process. Turkey is attacking the Kurds and their army, which is of the few who, on the ground, fight Daesh, the self-denominated Islamic State. Turkey has, therefore, not only been part of the problem. Turkey not only attacks the Kurdish army, which is a line of defense against Daesh, as it is for Turkey that circulates the oil that feeds the army of terror. Daesh earns 1 to 2 million euros a day with the sale of oil and part of it goes through Turkey. We cannot close our eyes to this, nor can we ignore the sale of European arms from European Union States to Daesh, which is largely done through Saudi Arabia. Europe is fueling the terror it says it wants to fight. It can't be! Portugal must have a clear position in this European Council against hypocrisy. Drying the financing of Daesh and stopping the sale of arms are two essential points which the European Council can and should achieve. Finally, and no less important, it is not possible to silence what is going on with the retaliation bombings on the Syrian population. The Syrian people are the first victim of Daesh's terror. Bombarding the cities and villages of Syria is no solution for anything. It is important that we remember: the shameful summit that Durão Barroso was host to the Lajes and that began the logic of the bombings only served to create new problems. War business is always a bad way. We know, of course, that we can't keep our arms crossed or defend that no one stays with our arms crossed against Daesh. But the solutions we need must be found in respect of international law and must have as their first objective to defend the people and to stop Daesh. We certainly do not need more martyr peoples in the Middle East. Mr Prime Minister, the challenge we have addressed to you is that in this European Council, both with regard to the refugee crisis and in the fight against terrorism and in so many other matters, what has been done so far is not done. The worst for Portugal would be to continue with the position of being a good student of the worst teachers. It is time to have a clear voice for human rights and peace. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u203	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u204	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In our view, this is a European Council with an important agenda, with very important themes, I would say, which goes through the greatest challenges not only for the European Union, but also for Europe itself, such as security, terrorism, the question of the greatest humanitarian tragedy of the twenty-first century : the issue of refugee migration as well as the question of growth and competitiveness. It has an agenda that we consider essential, which goes to the heart of the European Union's problems. But perhaps that is why I should like to be ironic, and it is not the fault of either the Prime Minister or the Government, but, in addition to the agenda, which we know in advance, the first question I would like to put to you is about concrete measures, it is about how to do it. Surely we will agree. We will not expect any kind of disagreement with regard to the need for a multifaceted approach to terrorism. We need to repress — for sure! ; it is also necessary to prevent — certainly! ; above all, it is necessary to asphyxiate (without quotes) financially Daesh, who has illicit business, many of them with States that should have greater responsibility in this matter. Only in this way can we effectively combat it, with this multifaceted view of the problem. I would like to ask you, in particular, Mr Prime Minister, about the attacks in Paris and the subsequent intervention by President Hollande, whether the Government and Mr Prime Minister consider French intervention in Syria to be an act of legitimate defence or a pact of aggression or an act of war against a country. In line with the generic approach that has made it necessary to act in three areas — prevention, repression and asphyxiation of the financing of terrorism — it is important and also necessary to clarify that we are on our side: whether we are on the side of our French allies or whether we are in any doubt, some hesitation or some anxiety in this matter. As far as migration is concerned, I would also like to know what position the Portuguese Government intends to take in relation to what is becoming increasingly a debate in the corridor, but with some content and some concern about what will happen to the Schengen area and to the Schengen Treaty itself. There are more and more temptations of generalized and non-exceptional border closures, as Portugal has done twice — Mr. Prime Minister will remember well one and I remember well another. We therefore increasingly resort to this mechanism for what is exceptional. Start being routine! What position will the Portuguese Government take? A position of some comfort in relation to those who wish to restrict Schengen, who wish to suspend and limit Schengen or an opposing position - obviously taking important measures to strengthen security, if necessary by strengthening the exchange of data, exchange of information - to maintain Schengen and the freedom of movement of persons, goods and goods as an essential and fundamental principle of the European Union? We also note that you referred the question of terrorism to the statement by the Heads of State, which generally seems to me to agree with the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy adopted by the previous Government. I ask you whether you intend to go beyond that or whether you think that the measures, from a legislative point of view, are sufficient and that what is now needed is more coordination, more cooperation. Finally, with regard to what was a consensus obtained by the previous Government with the then Socialist Party on the matter of the Information Services, the Prime Minister said — and I agree — that it is important to exchange information to combat terrorism. I would like to know how far the Government and the Socialist Party are engaged or not to provide our Information Services with more and better means, more appropriate to the challenges and threats we have today and to recover what has been considered unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, making an effort to bring a new legislation into line with the doctrine of the Constitutional Court. These are the questions I wanted to put on behalf of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u205	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u206	Mr President, Prime Minister : I would like to ask you four questions on the subject we are discussing. The European Council will discuss the referendum in Britain. We are once again faced with a great deal of conditioning of the opinion of the British people, which they have agreed to call « negotiation ». The political packages that are being negotiated point to more neoliberalism, less workers' rights, more blessings for transnationals and an institutionalization of immigrants' discrimination. The first question I leave to you is whether the Portuguese Government will follow the blackmail and opportunism of the British Government's proposals or whether, on the contrary, it will defend what is right: let the British people pronounce themselves free of pressure and conditioning maneuvers. The second question is about migration. The European Council will discuss a typical war proposal against the victims of war. I would like to ask you whether the Government agrees with the establishment of a European Coastal and Border Guard Agency and, in particular, the creation of a European Coastal Guard with powers of intervention at our country's maritime borders, even without the consent of the Portuguese Government. The third question has to do with combating terrorism. We all agree with the need to combat terrorism. The CFP believes that this fight must begin with the social, economic and political causes and with the end of interventionist and belligerent policy and external interference. We all agree to ensure the safety of our citizens, but security is one thing and it is another. In this respect we wish to know what the Portuguese Government's position on the directive of indiscriminate passenger identification registers, which subject all citizens to the same level of control and surveillance, collecting all their personal data and travel within the European Union, retaining the same information for five years, making it available to supranational security and information agencies. The fourth and final question has to do with the so-called 'deepening of economic and monetary union'. There is a lot of talk going on, but the fact is that what the European Council is going to discuss is the so-called'report of the five presidents', that is, more than that, whose first stage, aimed at deepening the whole process of economic governance, is already in progress. We are faced with a new dynamic which reinforces the mechanisms for the conditioning of budgetary policies in the Member States, the loss of national sovereignty, the institutionalization of austerity and impoverishment policies. The concrete proposals for the establishment of a European budgetary council and national competition councils, consisting of so-called 'experts' and aimed at monitoring the performance of budgetary executions and labour policies, are, in addition to deepening the anti-social and anti-democratic nature of the European Semester and economic governance, a further challenge to our sovereignty and decision-making capacity on policies that respond to the problems of workers and the people and which enable the growth, investment and development of our economy. That is why the question is: do you not consider these new measures, particularly the two concrete measures I have mentioned, to be contrary to sovereign economic development and social justice? That is how Mr. Prime Minister, there is no more Europe. When much, there may be less Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u207	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia from The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u208	Mr President, Prime Minister : On the subject of migration and refugees, what the Greens would like to say is that we cannot, under any circumstances, in any discussion on the subject, fall into the hypocrisy of forgetting the causes, because when the arms business feeds terrorism, when the arms business massacres peoples, that cannot be forgotten. When terrorism fights with bombings that massacre and flee people in search of the possibility of survival, of fleeing to death, Prime Minister, all this is essential that it be discussed when one wants to discuss with rigour and justice the subject of refugees. Therefore, the request made by the Greens is that the causes should never be sidetracked from the discussion. There is another issue that is not present in the European Council but that the Greens consider it essential that they start to be discussed, for the sake of transparency, in all the bodies of the European Union, in particular in the European Council. I am talking about trade and investment liberalization treaties, particularly with the United States of America and Canada, to which people have already been used to listening under the title TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ). Mr. Prime Minister, we're talking about a brutal benefit to multinationals. We are talking about the predictable massive privatization of public services, the privatization of natural goods such as water, seeds, biodiversity. We are talking about the devaluation of work, the reduction of environmental protection and a much more subordinate political power subordinated to a brutal economic and financial power. We are therefore talking about very serious things, which have not been under the aegis of public, wide-ranging and democratic debate. There is a lot of secrecy about this, a lot of lack of transparency, and Portugal must demand this legitimate public debate, which also involves the peoples of the European Union in the discussion of a subject which is crucial to our future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u209	The PS is still in the use of the word, which has entered two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they're going to divide the time available. First of all, Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u210	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by pointing out that this is the first debate specifically on European issues in this House with Mr Prime Minister. This is therefore a good time to stress the change in attitude of the Portuguese Government in Europe, a more committed, less acritical and less resigned attitude. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] In my speech, I will be able to comment on some comments that I have heard today, particularly from the PSD bench, which seem somewhat dislocated to me and even try to change history. When Mr Luís Montenegro here tells us that the idea of the creation of the European Monetary Fund is an idea of the PSD, defended by your predecessor, I am quite surprised. This idea is from the Socialist Party, which has been defending it for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] of the themes of this Council I will pay three, and I begin with the one who, although still undefined, involves potential consequences to the structure and the European project. I refer to the referendum on the UK's stay in the European Union. I believe that it deserves no doubt that we want the British people to choose to remain in the European Union and that we must all make the necessary and possible efforts to do so. If we can adopt proposals that contribute to a better Europe, I think we will all win. For example, proposals that contribute to improving the role of national parliaments in the functioning of the European Union are certainly welcome. It is very likely that solutions can be found that help to safeguard the interests of States that do not participate in the single currency, allowing their positions to be properly considered in the decision-making process. Any understanding that affects the freedom of movement of European citizens or introduces mechanisms of inequality in access to social systems, as it also seems undesirable and unviable to any understanding involving changes to treaties, is already clearly unviable. The second point I would like to mention here, Mr Prime Minister, which was also mentioned in his initial speech, is that of combating terrorism. Portugal must certainly be on the front line in solidarity with the most heavily attacked countries. The operation by France of Article 42. paragraph 7 of the Treaty on European Union deserves support. All efforts being made to strengthen the collection and sharing of information and collaboration between security agencies must be subject to our accession. Thirdly, I would like to mention the subject of refugees and migrants. The possible calm that winter brings us should not create illusions on this issue; this issue will remain in Europe's first line of concerns for a long time. I begin by stressing the talks with Turkey, also mentioned by Mr. Prime Minister, and the action plan adopted at the La Valleta Summit last month. This is an ambitious and comprehensive action plan that should guide us to its various pillars and priorities. I believe that you will agree, Mr Prime Minister, that this is a matter where Portugal is in a position to fully support an action based on the fundamental principles of the European project. Referring specifically to refugees, we are, from the outset, linked to the fulfilment of international humanitarian obligations, also linked to the duty of solidarity between the various Member States, and we are, of course, bound by Mr Prime Minister, to which we agree, in Europe, stable solutions that contemplate the reception and commensurate integration of refugees. Europe has an obligation to receive these people well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u211	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, of the PS, has the floor to continue to intervene in the available time of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time that I have spoken in this Chamber, I would like to address Mr President, who congratulates all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Mr Prime Minister has brought us today a number of initiatives to strengthen the financing of the Portuguese economy. Part of this funding depends on the financial implementation of the Community funds. The parliamentary leader of the PSD, always so attentive to the statements of the Prime Minister and the leader of the Socialist Party, underlined several interventions that over the past few months Mr. Prime Minister, then as the PS leader, did, but he should have stressed that in the presentation of the Government Programme, he said that two years ago — two years ago! — the implementation of this Community framework, only 15 entities had received resources from the incentive system and that of these 15 entities only one is an undertaking. The discussion of the mid-term review of financial perspectives now emerges within the European framework. The instruments of the Community funds are fundamental to an economy such as Portugal, which has suffered a great shortage of capital resources over the past four years and at very high prices. The question that I am asking is objective: how will the Portuguese Government, in view of this review, allow for the cut-off of financing to the Portuguese economy through the Community funds and how will we increase the financing of the Portuguese economy by increasing the necessary financial implementation of the Community funds? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u213	Mr President, the Bureau also welcomes you for your speech and wishes you a great deal of legislation. You will now intervene to end the debate, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with an issue which I could not address in my first speech and which has to do with the issue of referendum in the United Kingdom. First of all, I would like to emphasise the following: I think it is not a good European practice to address internal policy issues and that one of the reasons for weakening Europe as a whole is the systematic and successive recourse by different Member States to European issues to discuss internal policy issues. Secondly, we are old allies of the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is really our oldest ally. But there is politics, there are founding values of the European Union and one of the founding freedoms is freedom of movement. It is therefore unacceptable for us to discuss both freedom of movement and the principle of non-discrimination. I believe that these are two themes and two positions that we have to make very clear in the debate with the United Kingdom because it is absolutely essential to strengthen this principle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have been a great defender of Schengen for many years, and I am proud to have contributed, in fact, to the enlargement of Schengen to its eastern border. I believe that the best way to combat the emergence of xenophobic and nationalist phenomena is neither capitulation nor the surrender of what are fundamental values, is its reaffirmation, and the reaffirmation of the principle of freedom of movement is essential to reaffirm as a guarantee of what is the identity and model of the European Union that we want, which must above all be an area of freedom and, of course, freedom of movement. This concerns a question put by Mrs Catarina Martins that Europe has a duty to protect human beings in it seeking help. We cannot have closed borders for those who seek and ask for help, external borders, internal borders, because we have a duty to solidarity, to welcome and to share those who seek hospitality in Europe. That is why we associate ourselves with those who are available to support Turkey in welcoming and responding to refugees who are going to Turkey or who want to cross it towards Europe. This should be financial support, which is estimated at EUR 24 million, but it must also be more active support that Portugal must have, either by providing technical teams to support the reception, evaluation, tracking and reception of persons seeking help, as well as the increased availability to host refugees who are currently in Turkey. We must never forget that we will always be one of the external borders of the European Union and that, in addition to our humanitarian duty towards human beings, we also have every interest in defending the principle of solidarity of all in defending a common border today. Ten years ago, I was Minister of Internal Administration, I remember very well how the pressure on the external borders of the European Union was made here in Ceuta and Melila. And many of those Member States today who are so distressed and want to build so many new walls to stop the influx of refugees at the time revealed an absolute indifference, in the illusion of the distance to which the Spanish border was relative to their own territory. If there is anything we can be sure that no one is far from each other within the European Union. Our external border is as close to us as the external border of Turkey is close to us. It is a common border, we like it or not, and that is why we must have a common management. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am not a defender, as the Government is not a defender, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, of a European Border Guard Agency, but we are defenders of a coastal guard system that can work, in an interconnected way, with the national capacities of each one at the service of the whole. That's how our Navy has worked on different operations coordinated by Frontex, that's how our Republican National Guard has done it, that's how our Foreign and Border Service has done it and that's how we should continue to do it. And action on the external border is always done in respect of the sovereign will of each of the States, and this must continue to be the case. But I insist, it is in our interest that our Navy, our GNR and our SEF are part of a common system of defence of the European Union's external border that we share today with all our partners who have an external border of the European Union. I believe that an essential issue has to do with the prevention of terrorism and I share with Mrs Catarina Martins the rejection of the dual position we often have. I give several examples and we could add, in fact, the way many offshorers maintain protection in the European economic area, as a good example of this duality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Just as I have no doubt — and I said this in my initial speech — that prevention is the key to combating radicalism and that it does not only go through inter-religious, intercultural dialogue and the promotion of tolerance. Prevention is about to tackle problems in the root that undermine social cohesion, particularly with housing policies and social policies, which have transformed so many peripheries of this Europe into real nursery recruiting Islamic radicalism or extreme-right electorate within Europe. Now, we must combat these radicalisms in its cause, and social integration and cohesion are the best way to prevent all forms of radicalism, whether terrorism, or the strengthening of the extreme right in Europe, which we must all be concerned about, and to which we cannot strike over the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, we must also adopt repressive measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u215	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u216	I shall try to conclude, Mr President, as soon as possible. We are part of the international coalition that responds to Daesh and we must assume all the obligations that proceed there. And of course we recognise to France the legitimacy for the invocation of Article 42 clauses. , paragraph 7 of the Treaty of Lisbon. We understand that we must do so in respect of principles and freedoms. That is why we will always maintain the position that the registration of passengers cannot be done in a way that violates what are the guarantees enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and in the framework of rights, freedoms and guarantees, which must be preserved. Finally, with regard to the report of the five Presidents, I would like to say that it must also be seen in its positive dimension and in its opportunity, in particular, to provide the euro area with its own budgetary capacity, which is absolutely essential to correct the asymmetries that have undermined the ability to converge, grow and create jobs for many peripheral economies and that, by weakening convergence, has made a serious contribution to instability in the euro area itself. Mr President, allow me just to finish by giving two quick answers to Mr Luís Montenegro. First of all, to tell you that for us it is priority and urgent to complete the Banking Union, particularly with a common system of deposit guarantee, Secondly, to tell you that I do not know how you used the expression 'is a very expensive issue' : whether it was in the sense of being very dear to you or whether it was in the sense of being very expensive. But the truth is that it is one of those cases in which the term "face" can, unfortunately, be used in any of the senses. But it must be very dear, because, in any case, your absence is very expensive. Even to finish, I just want to say something more to Mr Luís Montenegro, taking advantage of to wish Mr and the whole House a good Christmas and a happy New Year, because we will probably not meet again this year. Mr Deputy, taking advantage of this Christmas period and this interruption in parliamentary work, invited him to meditate on the following: I have already noted that he is envious of lack of love. Only did I not perceive because of the lack of love of whom: whether because of the lack of love of the PCP by the PSD or because of the lack of love of the PS by the PSD. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u217	That's indispensable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u218	But there's something I think...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u219	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u220	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, envy is not a good counselor and perhaps a good time to catch up with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-16.u221	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the preparatory debate of the European Council and, with this, our work today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. and the next item is the current debate under Article 72. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on school rankings and educational policies ( CDS-PP ). Debates of the European Parliament ( a ) — Special Social Support Programme for the Third Island ( ALRAA ). of the third point is the general discussion of Bill No. 2 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — National strategy for the prevention and control of epidemics of dengue fever ( ALRAM ). in the fourth point discussion-CL will generally be proposed law No. 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increased social protection in maternity, paternity and adoption ( ALRAM ). of the fifth point is the assessment of petition No 441 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Platform against the Park, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to intervene in order to prevent the construction of the underground parking lot in the Square of the Royal Prince. Finally, the joint debate on petition No 457 / XII will take place ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Joaquim Cesario Cardador dos Santos ( Platform « Together by the hospital in the municipality of Seixal » ), requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures for the improvement of health in the municipality of Seixal, including the construction of a hospital and new health centres, and of draft resolutions 42 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent construction of the hospital in the county of Seixal ( PCP ) and 48 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen access to primary health care in the Setúbal Peninsula and the construction of Seixal Hospital ( BE ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 54 minutes.]]
