ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 9 minutes.]] The galleries can be opened. Before we begin the agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions 1552 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by cancelling the privatisations of EMEF and CP Cargo ( PCP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 1553 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2014 ( Committee on European Affairs ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the first item on our agenda on the general debate of Bill No 343 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Code of Criminal Procedure and approves the Statute of the Victim, transposing Directive 2012 / 29 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down rules on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Framework Decision 2001 / 220 / JHA of 15 March 2001. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The victim of the practice of a crime, as it is known, does not currently have an autonomous procedural status. in fact, rights are granted to him, but his exercise must necessarily fall within one of the following three procedural figures: assistant, plaintiff or witness. Through this bill, the Government empowers the victim as a procedural subject with own rights. In this way, the victim may intervene in criminal proceedings in various ways: as an assistant; as a civil plaintiff, he may deduct civil compensation applications, actively participate in the trial hearing with respect to the matter of the civil compensation application, inquiring witnesses concerning this matter and presenting final oral allegations, and may still appeal the sentence in part concerning the civil compensation application; as a witness, contributing to the discovery of the truth and providing testimony on the facts contained in the accusation; as a victim has, inter alia, information and protection rights. These various forms of intervention are not stagnant, insofar as they can be cumulated. If, however, the victim does not take the procedural clothing I referred to, the new procedural status that is recognised allows him to intervene in the process in forms which have not been allowed to do so. On the one hand, this new status is enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure and, on the other hand, it is enshrined in this new legal regime, specifically referred to as the victim's status. in the Code of Criminal Procedure, the victim was provided as a procedural subject and therefore its definition and listing of his rights were introduced in the respective chapter of that legal diploma, however with the assistant or the civil plaintiff. Other rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure have also been amended with regard to specific aspects of procedural processing, in which the intervention of the victim is considered more relevant and relevant. at this point, we highlight the requirement that is contained in articles 212. a 495. that of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in the sense that the victim should be heard about the revocation and replacement of the coercion measure, as well as the repeal of the suspension of the execution of the prison sentence. in fact, these decisions rely on the analysis of circumstances that may be of the personal knowledge of the victim and may have reflection on their situation. It should be noted that this solution was not provided for in Directive 2012 / 29 / EU. However, in the public hearings to which the Government proceeded, this solution was suggested by the Portuguese Victim Support Association in its opinion, which was duly considered by the Ministry of Justice and whose philosophy the Government shared. I should also point out that, in all the matters on which the Ministry of Justice has legislated, the opinions issued by these entities are taken into account in the proper construction of the laws. As regards the legal regime of the status of the victim, it was therefore considered that the status drawn up in the Directive not only includes rights of a strictly procedural nature but, rather, covers other aspects which do not find a seat in the Code of Criminal Procedure — hence our choice for the adoption of a new diploma. It is not an isolated option, since it happened in Spain with the status of the victim. It is stated in the explanatory statement of this bill that it is intended to achieve the widest possible answer to this problem. And the bill that the Government submits naturally follows the directive I have already referred to, but it does not run out. The universal vocation of the victim's status, applicable to victims of all types of crimes, does not separate the specialties of existing and consolidated regimes, with particular emphasis on domestic violence. In addition, the experience gained through the implementation of these special schemes may and should constitute a reference for the weighting of this status. The notion of victim arising from the Directive is here fully and strictly welcomed, as follows from Article 2 ( a ). The diploma. It is therefore the victim of a natural person who has suffered a damage, including an attack on his physical or mental integrity, an emotional or moral damage, or a property damage, directly caused by action or omission, in the context of the practice of a crime. The concept of a particularly vulnerable victim is also incorporated into the bill in line with article 22. that of the Directive. Indeed, in particular in the criminalization of homicides and offences against qualified physical integrity, the sentence applicable to the agent is compounded if the fact is committed against a person manifestly defenceless, due to age, disability, disease or pregnancy. The concept of particularly vulnerable victim is thus widely enshrined. in the definition of the especially vulnerable victim, as resulting from the content of the above-mentioned standard, it was considered the very nature of the crime generating the damage, which is why it was established that these categories integrate the victims of violent crime and particularly violent crime, resulting in an extension of the concept of the directive itself. Again it operates with consolidated concepts in the national legal system, a solution that best responds to the needs of certainty and legal certainty. There is, as has always been, a special concern with children and the sexual abuse of children. Therefore, they are covered by this concept. As for the rights of the victim, they are confined to information, assistance, protection and active participation in criminal proceedings. All these rights are densified in the diploma, and particular emphasis should be placed on the right to information. In fact, until today, the victim was not entitled to information that allowed him to exercise those who existed and who had set up part. It is stated, expressly and clearly, that the victim has the right to be informed about the progress of the process and of all the rights granted to him by this new status. All rights are guaranteed for the victim to be clearly understood, regardless of his or her language or disability. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have stressed on several occasions the central and paradigmatic importance that I attach to the victims and this bill is another step in this direction. To refocus the criminal process and place on its axis the victim of crime, under the full and radical understanding that the criminal process exists and is justified by the need for affirmation and defense of fundamental rights, here is our path, intent and design, on behalf of the victims, as I have always said. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u5	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u6	Madam President, the Minister of Justice, a subject under consideration in the Assembly of the Republic, involving the Government and the Members, implies conditions of suitability for its assessment. Emblematically, we are here today to deal with the subject of the victims and very precisely it is, but I can only point out that, politically speaking, what the Minister of Justice has done over the period of her mandate is to sow victimization situations according to the policies she has developed. It was thus with the judicial map and with the abandonment of a relevant part of the country; it was with the collapse of Citius, whose responsibilities he was unable to assume, imputing them to third parties; and it was thus more recently with the judges themselves, who now appear to be victims of good faith in their relationship with the Minister of Justice. And so that, after all, we could all be informed of how the Minister of Justice interprets her duties, it is now known that she is using public leaders to control the political programme of opposition parties, in particular the Socialist Party programme. I must therefore ask the Minister of Justice a question, and this is a necessary assumption of political responsibility assessment. Mr Minister, on what grounds of legitimacy, in her view, is it ordering the leaders of your Ministry not to assess — I repeat, not to evaluate — the conditions for the concrete implementation of the Government's programme but to assess for the Government the conditions for the enforceability of the electoral programme of an opposition party? The answer to this question is fundamental and the Minister has to give today in Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u7	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u8	Mr President, Mr Jorge Lacão, it is always very bold to make statements when it is not known whether they are true.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u9	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u10	Will it not be ironic for the Socialist Party to speak of using the Public Administration for election purposes? I think it's very, very ironic! [[PS protests.]] Mr President, the leaders who are in the Ministry of Justice, practically, were appointed by you and remained. [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down! Can I keep answering? If you will allow, I will answer; if you will not, I will not answer. It is very simple: the Ministry of Justice has done, does and will continue to monitor all the activities of the Ministry of Justice itself, as it does the monitoring of the initiatives it is aware of by the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u11	It used to be called something else!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u12	What happened, in the context of this monitoring, which is customary, normal and legitimate, according to the brief explanation which was given to me yesterday, was that, having looked at a set of proposals very similar or equal to those we had already done, it was requested, badly — I repeat, it was badly asked — whether there was confirmation that those measures were, or not, carried out. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why. No one has used leaders for election purposes yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u13	What an idea! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u14	What happened was strictly this. We didn't use... Ladies and gentlemen, I do not accept the slightest doubt in terms of character! [[PS protests.]] If I do not accept that the State will pay me, even if the phone, it would use the State for other purposes. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u15	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister of Justice began by answering my question considering that it would be thrown out to make statements without knowing whether they were true and then finally recognized that she had been asked, without saying who, although saying that it was wrong, a set of evaluations by her office. Well, the Minister of Justice ended up in her own reply confirming the truth of what I said. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what I said, Mrs. Minister of Justice, was not done by chance, was done by an assistant from her office, in the name of the head of office in her place, formally requesting, as a matter of urgency, from 19 to 22, the assessment, point by point, of the measures of the Socialist Party's electoral programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u17	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u18	Mr. Minister of Justice, to say in Parliament that this is not instrumentalizing the Public Administration is a total unconsciousness of what is to deal with freely with the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I want to repeat what I have already said: one thing is to ask the leaders to make assessments of the degree of implementation of the Government Programme that is in office — that is their responsibility! — the other thing, which cannot be confused because it is completely different, is to occupy the leaders of the public service with the evaluation of the programmes of the opposition parties, because this is a deviation of functions whose sole responsibility is the Minister of Justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I say to you: if you here today recognise that what has been done, to use your expression, has been wrong, this time you are not going to charge this responsibility to anyone else. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u19	This time it is your responsibility! All yours, and only yours! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It assumes here that it has produced a political error that has no possibility of being overcome but to apologize to the Socialist Party, whose instrumentalization the Minister did, not being able to do so, with her leaders of the Public Administration. I therefore hope that until the end of this debate will have that attitude. But we came here to talk about the status of the victim... [[Also?! It doesn't look like it.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u20	Mrs. Members of the PSD, would you think that, in the face of the instrumentalization of a member of the Government with regard to public administration, the role of Parliament was to remain silent? Oh, my God! Is that what you expected? Shut up, gentlemen! Not with us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Let me therefore refer to the status of the victim to say something very simple: this is merely the transposition of a directive which has already come from 2012 and whose deadline for transposition ends next November. This transposition is completely minimalist, purely formalistic and the result of it is that there is really no increase in the value of the role of the victim as a concrete, operational and valuable status of this condition. In other words, what the Minister brings here is another aspect of reform, without it withdrawing from it really positive and necessary consequences for the status of the victim in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u21	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u22	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u23	For an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u24	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u25	Madam President, we have a very relevant, extremely important item on the agenda, a reform that has been requested by various civil society bodies and entities, the PSD Parliamentary Group and the majority of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u26	Mr President, do you mean what is the procedural question?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u27	I am referring to the fact that, in two speeches, Mr. Jorge Lacão has brought here a subject which is completely strange to what we have on our agenda today...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u28	Mr, this is not the basis for procedural inquiry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u29	Just to say, so...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u30	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u31	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that the Minister for Justice has already denied what Mr Jorge Lacão has accused her of and that the PSD Parliamentary Group and the majority are perfectly prepared to...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u32	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u33	... discuss the issue that brings us here today, which is the status of the victim. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no reason to ask the Bureau for any reference to a discursive content on which the Bureau has no executive power. [[Supported!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u35	Mrs. Members, continuing the debate, I give the floor to Mr. João Lobo...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u36	Madam President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u37	Mr. Jorge Lacão, an interpellation at the table does not necessarily have a dialectic. I would ask you to be very brief for the next speaker. Have the floor, Mr. Jorge Lacão.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u38	Madam President, thank you very much. In a very simple way, in the manner of interpelting at the table and for the good progress of the work, I mean that Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has just mentioned in the interpellation that I had made statements denied by the Minister. Now, I have proof here of what I have said and if Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim insist that they have been denied, please come here and consult this document. You're at your disposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u39	Let us now continue the debate, giving the floor to Mr. João Lobo.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u40	Madam President, Minister, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I was summoned to discuss the victim's issues and that this was the cause of our presence here today. After all, for the Socialist Party, it was understood that political issues were overshadowed about the victim. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u41	It is not the Minister who should apologize to the Socialist Party, it is the Socialist Party who should apologize to the victim, which is the reason for this intervention. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma in question, which does not prejudice the measures provided for in criminal and criminal law, nor measures provided for in other diplomas designed to protect victims of specific crimes, constitutes a remarkable civilizational leap, either in the Community legal system or in the national legal system. The diploma establishes a new conformation and an autonomous enhancement of the figure of the victim of the crime, with the inherent recognition of a set of rights, granting of support and protection measures that influence the status, now recognised, of the victims of the crime are considered and recognised with respect and dignity, endowed with a complex of rights and guarantees that enable them to access to justice, which values and identifies their specific needs, maximum in the field of restorative or reprisinatory justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u42	That doesn't exist today!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u43	You will exist with the law, sir! Our Constitution does not recognize a victim's status. Article 32 ( 7 ). it is so established that « The offender has the right to intervene in the proceedings, in accordance with the law. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The material area covered by the Directive refers us to a relatively recent new regulatory framework, which is welcomed by the Council of Europe, at the level of the European Union and its Charter of Fundamental Rights, a complex and replicative regulatory framework, which is evolving and improving and does not in any way dispense the necessary contribution of the European Union. Justice is not now primarily asked to condemn the perpetrator of the crime; it is also asked, with increasing insistence, to be able to restore the situation of the injured victim. In short, it calls for a new and autonomous status and thus for the adaptation of the criminal procedural rules that lead to this result, all without prejudice to the rights and guarantees of the defendant. Even in the European legal systems of reference, as accepted in the technical note, the levels of protection requested by supranational sources are not satisfied, and the victim being considered the « great forgetfulness of justice ». The new regulatory framework aims to meet differentiated needs from those who have been the victim of a crime, in the light of their autonomous and specific condition, and to address, in the different plans in which social life is revealed, the harmful consequences that result for people who, directly or indirectly, have suffered emerging harm from the practice of a crime. from there the necessary complex and heterogeneous nature of the statute, from there its plethora of sedimentation and from there also its autonomous consideration. in the context of the purposes to be pursued, the proposal highlights the addition of a new Title IV to Book I, of the first part of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the heading « Victim », as set out in Article 67. o -A, where the concept of victim is defined, being that the damage is understood, even as an example, injury in physical or mental integrity, emotional or moral damage or property damage directly caused by action or omission, in the context of the practice of a crime. the concept of the victim still welcomes the family members of a person whose death has been directly caused by a crime and who have suffered damage as a result of the death of a person. The concept of a particularly vulnerable victim is defined and enshrined with a new dimension, considering for this purpose a child under 18 years of age. Victims of violent crime and particularly violent crime are considered particularly vulnerable. It is to be commended that victims are assisted by the rights of information, assistance, protection and active participation in the criminal proceedings, which are densified in the status of the victim, integrated in this bill and, as such, the victim is entitled to cooperate with the competent police and judicial authorities, providing information and providing evidence that is necessary for the discovery of the truth and good decision of the case. In addition, the Code of Criminal Procedure is amended to confer more and important procedural rights on the victim: his intervention is admitted as an assistant within the time limit for the appeal of the sentence; he is guaranteed to be heard, even if he has not been an assistant; his hearing on the revocation, amendment and termination of the coercion measures; he simplifies the form of the complaint; the complainant is guaranteed the right of the Portuguese language not to know or dominate the Portuguese language of that power to be presented in a language that understands; he innovates the communication, registration and certificate of the complaint, ensuring that the certificate must be delivered to the victim, irrespective of the requirement; he establishes the right of hearing of the victim by the investigating judge, even in the absence of an assistant constitution and whenever the victim so requests; he guarantees the hearing of the victim prior to the proliferation of the order that he considers the failure to comply with the conditions of suspension of the penalty. The Advocates' Order has already issued an opinion concluding that the bill, and I quote, «should be worthy of our approval». It should also be said that the Directive is composed in its dimensions, which is extravagant from a strictly procedural framework and that in its binding spectrum, in several areas, it is already complied with within the framework of national legislation, in particular in the field of the protection of children, young people and, in the field of domestic violence, in the context of avulsive legislation and in various provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as is the case under Article 82. o -A, which allows the court, even without having been deducted from civil compensation in criminal proceedings or separately, to assign to the injured an amount, as compensation for the damage suffered, where particular protection requirements of the victim impose it. In any case, rights are now strengthened and developed in many areas. The proposed law now meets a fundamental objective of justice, fulfils the obligations of transposition and contributes to Portugal, in this area, to be endowed with a modern, appropriate and effective regulatory framework that protects victims of crime, which has so far not been available and which is in the most demanding standards in the area under consideration. The PSD Parliamentary Group shall, for the reasons set out above, monitor and vote in favour of this legislative initiative. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u44	Mrs. Members, before we proceed, I inform Parliament that we have in the Diplomatic Tribune the President of the National Council of the Swiss Parliament, accompanied by a group of Members, to whom we welcome [[General applause, stand up.]] As the debate continues, I give the floor to Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u45	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mrs. Members: In fact, this debate began under the sign of victimization, not exactly as it was supposed, because what we have to discuss today is the bill that is presented to us today, on the status of the victim, but the truth is that the Minister has often guided her speech in this House by assuming for herself the status of victimization and usually thinking that everyone owes her an apology. And it is also true that the Socialist Party, in political terms, is right about what has aroused here. Indeed, it does not make the slightest sense that the Public Administration is used to monitor the programmatic proposals of the opposition parties, so the parties will have their study offices. The PSD, the CDS, together or separately, if they want to monitor and carefully study the proposals made by the opposition parties, are in the right to do so, which makes no sense that the Public Administration is diverted from its functions and that its efforts for such political-party actions are channelled. And the answer that the Minister here has given is not taken, because the fact that the Director-Generals of the Ministry have already been appointed by the Socialist Party "does not warm or cool" on the matter of substance, which is whether or not the directors-general should perform this function, but it has finally implicitly assumed that they do so and, if they do so, they should not do so. But what brings us to this debate is in fact the proposal for a law on the status of the victim here, which is proposed to us, transposing, in fact, a directive of the European Union. First of all, it must be said that the issue is indeed relevant, indeed, it is not by chance that it is the subject of a directive. In fact, in Portuguese legislation there is still a lack of consideration of the victim in criminal proceedings at various levels. Indeed, the application of criminal justice in Portugal, obviously assuming the existence of victims, because, in principle, in the overwhelming majority of types of crime, there is a specific victim or victim of the criminal fact, has been thought of in terms of the punishment of the criminal, as is evident, and cannot fail to be. But the sensation that exists for many victims of crimes and in Portuguese society in general is that the victim is not sufficiently protected, and this explains, in some ways, some black figures that exist in crime, particularly in the most common crime and that affects more people. There are also many people who understand that it is not worth complaining, because the person who makes a criminal complaint sometimes ends up having more concerns than the perpetrator himself. Therefore, there is some reluctance of many people to complain, to participate, considering that they won't earn anything with it and sometimes the criminal is not even punished and is the very person who has just ended up in a fight, having to lose working days and have to travel without tangible results. On the other hand, it is also consensual that there is a lack of protection in Portuguese legislation, in particular in terms of compensation for the damage suffered by victims, particularly from the psychological point of view. There are people who are sometimes deeply traumatized because they have been victims of crimes and do not have the support that it would be fair for them to be granted by the State. So often the criminal is placed when it is possible to do so, but the victim’s situation is forgotten. On the other hand, even in procedural matters, it is consensual that there is some lack of consideration for the role the victim should have. However, in this proposal for a law which seeks to transpose the directive, if it is true that some progress is being made, particularly in the area of amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is also true that, when it is sent to an annexed diploma, a sort of, I would say, letter of rights of the victims, it must be pointed out that this letter of rights does not have a legislative translation enabling it to be effective in the diplomas in which it was necessary to have it. I will give just one example: when you say that the victim has the right to legal support, but then you refer to the law of legal support, we must conclude that, in this case, nothing is going on, because our law of judicial support, from our point of view, is clearly deficient. There are many people who, due to the lack of economic means, should have legal assistance and do not have and therefore those people are denied justice due to lack of economic means, and these people, being victims of crimes, do not see their problem solved, because they do not have legal assistance, and will continue to have no, even though they are victims of crimes. Therefore, whether the legislation on legal aid is substantially amended or not it is useful to say that the victims of crimes are entitled to legal support under their respective law. If substantial changes are not made in the diplomas, in this annex, so that the status of the victim will, of course, give us a very positive diploma from the proclaiming point of view, but then, as regards its concrete effectiveness, we continue to have very worrying deficits. We believe, however, that we are faced with a work base and that it is important, in spite of everything, that this status of the victim exists. We do not deny its importance. Now, an effort must be made in the work that is still ahead to ensure that this status of the victim is transposed into the respective diplomas, so that in fact it has greater effectiveness than will happen if certain consecrations remain only in that statute and have no other legislative translation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u46	You now have the floor to Mrs Teresa Anjinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u47	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are going to talk about what we have to talk about, i.e. the victims, with responsibility and serenity, far from the words exalted by Mr Jorge Lacão, who, in my view, can only be justified in a heavy conscience in view of what they have not done in the past, but we have already arrived there. [[All right!]] [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u48	We are indeed living a turning point with regard to the recognition of the role and rights of victims of crime. A moment which, in fact, has a long preamble in the international space, in the European space, but also in the national space. The diploma that we discussed today, in making amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure—including empowering the concept of victim, as, indeed, Mrs. Minister, the CDS proposed and defended in 2010, in presenting in this House a bill—and in adopting a victim's status, aims to transpose into the domestic legal order a directive of 2012, which undoubtedly represents a step forward in what is the matter of rights, support and protection of victims of crime. The European Union, in an estimated scenario of about 75 million victims per year and also in view of the unsatisfactory results resulting from the implementation of the 2001 Framework Decision — a decision which, in addition, in favour of historical memory, resulted from a Portuguese initiative, during the Presidency of the European Union in 2000 — did not give up and now presents to all Member States a stronger, broader and more detailed legal instrument. This path, which has been going on as a whole also our path (there have already been several reforms made in this regard and here I can mention, for example, from the figures of the offender and the assistant to the enlargement and exacerbation of crimes such as domestic violence) will be clearly reinforced with this initiative. at this point, it seems important to us to clarify that it is not at stake to refocus the purposes of the criminal proceedings or even to change its main actors, which are, and will continue to be, the state and the defendant. Yes, it is intended to deepen the repairing function of criminal law and thus to give the victim greater centrality as a subject of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u50	In short, it is intended to promote recognition of the status of victims and their role, to ensure a treatment based on respect and professionalism and to give them a set of rights in criminal proceedings, which is appropriate to minimize what we often talk about here, i.e. secondary victimization. I say this so as to make it very clear that, when we speak in recognition of the rights of the victims, no confrontational binomy between the defendant and the victim is at stake. The recognition of the rights of the victims, of course, does not imply limitation on the rights of the defendants. Now, the truth is this: your non-recognition, as has happened for a long time, is undoubtedly translated! — in failing to achieve the true objective of criminal justice, either in its ideal sense or in its material dimension as a rule of law, based on respect for the dignity of the human person. However, the directive in question, while recognizing and respecting the enormous heterogeneity that persists in the systems that make up the European scenario, raises this objective, more robustly, to a common design, establishing a minimum level of rights. This bill, in an already favourable context, as I have just mentioned, again responds positively to this further challenge in relation to the protection of the victim, being emphasized the extension of the concept, which begins to cover the relatives of the direct victims of certain crimes (very relevant, for example, in relation to domestic violence) and the extension of the deadline for the establishment of assistants. However, in this area, and it must be said that, since the directive itself gives notice of this, so important are the legislative changes such as the surrounding praxis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u52	... given that the implementation of many of the rights will eventually depend more on the procedures, on training, as we have mentioned and bet on, at various levels, particularly on domestic violence, and on the awareness of the public itself, than on legislative activity itself. In this regard, the APAV has recently carried out — indeed, in February — an investigation into the Portuguese perception of the rights of victims of crime, the results of which I consider to be worthy of our reflection. For example, more than half of the Portuguese do not know who the victim is in a crime situation. In short, the study concludes that there is, in fact, a trend towards the widespread recognition of the rights of victims of crime, also the result of a lot of investment at this level, but, on the other hand, a slightly lower perception of the application, in practice, of these same rights. I will conclude by taking the opportunity to move on to a strengthened model of inclusion, respect and recognition of rights. I have no doubt in saying that today we are taking a step forward, in fact ending with a certain differentiation, currently existing, and that it was due to a partial transposition of the framework decision of 2001, which I have already referred to for the first part of Law 112 / 2009, known as the Statute of the Victim of Domestic Violence. Mr Jorge Lacão, the honourable Member says that this transposition today is minimalist.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u53	Everybody says!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u54	I think that minimalist was what actually happened in 2009. Of course, I am not going to take a negative view in relation to the Statute of the Victim of Domestic Violence, but it is absolutely necessary! — to ensure the uniform application of rights which, at that time, have been thought and framed for all victims of crime, in order to prevent the possibility of even a perception of victim hierarchies. The solutions found between the national legislative acquis and the European impulse therefore deserve our greeting, having, of course, and as always, the Minister, all the willingness to debate in the field of possible clarifications. In other words, it is not, of course, a door that is closed — also going to meet Mr António Filipe's words — it is a door that is still open in the name of justice. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u55	You now have the floor to Mrs Cecilia Honorio.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u56	Madam President, Minister for Justice, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I would really like to discuss with the Minister of Justice this important legislative initiative on the status of the victim—it is a matter on which we had already raised that we were in time to do so—but I cannot help but avoid some questions about one aspect, finally, very negative that we were aware of today. Using public administration tables to monitor programs of opposition parties is unacceptable. It seems to me that you have here made a sort of apology, in order to say that this is wrong, but in any case, Mrs Minister, perhaps this is the occasion to explain to us whether the Minister has not given the indication, whether it has been her head of office or who is giving such guidance, and, in any event, what it will do, as it will act with respect to such an action, which does not make any kind of sense. We cannot, of course, have the Public Administration or its leaders to do such tasks. Finally, we also know some of your apologies, which then do not necessarily have coherent consequences and that is why I leave these questions to you, on which you still have the opportunity to give us some clarification. The subject we are discussing today is indeed very important, even if it is concluded that the law is more or less arguidocentric, and there is a big debate on this issue. It is clear that the victims continue to be unprotected in our country, and this bill is a significant step forward, because in the current framework, to constitute themselves, in particular, as assistants, it is necessary to pay the legal costs, that is, it is a very expensive process. What does this bill do? It is committed to Directive 2012/29 on the rights of support for victims of crime — we are in the temporary framework for this same transposition — and it is proposed to provide hegemony with the status of the victim, empowering the concept in the Code of Criminal Procedure, thus extending the scheme of assistants, so that they can apply for the status within the time limit of the application of the sentence, including in the rights to active participation in the criminal proceedings, and this option is, from our point of view, very important. at the same time, it is chosen to form the set of rights provided for in the Directive in an autonomous regime, which is set out in the Annex, and which, of course, has a strong parallel with Law 112/2009 itself, as has been registered here. There are those who place the problem in the systematic, i.e. because they do not register in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in other laws related to the subjects of the Directive. I think this is something we deserve to think about. In any case, and welcoming this initiative and its importance for the protection of victims, trying to overcome this paradigm that it is difficult and expensive to take advantage of this status, I would like to leave some questions concerning aspects that seem less ambitious to us, either in the transposition of the Directive, or in the exhaustive work that APAV has done and in the recommendations that it has left us, which, in fact, I want to welcome as well. For example, with regard to Article 8. , it seems to us that there is an incomplete transposition here as regards an aspect and a consecrated right, which is that of free access to confidential services. in Article 12. there is a lack of concrete measures in relation to the framework of restorative justice as provided for in the Directive itself. There are still some ambiguities which can be corrected with regard to the communication guarantees envisaged and the expenditure scheme is, of course, a sensitive matter. As has already been pointed out, reporting to the system of judicial support is very limited if we want to give — and I suppose it will be your intention — this status to the dignity and the value it deserves exactly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u57	Mr Jorge Lacão has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Reiterating that the identification of victims with special needs, the whole theme of restorative justice and the participation of the victim in criminal mediation proceedings, the whole question of access to law and judicial support are absolutely nuclear issues for an effective construction of a status of the victim. I would like the Government or the majority to respond if these matters find a precondition for transposition of the Directive and an efficient innovation so that the status of the victim is worthy of this name. We don't find these solutions and we keep waiting for someone to lead us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u59	Having entered again, Mr. João Lobo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To mention only that this is a very complex matter, which requires, as far as possible, a slight appreciation, arrest and specific consideration. These are complex, transversal matters, which necessarily imply a convergence of wills to find the best solution and to satisfy the nuclear interests of a statute which today is almost constitutional in the Community Europe, the Court of Justice of Human Rights and also in the Portuguese courts, but which still do not have in our Constitution. Perhaps we need to consider these matters and remember that the status of the victim is enshrined in the subjects already referred to by the Minister but also in the status itself, which are far beyond the scope of the guarantee and the rights of the victims, in addition to the requirements of the minimum standards of the Directive. Surely, in the specialty, we will all converge in the search for the best solutions that serve this maximum interest in pay justice that is the reprisal satisfaction of the victims and the consideration of their fundamental rights. This is a matter of extreme relevance to society, since the pacification of society also requires that the victim be considered as a star centre, along with the defendant, but without prejudice to it, of our social dimension. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u61	The general debate on Bill No 343 / XII ( 4 ) is concluded. ( a). Thank you to all of us. Members who participated in it as well as the Minister of Justice. We're waiting for the ladies. Members of the Government see themselves at the bench for a new theme and I ask you to do so. Ladies and gentlemen who take their places back. I congratulate Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget, who is already present for the debate on the next item on our agenda, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 329 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Financial Framework Act and 191 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 79 / 98 of 24 November approving the framework for the autonomous region of the Azores ( ALRAA ) and draft law No 1011 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — To create a budget which no longer imposes austerity on the country ( the ninth amendment to Law No 91 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 — Budget Framework Act ) ( BE ). To submit Bill No 329 / XII ( 4. ( a), I give the floor to Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are starting the debate on the structuring issue of public finances, which is related to the proposed budget framework law, which is a key pillar for improving the quality and control of Portuguese public accounts. Portugal has in recent years taken significant steps in the field of public finances in quantitative and qualitative terms. Still, there is much to do to improve the quality of public finances in Portugal. The proposed law currently under discussion was based on the preliminary draft submitted by the Reform Commission of the Budget Framework Act, constituted for this purpose in mid-2014. This Commission has been coordinated by Prof. Guilherme d’Oliveira Martins and has collaborated with a team of specialists in the budgetary area, both the Public Administration and other institutions, such as the Council of Public Finance, the Banco de Portugal and higher education institutions. It also benefited from a set of work already carried out, as well as from reports produced by other entities, of which the technical assistance provided by the International Monetary Fund at the end of 2013 is highlighted for this purpose. The Budgetary Framework Act (LEO) is a key piece for the organisation, presentation, debate, approval, implementation, monitoring and control of the State budget. After more than 13 years of LEO, with eight major amendments, many of them dictated by the financial difficulties resulting from a rather uncertain international framework and having the State living a Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance, as well as its compliance with the commitments made by Portugal in the European context, it is time to undertake a fundamental reform of the current budgetary system, in order to meet the increasing requirements in terms of control of public expenditure, budgetary transparency, accounting and the State budget. Despite all the changes that have been made over the years, we know today that there are issues that need to evolve towards closer to best practices in budgetary matters. I would like to point out a few points that deserve reflection and to which the proposed law now under discussion seeks to answer. Among other things, LEO systematic disaggregated as a result of successive changes; fragmented budget planning cycle; still incipient programme budgeting; limited spending limits; budgetary fragmentation, both at the methodological level, at the organizational level and at the accounting level; deficit accounting system. In view of this, the proposed law now being discussed seeks to respond to some of the criticisms that are often referred to in our budgetary procedure, so in terms of amendment, I stress, firstly, the harmonisation of the budgetary planning process. in this sense, we seek to harmonise the budgetary timetable by linking it to the key dates of the European Semester. Thus, two essential moments of the budgetary cycle are suggested: first phase, updating of the stability programme, accompanied by the proposals of Great Options of the Plan and the Plurianual Budget Framework, on 15 April; second stage, giving to the Assembly of the Republic of the proposed State Budget Act by the following year until 1 October. In addition, in terms of the provision of accounts, the delivery of the General Account of the State is anticipated in one month from June to May. Secondly, the programme budgeting is effective. The advantage of budgetary programmes is that they allow to evaluate the efficiency of public expenditure, since they allow them to compare the results achieved with the resources used. The information provided by the budget programmes should enable the evaluation of the cost of public policies and should be based on the decision of each sectoral minister in relation to the allocation of public resources allocated between programmes, depending on their greater or lesser efficiency. in this sense, it will be necessary to ensure that program budgeting is effectively focused on obtaining results that may be evaluated using a set of indicators of results considered appropriate and relevant. This objective aims to contribute to a paradigm shift in the functioning of public administrations, giving a concrete, quantifiable and evaluable contribution to the principle of economic efficiency and efficiency, while increasing budgetary transparency. It should be noted that the success of this orientation greatly affects the redefinition of the role of the Ministry of Finance and sectoral ministries throughout the budget cycle. Thirdly, contribute to reducing budget fragmentation, increasing the responsibility of sectoral ministries throughout the budgetary process and changing the role of the Ministry of Finance in budgetary management and control. in this sense, the figure of the managing entity of the budgetary programs is created. Fourthly, in the accounting field, emphasis is placed on the financial and management report, alongside the budget report. in this sense, we have financial statements together with budgetary statements. in preparing provisional financial statements, the economic and financial impact of policy decisions is incorporated into the budget documentation and not just of treasury, thus increasing transparency. The creation of the State ( ECE ) accounting entity in the proposed law aims to recognize, in accordance with the method of splits and in accordance with the principle of increase, income tax, direct debt of the State, interest of that debt, financial instruments of the State, concession contracts and other transactions that are re-conducted to the State as a sovereign entity, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Finally, with regard to the promotion of budgetary transparency, it will allow the simultaneous and timely reporting of developments in public accounts, both in public and in national accounts. Despite the proposed amendments, there is still a set of rules that remain. Thus, the regulations on the transposition of the Budget Treaty are not amended, only an interpretative rule is added to incorporate the interpretations which may be considered by the European Union. Nor have the powers of the Assembly of the Republic with regard to budgetary amendments changed, as well as the joint audit and budgetary control. Despite the fact that the law can be adapted over time, it is pointed out that there is a perfect awareness of the bodies involved in this process of the need to outline a transitional regime that allows public administrations to accommodate and apply a plan of constant requirements in this bill. in this sense, and taking into account the change in the paradigm in budgetary management, as well as all the amendments to the budgetary procedure that take place here, the bill provides for an extended implementation period. In addition, the establishment of the implementation unit of the law will have as its responsibility the development of all the elements necessary for the full implementation of the bill and create the conditions for the 2019 budget to be developed taking into account this new legal reality. We believe that the project that is now being discussed closes in itself structural elements that enhance the quality of public finances in Portugal, contributing to the increased efficiency of public spending, together with greater rigour in the use of public money, factors that will contribute to raising public and political discussion about the options followed by governments regarding the allocation of public resources for the implementation of public policies. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u63	The Bureau registered four Members for requests for clarification, to which the Secretary of State will answer together. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u64	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State of the Budget, I am essentially in accordance with the way in which you started the presentation of this legislative initiative of the Government by saying that the Budget Framework Act is a structural diploma, it is even an essential matter of what is sometimes referred to as financial constitutional law. The current Budget Framework Act dates from 2001, a government of which I had the honour to be part of. It has been changed several times over these years, as it has pointed out, and this has never hampered two questions: firstly, to which successive governments, based on the current Budget Framework Act, followed the budgetary policies which they considered appropriate, and, on the other hand, it was always understood that this was a matter that would justify time reflection, deep work and a desirable broad consensus. This is the starting position of the Socialist Party on this matter. This is also, as you know, the position we had with regard to the three amendments to the current Budget Framework Act which have been discussed throughout this legislature. So, Mr Secretary of State, I see myself faced with the duty to ask you a question that is essential: does the Secretary of State know when we are? Are you aware that we are one week from the end of the work of new legislative measures in this four-year legislature? Does it make sense, Mr Secretary of State at the moment to come forward, not an amendment, but to such a new Budget Framework Act that the Government, for four years, has promised, has marked dates, has announced and has not done so? Does it make sense to do so now, with an implementation based on a technical unit, which did not explain what it was, with three offices: an executive office, a technical office and a project management and coordination office? What's this? Is it a new Ministry of Finance? Is it a new Directorate-General for Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u65	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u66	And it is noticed that these entities will be regulated for six months to one year and that this is a law which, as you said, is intended to apply fully to the 2019 budget. These are the questions I cannot but ask you, Mr Secretary of State. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u67	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u68	Mr President, Secretary of State of the Budget, the Government's perspective on the preparation of the State budgets — and already there are 12, including corrections — is always the same. First, the money is guaranteed to promote the big capital, only then does the people and the country see what is left. First, the Government guarantees money to pay public debt interest, to pay public-private partnerships, to support the numerous tax benefits granted to economic and financial groups, to reduce taxes to large companies, to pay speculative swaps. Then you will soon see if what remains is enough to pay wages, pensions, social benefits or to finance the social functions of the State. And since it is not enough, Mr Secretary of State, workers are fired, social and labour rights are liquidated, they are cut in the National Health Service and in the public school, taxes on workers and the people are increased. The PCP defends a diametrically opposite perspective. Measures must be laid down to ensure the improvement of the living conditions of workers and the people and the economic and social development of the country, and the necessary means must be found to achieve them. Salaries and pensions, social benefits, adequate financing of State social functions, maintenance of public services, public investment must be guaranteed. And it is possible to find the necessary funds, eliminating income, privileges and benefits from the large capital, through the renegotiation of public debt, the reversal of public-private partnerships, the elimination of the tax benefits of large economic groups and large business and the adoption of a fiscal policy that adequately taxes the large capital. Mr Secretary of State, with this bill, what the Government wants to go further in institutionalizing its budgetary perspective favouring large capital at the expense of the rights and income of workers and the people. There is no single measure in this bill, a single standard that will put an end to the benefits of the large economic and financial groups. There is not a single measure which prevents, for example, that the Government continues to grant tax benefits of EUR 445 million, as it did with the New Bank, illegally, obscurely and without yet providing any clarification on this matter. I would ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to take advantage of your presence here today to clarify this tax forgiveness to the New Bank, telling you exactly what your amount is, what taxes have been forgiven and what rules and laws have been covered. And say, Mr Secretary of State, where is this Budget Framework Act proposed by the Government to put an end to these mordomies to the bank and to the large capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u70	Mr Secretary of State, what the Government intends to condition is the preparation of the future budgets of the State, imposing as the only way to continue the promotion of the great economic and financial interests at the expense of workers and the people. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u71	You have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u72	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a very direct question and then make a more general comment on the diploma. The very direct question, and what happens to this new unit of implementation of the Budget Framework Act which will be in force in the coming months—has six months to be regulated—is the following: how much does this technical unit cost? What is the government's forecast? What is the composition, from the point of view of the technicians, of the three offices proposed? How much does this technical unit cost, and what is it actually going to do? How does it fit with the other State bodies — the Ministry of Finance, the other Ministries and the Directorate-General for Budget? Are you going to stand over the Ministries and give orders to the Directorate-General of the Budget? What is she gonna do in concrete? I must say that it is not understood in the diploma in question, nor did the Secretary of State in his speech make any explanatory statement about this measure. But it is important to know how much it costs, what it will do, how it will be integrated into the entire structure of the state. I leave a more general question to tell us where in the Government's will is the defence of public investment of quality and the guarantee that the government — the future government, because this does not have a big word in this case — will not break the word in the contracts it has entered into with workers, pensioners, and citizens in the fulfilment of the essential public services of the social state. This proposal comes with the IMF's chance and blessing to ensure that, in this law, as regards cutting, the State is plenipotentiary. with regard to fulfilling the duties, with the citizens, what this proposal says is that the priority is always for the financial part, it is always for the interests of the large economic groups. These are the choices and priorities of the government, but not with regard to a rationalisation of public expenditure. Mr Secretary of State, for four years now the government has been in office, for four years now that this Budget Framework Act says that there should be a basic zero budget process to streamline the State's expenditure and, four years later, we do not even see white smoke on the application of that zero base budget. We know that this government will no longer do so and what it could and should do, rationally and in thought, to balance the state's expenditure with its revenue and to frame it in a good functioning of the State and in a good provision of services to the people, we have seen that the government has done nothing. I conclude, Mr Secretary of State, by asking whether, after all, this rethinking of the Budget Framework Act is to cut just because this is the only conclusion we can draw. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u73	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u74	Mr President, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you two questions about this bill, because it is indeed structural and extremely important, since it is a substantive proposal. The first has to do with the form of the proposal. It is indeed important that the law coming out of here, which will take four years to be implemented and that we want to have vigor for at least a decade, as it is obvious, collects an extended consensus. As the main basis for an extended consensus, it seems to me, not so much the time when the proposal is presented, but the time it was built, the opening with which it was built, and the people who were heard and its scope to build it, my first question is exactly this: how was the work for the realization of this proposal and how far are they mirroring what is the reflection that is made by specialists in this matter? Secondly, I am asking a question which is a lot more substance and which has to do with budgeting for programmes. Mr Secretary of State, on the objective of programme budgeting we have heard many times. Unfortunately, however, this objective is sometimes treated in a way, from my point of view, excessively formal and very little material in what it has to do with choices. And it was this philosophical change that asked him if this bill closes. This question relates to the zero base budget and the philosophy underlying it, because one thing is, when we are talking about the budget, to ask how much the services spent last year and then we will see, incrementally, whether they will spend more or whether there will be cuts in what they will spend. This is a way of looking at the budget. A completely different way of looking at the budget comes by asking each Ministry what you want to do this year, what are the essential functions you want to perform, what are the objectives, what are the changes you want to introduce, and then we will ask how much each of these programmes costs. This allows us, on the one hand, to introduce a criterion of responsibility, i.e. the same person who designs the programme, who is responsible for it, knows how much it costs and is therefore held responsible if it does not work or if something does not work well, but on the other hand also allows what is actually done to serve the budget or at least one of its essential functions. If resources are scarce, and we know that they are, we choose between goals, we choose between programs, those that are most important to do this year and those that we can dispense with. This is a much more logical, much more transparent and even more democratic way to allocate resources than, systematically, to record everything, to say that we will do everything and then there will be no allocation for things.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u75	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u76	So my question, very material, is that it explains to us how this programme budget can become a material reality, because it is the core of what the budget is. The Budget is a democratic way of making choices between objectives, because being the scarce resources and being them, of course, the money that...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u78	Mr President, thank you very much. I would obey and conclude immediately. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u79	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Budget have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u80	Mr President, given the time I have and attaching the answers, or at least a few, I begin by answering the first question put to me by Mr. PS Member, Dr. Eduardo Cabrita, linking it to the question posed by Dr. Cecilia Meireles, of the CDS. In fact, the government is working until the last day it is in office and so what we are presenting here today is a law that is structural. The deadline for its implementation is extended, which means that there is no conditionality, from the Budget Framework Act, of the political options that any government that wishes to take.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u81	The problem is the four years back!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u82	What is, in fact, a complete structural and methodological change in the preparation of the budget. This also relates to programme budgeting. Programme budgeting actually looks at the ends rather than the means. More than knowing how much money we have to spend, it is interesting to know what it is necessary to do, how much money is necessary to do so and, in view of that, to know what options we have. On the issue raised by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, Member of the Left Block, the drawing up of a programme budget closes almost zero. In other words, when drawing a programme it will have implied a zero-based budget. It is true that until today, practically, zero-based budgeting has never been used, as was provided for in the law; it has always been made a budget based on what were the budgets we had, increasing and choosing the options. But the real organisation of a programme budget closes in itself a zero base budget. The idea is to know how much it costs to make this policy, what resources are needed and what are the objectives that are intended to be achieved. With regard to the work being presented today, it actually reflects a fairly broad discussion at the level of the working groups that have been set up, of the national and international organisations that have been heard, so as to be a structural law, to constitute what the country needs so that, from the point of view of the credibility of our public accounts, it will improve in this matter. As for the technical unit, which was also spoken, the idea is not that there is an increase in expenditure here with this Implementation Unit, but that it has a set of people that result from all the entities we have in the Public Administration, representative of the Public Administration. in the background, what we have today is an embryo of a set of hundreds of changes that will have to be made and for which it is the workers of the Public Administration who have to collaborate and must work in this direction. It is called Implementation Unit, it is broken down, but Article 4. it says what are the competences and what are the tasks it will have. What we have is a unit that has to monitor, day by day, the implementation of everything that is planned, if we want to take the law that is here to good use. And this unit has to look like what you're doing to this House too, if you understand. Article 4. it can be changed, as well as all the articles contained in the bill, because what is intended is a good law for the country, because that is what counts, so we are available to correct what, however, is understood to be needed to correct. Mr Paulo Sá, in fact, there are a number of questions that do not directly have to do with the Budget Framework Act and that is not what we are discussing today, but there is also no article that says what is paid first and what is paid afterwards. What the State has to do is pay all the commitments it has and there is no article in the Law that makes reference to exactly the one first to pay debt instead of wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u83	Don't pay for wages and pensions!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u84	There is no article referring to this, which means that I have nothing more to say on this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u85	What about the New Bank? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u86	To present the bill of the Left Block which is also under discussion, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Secretary of State, I must tell you that on the technical unit presented, Mr Secretary of State did not specify. And Article 4. the, in its six, seven points is extremely succinct, so succinct that says exactly that within 180 days there will be a decree-law, that will be issued by the government, that will say what it does, as it is composed, and how its three cabinets will be connected to each other. But it did not respond to the essential, that is, how it will then be placed in the management of the State. Are we creating a budgetary police for the implementation of the Budget Framework Act here? Is that what? What is the hierarchical scale, how does it connect to the various ministries, to the Directorate-General, to the Directorate-General for Budget? These matters are essential. And Mr. Secretary of State says there will be no increase in expenditure. So how are you gonna do it? It will give body, autonomy to this technical unit—that is what is inherent in Article 4. the reference — but if it does so, it must also give it financial competence, because otherwise it will not exist in practice. We are talking about volunteering within the Public Administration, which seems to me to be of some inconsequence. So how much will this technical unit cost? I think this question is relevant. But for me, the essential question is the following: how will this fit with the rest of the state? Are we creating a police enforcement of the Budget Framework Act? That's what it looks like. The Left Block has a totally different opinion, either on the Budget Framework Act, or on the way we should have with regard to public finances and, therefore, we present a bill for debate in this House. It breaks with the idea of the Budget Treaty and the restrictions, which say that when there is a crisis, the people who suffer from this crisis are people. The government does not move in the interests installed, the government has no countercyclical policy, the government, what it does, is to sharpen the crisis on the citizens. That is what is in the Budgetary Framework Act, that path is reinforced by these government choices and that is what we want to end with. A government that stands up, which defends people in a crisis situation must have countercyclical policies. That is exactly our proposal with the bill we present. Mr. Secretary of State said that programme budgeting was very similar to zero base budgeting. He said this after recognizing the obvious, because by law the government should have done at least one year of zero base budget over these four years and he did not, he did not comply with the law on this matter, even though he said that he was very concerned and even the former Minister of Finance recognized that it would be a good measure to be implemented. He didn't. Programme budgeting does not guarantee something that zero-based budgeting guarantees: there is an initial responsibility in the history of the State, in the perennial of actions among people, because program budgeting can start from a simple assumption, that is, that any program is ephemeral, and that we do not accept. in the National Health Service, in education, etc. , we do not accept this idea of ephemerality and of thinking at every moment. And that is what the zero base budget does not do, which is a difference, for us, fundamental. That is why we insist that this matter should be taken forward and guaranteed in the implementation of the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u88	Mr Joaquim Ponte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is by far the concern of the PSD for the proper use of money and for the transparency of public accounts in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. In fact, even in the course of the Parliament which began in 2008, already seven years ago, the PSD presented a legislative package aimed at ensuring the transparency of public accounts in that Autonomous Region. Good use of public resources requires a high degree of transparency of public accounts and increasingly effective and responsible control mechanisms. The transparency of public accounts is also an indicator of the quality of modern democracy. There is a need for broad knowledge of public finances in all areas where resources are being used from the business public sector in this regional case, which has also experienced a growing and marked increase in the number of regional public entities since 1997. But information also needs to be given about extensive investments in public-private partnerships. It is therefore essential to ensure that there is no doubt about the regional public accounts, and that is why, in the above-mentioned package, there was a pre-proposal for a law amending the Budget Framework Act of the Autonomous Region of Azores. It was intended, and it is intended, to ensure that the regional government, in the annual budget submitted to the Legislative Assembly, included attached maps providing individualized and consolidated information from the entire regional business public sector, including information on indebtedness or assumption of similar responsibilities outside the short, medium or long-term balance sheets, not approved in their investment plans and also information on responsibilities over and over taken by public-private partnerships. The initiative was approved at the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, but with the end of the Azores legislature, it fell here in the Assembly of the Republic. It was resumed in 2013 and then subscribed by all parties with seats in the Regional Legislative Assembly. It is this initiative of the PSD/Azores that we appreciate here today and that the PSD Parliamentary Group will vote in favour. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u90	Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Budget Framework Act is the master of our public finance regime, with express constitutional consecration. It has a computer status which gives it precedence over all ordinary laws of financial law, laying down the rules for the preparation, presentation, discussion and approval of the State budget, as well as the rules applicable to the finances of autonomous regions, local authorities and business entities reclassified in accordance with the European System of Public Accounts. This is a structural issue which requires intense parliamentary work, recommends the creation of broad consensus and lacks regulatory stability. It is therefore strange that the Government intends to discuss a new Budget Framework Act one week from the end of the parliamentary plenary on legislative matters. The Budget Framework Act had a profound change in 2011 and was amended three times in the current Parliament, with a view to transposing rules of the budget treaty as well as European standards on economic and budgetary coordination in the euro area. The PS has always had a constructive position in defending the national interest and in adapting European rules to the demands of a deep recession economy as Portugal has lived through this legislation. It is up to the PS the flexibility resulting from the establishment of budgetary principles and rules in the Framework Law and not in the Constitution as they stand for — and it seems they still defend — some fundamentalists who, being unable to control the growth of public debt, which is above 130 % of GDP, continue to speak of ideological flags as foolish as it would be to put in the Constitution, in addition to the limit of debt, the limit of deficit. And why not the unemployment limit? Why not the limit of inflation? Why not the maximum temperature in summer...? That is why we have the legitimacy to say that, while the debate on the framework law is important, it is absurd to do so right now. Parliament and the country do not have to pay the price for the technical incapacity and political incompetence of the government. The Government has announced this law since 2012 and has been repeating the promise in all quarterly revisions of the Memorandum of Troika and in each State Budget. Now, it announces to us the creation of a true parallel state, to implement a law that says it will only be in full force in 2019. What structure is this? What size will it have? What human resources, what costs, what skills will it involve? I did not say that, Mr. Secretary of State, when directly questioned. The regulation of this law will be for the next government, with deadlines that are, in some cases, 180 days, in others, one year, and that reach three years. What's the point of this on the side of elections? Why is this legislative will of a record government in the face of the rule of law, by the way it successively made unconstitutional budgets, by the marginal way it dealt with privatizations of strategic assets of the national economy and by the way it repeatedly hid behind institutional biombos as the Governor of the Banco de Portugal? This proposal has positive aspects, such as the new regime of the Great Options Law of the Plan articulated with the European Semester, the recognition of a true multiannual financial programming that the Government has ignored throughout the mandate, or the increased financial accountability of the sectoral ministries. But it is serious that it is not guaranteed that the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the General Account of the State must be presented before the Budget for the following year, it is serious that an attack on the financial autonomy of higher education is serious that instability in the financial regime of the autonomous regions and local authorities is accentuated, when both the Autonomous Region of the Azores and municipalities have contributed so positively to the health of public accounts. But the absurd total is when it is intended to pass at a hurry a law whose articles 20. a 76. it will only apply in 2019. This is a law for the beginning of a legislature, it is not a law for a government in time of eve and on the edge of elections. Withdrawal of this proposal would be the best contribution they could make to stability and the creation of the basis for a broad parliamentary agreement in this area in the next Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u92	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: in recent years the PS government, through the PECs, and the current PSD/CDS government, through the troika programme and the pretext of fiscal consolidation, impoverished Portuguese and deepened the national economy. They presented State budgets that liquidated social and labour rights, confiscated income, attacked the social functions of the State and public services, promoted unemployment and precariousness, aggravated the tax burden on workers and the people. Each of these State budgets was accompanied by a promise: the austerity measures imposed on Portuguese were temporary. But at the same time as they made this promise, PS, PSD and CDS committed themselves with the European Union to carry out the revision of the Budget Framework Act by introducing in this Law of enhanced value all conditionalisms of the budget treaty, which they achieved in 2013. The transposition of the rules and procedures of the budget treaty can mean only one thing: the option to perpetuate the policy of exploitation and impoverishment, to subject the country to the interests of the great capital and to limit the possibility of the Portuguese people deciding, in a sovereign way, their collective future. There are no intelligent and flexible readings of the budget treaty. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u94	The rules of the budgetary treaty are rigid: either they are complied with or they are not complied with. And when I introduced them into the Budget Framework Act, PS, PSD and CDS they wanted to make them compulsory, perpetuating the austerity measures of the PECs and the troika program. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today brings to the debate a new Budget Framework Act which, by keeping all the demands of the budget treaty, goes further in the refinement of the rules and procedures that guarantee the indefinite continuation of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment. The central idea of this new fiscal framework law is very simple: debt is sacred; interest must be paid in full and without delay; the amount must be reduced to less than half, in the next 20 years, or that it costs the country's economic and social disaster. This is the goal that PSD and CDS want it to be achieved, whatever it takes. Public administration workers are dismissed, wages, pensions and social benefits are cut off, they are cut off in health, education and social security, public services are closed, taxes on labour income and consumption are increased, strategic enterprises are sold for the national economy. It cuts in everything, except, of course, in the privileges and blessings of the great capital. Public debt is the pretext used by the three parties of the troika and right-wing policy to liquidate workers' and the people's rights and to reconfigure the state, putting it even more at the service of the great economic interests. This path of social and civilizational regression does not serve Portuguese and is not an inevitability. It is an option of the three parties of the troika and right-wing policy, which place the interests of the great capital, national and transnational, above the interests of Portugal and Portuguese. But there is an alternative policy that the CFP proposes and that every day is built up by the struggle of the Portuguese, in defence of employment, of rights at work, the improvement of wages and pensions, the social functions of the State and the rights to health, education and social security. In all these struggles, there is an alternative that is built up in the rupture with the right-wing policy and in defense of a sovereign project of economic growth, social justice, progress and development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u95	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past few years, the current government has carried out important budgetary reforms, reforms aimed at giving transparency to all the financial management of the State and, on the other hand, has made everything that is state in the State accounts, there is no waste under the carpet, which, unfortunately, the Socialist Party has accustomed us to in the last years of its governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u97	What about the benefits of the New Bank? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u98	Therefore, the transparency rules of the DGO (Directorate-General of the Budget) have been implemented. Therefore, the Council of Public Finance has powers and means to develop its work. For this reason, UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) has been strengthened in human means, at the initiative of the PSD leader still as leader of the opposition, and never, ever, the majority of parliament, with an absolute majority in this House, has obstructed, wherever it may be, the work of UTAO. We understood and understood that the political struggle must take place in a frank and open manner on the options, not on the values that are officially recorded in the numbers of the State of the Portuguese Republic. This is a gain of transparency and credibility for the State, whose merit is unequivocally vested in this government and the Ministry of Finance. The extension of the perimeter, for example, the absence of parallel accounts is another of the merits. But it's necessary to go further. We therefore welcome this proposal, which resulted from a lot of weighting of the working group that was created and which brings us some relevant news here. Is this the perfect proposal? I am sure it is not. I am sure that the Government and this majority are available to discuss openly with the honourable Member. Members who are genuinely interested in finding solutions, so that a more consensual solution can emerge from the dialogue. That is why, Mr Cabrita, if you would like to mark a meeting for this afternoon, so that even today, after voting in general on this diploma, you begin to do the specialty work, I am sure that this majority — and the PSD will say so from now on — will be available to work today and on Tuesday. We do not need to wait for Wednesday to discuss the Commission's working methodology so that we can start working only the following week. We can do it already this afternoon, if you wish. Our availability is permanent, Mr, to find good solutions for the country. Some have already been pointed out here, even by the honourable Member. There is a change in deadlines — and yet there is also a change in time for the presentation of the State budget. With regard to the General State Account, which the Government intends to present one month earlier, we hope that the Court of Auditors will also be able to deliver its opinion at least one month earlier so that it will arrive here in due course before the entry of the State budget. We are also available, of course, to study all the other principles that are demonstrated here: the greater responsibility of sectoral ministers, the budgeting for the results, which must always be public management. [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] How many times we discussed—we discussed so much! — on the budget and then we assessed much less whether or not the results were achieved. This paradigm must be changed. Budget transparency must be strengthened. The State entity, like all companies in the country and all bodies, should have documents to consolidate everything and thus the Portuguese should know what they must count on permanently. In view of this reality, what we witnessed was purely and simply on the part of some opposition parties to an ideological opposition. It is natural, but for that reason, with those parties that have ideological opposition, dialogue is difficult. The Socialist Party has raised the issue of timing. But if the problem is timing, what we should question is the alternative. Should this work, after being done, remain on the shelf and the whole process be delayed at least one year, waiting for elections, waiting for the government to take possession, waiting for the State budget to come forward and study the matter and for us to have this debate again within one year? Or, on the contrary, should we move forward now with what is consensual? I am sure that the future government, of course with the democratic legitimacy that will result from the will of the voters, can pronounce itself and change what you want to change. And we hope that this future government — and we hope that it will naturally be led by this bench — will maintain the same spirit of openness to the consensus and dialogue that we are demonstrating. We therefore welcome the Government's initiative, we are available to do this work and hope that the principle of responsibility can also prevail in the Socialist Party for consensus to be achieved. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u99	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u100	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : We understand clearly from the speech we have heard today by Mr Eduardo Cabrite, that the word of order of the Socialist Party is to stop, to retreat, to withdraw and to pretend that we are not doing anything. Mr President, the Government and this majority are in office, are working, and the word of order is to continue working until your term of office is over. What does that mean? That, of course, when there are changes and when there are reforms with the dimension and with the impact of what we are discussing today, the word of order is to take the work to the end, and take it to the end well done. What we consider strange — Mr Eduardo Cabrito referred to - the fact that the timing of this proposal is strange - is that we do not have a clear reading on how and where we spend public resources, the resources that are all of them. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, a proposal that allows to improve and make it more obvious the relationship between what is spent and how it is obviously spent is a proposal that is not strange, is a proposal that is welcome and that must be discussed. There are some things we already know. In fact, the Portuguese are more critical today, they are more demanding, they want more reliable information, because, being scarce resources, it is obvious that we have to be effective and efficient in making use of resources that are not from the State as an outside entity to any one of us. The resources that are applied in budgets, year after year, are those that are available to the public service so that the Public Administration can perform its service. Therefore, the effectiveness and logic of use based on what is available must always be absolutely guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u102	If the Portuguese are more demanding today, we must respond, also in legislative terms, with proposals that make it possible to overcome this level of demand, which is a fundamental principle of our democracy. The introduction of new principles and new rules that help understand how we spend our resources is, of course, a principle that we should welcome. Therefore, when we simplify the timetable for the whole budget process, when we reduce fragmentation, but more clearly responsible for the expenditure and use of the resources of each ministry, when we have indicators that allow us to make a more reliable reading of how we spend our money and when we have a relationship and an evaluation which, in some way, also approach the best practices of the private sector, particularly in the analysis of financial statements and management results, we can only say that here we have a reform that helps to make reading more sound. The resources we have are scarce, but the principle of rigour and expenditure must always be in force, regardless of whether we are in a situation of greater or lesser difficulty. Mr. Secretary of State, you can count on the availability of the CDS bench to do all the work of discussing this proposal in the specialty so that the principles which are underlying it, and which are fundamental to us, can come into force. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u103	Mr Eduardo Cabrita has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In brief, I would like to stress that today we are discussing this matter not because of the responsibility of the Socialist Party but because of a government that has promised the structural and profound reform of the Framework Law by the end of 2013 and has not done so; that it has promised it for 2014 and has not done so; and that it is presenting it now, one week from the end of parliamentary time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] for the personal and technical consideration that Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget and for the always exemplary way in which he is related to Parliament, we must not forget that the Government of which he is a member, as a rule, has not acted as a good person, taking into account the way in which he has made successive unconstitutional budgets, as at this time at the end of his term of office, has disparted the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Portugal unilaterally and without listening to the greater party of the opposition and, this week, his Ministry has concluded a contract-promised sale of a national strategic asset, TAP, ignoring the framework law of privatization, which obliged them to define by law the safeguarding of national interest in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In constitutional matters, in terms of privatization and appointment, this is the pattern of the government and that is why, for the sake of stability and trust, this work should be taken advantage of and discussed widely. It was not said here how much it costs the parallel State and the mission unit was invented by the government, it does not come from the working group. How much does this parallel state cost, with three management offices, and why are these state fats? As for the Budget Framework Act, we are here to debate this matter. Put the report in public discussion for all, withdraw this proposal and we will be here, at the beginning of the next legislature, to discuss this subject in time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u105	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say, at the end of this debate, that this last intervention by the Socialist Party clearly proves who is working for the country and who is in electoral campaign. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u107	It is probably not time for Mr Eduardo Cabrito to be able to make such interventions at his own time, particularly in political declarations, and he uses the Budget Framework Act, which has nothing to do with what has just been said, in order to make his radical speech against the government. This is the position of Mr Eduardo Cabrita and this is the parliamentary management of the Socialist Party. Fortunately, many of the PS members in the COFAP ( Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration) do not have this radical behavior and dialogue has been possible. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u108	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this subject is thus concluded. Before we start the voting period, I am going to put the fifth item on the agenda, which will only be the subject of a vote: motion for a resolution No 104 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the Accession of the European Community to the International Convention for Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol of 13 December 1960, consolidated by the Protocol of 27 June 1997. This motion for a resolution, which has already been announced and not given time for discussion, is in a position to be voted on. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to wait a little while until the voting period is over. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so, will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that it is considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 197 meetings, to which three are added, bringing together 200 Members present, so we have quorum to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u110	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u111	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u112	Madam President, it is to call for a brief interruption of the work so that we can finish the analysis of the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u113	Of course, Mr. Deputies. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to begin the voting. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 335 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Transposing Directive No 2013 / 11 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2013 on the alternative resolution of consumer disputes, establishes the legal framework for non-judicial settlement mechanisms for consumer disputes. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Mrs. Members, the diploma is lower than 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 337 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of sentences in criminal matters which impose prison sentences or other measures deprived of liberty for the purposes of the implementation of those judgments in the European Union, as well as the legal regime for the transmission and enforcement of judgments and decisions relating to parole for the purpose of monitoring surveillance and alternative sanctions, transposing Framework Decisions Nos 2008 / 909/JHA, of the Council, and 2008 / 947 / JAI, of both 27 November 2008. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, this diploma also falls to 1. the Commission. We shall now vote, also in general, on Bill No 336 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this diploma is down to 6. the Commission. Let us now vote on the request made by BE, asking the Social Security and Labour Committee to be discharged, without voting, for a period of 15 days, of draft resolutions 1483 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the exercise of the criminologist profession ( PSD ), 1542 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — On the creation of the criminologist profession ( CDS-PP ) and 1549 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recognition and regulation of the criminologist profession ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, these draft resolutions come down to the Committee on Social Security and Labour for a period of 15 days. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1546 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ferryboat transport between the continent and Madeira ( BE ) ( text replaced at the author's request in the explanatory statement ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u114	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u115	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u116	Madam President, it is only to inform that on this subject the PSD Members elected by Madeira will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u117	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote was followed by an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge of the Social Security and Labour Commission, without a 20-day vote of Bill No 896 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The Order of Social Assistants ( PS ) shall be established. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to the Social Security and Labour Committee for a period of 20 days. We shall vote on draft resolution No 1463 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recognition of patients with fibromyalgia ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With regard to draft resolution No 1514 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by effectively complying with the recognition of fibromyalgia and the rights of fibromyalgia patients ( PCP ), the PSD requested the separate vote of points 1, 3 and 8 and then the vote of the rest together. Let us then vote on points 1, 3 and 8. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and the Greens were adopted and the PS abstained.]] We shall now vote together on points 2, 4 to 7 and 9 and 10 of draft resolution No 1514 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] For draft resolution No 1547 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for the recognition and protection of persons with fibromyalgia ( BE ), the PSD calls for a separate vote on points 1, 6 and 7 and after the other points together. Let us then vote on points 1, 6 and 7. [[Subject to vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and votes against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens were rejected.]] We shall now vote together on points 2 to 5 of draft resolution No 1547 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 971 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combats precariousness by preventing the use of measures wrongly regarded as job promoters, such as IEC, IEC + and traineeships, in order to meet the permanent needs of public services and enterprises ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, the general vote of Bill No 972 / XII is followed ( 4 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens the protection of workers ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u118	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u119	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u120	Madam President, it is only to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the two diplomas we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u121	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we will now vote in general on Bill No. 1010 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — prohibits and regulates the use of employment-inclusion contracts and employment-inclusion contracts +( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to draft resolution No 1548 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends measures to combat precariousness and reformulates the rules of employment stages ( BE ), the PS requested that the point-by-point vote be taken. Let us then vote on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 895 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Thirty-five hours for increased job creation and replacement of rights in civil service ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u122	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u123	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u124	Madam President, it is to inform us that we will also present a declaration of vote on the diploma we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u125	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 860 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum working time limit for all workers by making the eighth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and repealing Law No 68 / 2013 of 29 August establishing the duration of the normal working time for workers in public service ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote, in general, on Bill No 1009 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — by the replacement of 35 hours of weekly work in the Public Administration ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u126	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u127	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u128	Madam President, also on the last two votes, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u129	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We continue to vote on draft resolution No 1550 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Ensuring a new control paradigm for the animal population ( The Greens) for which the PSD requested a separate vote from points 7 and 8, I believe that together, and after the other points.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u130	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u131	You have the floor, Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u132	Mr President, by the PS, points 7 and 8 cannot be voted together, they must also be voted separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u133	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. If everyone agrees, we will vote on point 7 of draft resolution No 1550/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Ensuring a new control paradigm for the animal population ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 8 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are voting together on points 1 to 6 and 9 and 10 of the same motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u134	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u135	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u136	Madam President, it is to inform the House that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote on paragraph 7 of the diploma we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u137	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on an application submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, without voting for a period of 30 days from Bill No 1008 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Legal arrangements for the modernisation of official animal collection centres and municipal veterinary services ( CFP ). In the meantime, the PCP reminded us, and very well, that there is also a request on the Bureau, submitted by the Block of the Left, requesting the release of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote, for a period of 30 days, of Bill No. 1012 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Prohibition of compulsive slaughter of animals at collection centres ( BE ). That's how it's done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u138	Madam President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u139	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u140	Madam President, we are voting down to committees different from two projects whose theme is the same, when what makes sense is that they both go down to the same committee and agree that they should be down to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, but I leave that to the Bureau's criterion. In any case, I believe that they should bring the two diplomas down to the same committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u141	Mr. Deputy, you look good. In fact, it was because there was a request for the resignation of the diplomas to different committees that the Bureau did not propose the joint vote. Mrs. Members, if there is agreement, I believe that we can now vote on the requests and then define the committee to which the respective bills will be lowered. [[Pause.]] Since no one opposes us, then we shall vote together on the two demands. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, following this vote, the draft laws will be reduced to the committee we will then define. We continue to vote on draft resolution No 1529 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes funding to specialized artistic music and dance schools in conditions to ensure their stability and quality education ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, I use to tell the plenary and the public that the draft laws on which we had voted earlier are both, by consensus, down to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1541 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard specialized artistic education through the stability of its financing model and transfers to educational institutions ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1545 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Financing of artistic schools by the State budget, guaranteeing the right to artistic education for all students ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall now vote, in general, on Bill No 343 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amends the Third Code of Criminal Procedure and approves the Statute of the Victim, transposing Directive 2012 / 29 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 laying down rules on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Framework Decision 2001 / 220 / JAI of 15 March 2001. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 329 / XII ( 4 ) is also followed. ( a) — Approves the Budget Framework Act. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 191 / XII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 79 / 98 of 24 November approving the framework for the autonomous region of the Azores ( ALRAA ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill also goes down to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 1011 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — To create a budget which no longer imposes austerity on the country ( the ninth amendment to Law No 91 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 — Budget Framework Act ) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the vote script, the general vote on Bill No 332 / XII ( 4 ) is followed. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2006 of 29 August adopting the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations, but, as has not yet been discussed, it will not be voted on today. We shall therefore proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 104 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol on the accession of the European Community to the International Convention for Cooperation in the Safety of Air Navigation Eurocontrol of 13 December 1960, consolidated by the Protocol of 27 June 1997. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] The vote on draft resolution No 1152 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the subsidy values to be allocated in the links between the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the continent ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are now voting on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics and Public Works on draft resolution No 1405 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the development of a tourism recovery programme for Madeira ( PS ), ( the author withdrew his initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1148 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Consecrate 17 May as National Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1544 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the institution of May 17 as the national day against discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and intersex persons (BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] [[PCP and BE protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in full vote and therefore I would prefer that they remain calm.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u142	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u143	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u144	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u145	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u146	Madam President, I would also like to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u147	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1500 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the positive discrimination of the sub-region of the Sousa and Thamega Valley ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u148	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u149	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u150	Madam President, it is to announce that I will, on my behalf, present a statement of vote on the diploma we have just voted on. Mrs. Maria José Castelo Branco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u151	Madam President, it is to announce that, with regard to the diploma we have just voted on, I will also present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u152	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 1536 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize a plan promoting territorial cohesion, considering economic and social indicators in the allocation of investment support within Portugal 2020 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and abstains from the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u153	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u154	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u155	Madam President, it is to inform you that, at the end of the vote, I will make an oral statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u156	Of course, Mrs. Gloria Araújo. Mr. Jorge Machado, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u157	Madam President, it is also to inform that, at the end of the vote, as it is regiment, I will make an oral vote on the draft resolution that we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u158	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u159	Madam President, it is also to inform that, at the end of the vote, I will make an oral statement on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u160	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr. Michael Seufert, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u161	Madam President, it is to inform you that on behalf of the CDS I will also make an oral vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u162	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr. Mário Magalhães, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u163	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u164	Of course, Mr. Mário Magalhães. At the end of the vote, oral explanations of vote will then be made, as they should normally be. Mrs. Members of the Commission on Education, Science and Culture on draft resolutions Nos 1453/ XII ( 4 ) follow the vote on the text of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture ( 4 ) on draft resolutions Nos 1453/12 ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish the National Day of Gastronomy ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 1520 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Institution of the Portuguese Gastronomy Day ( PS ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[At the moment, public applause was recorded in the galleries.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u165	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u166	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u167	Mr President, it is on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Coelho to declare beforehand that we are in office, which are reflected in the exercise of the following vote and, as such, we would like to declare it for the proper purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u168	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, is registered and I thank the rigour. We proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of Bill No. 888 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November establishing the administrative reorganization of Lisbon ( PSD and PS ), until, in order to clarify the general public, this matter obliges the voting, in the specialty of certain articles of the bill in plenary, of certain articles of the draft law, in accordance with the supplementary script of votes, in accordance with Article 168 ( 4 ). the conjugate with Article 164 ( n ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. There is a prior agreement for the different articles and amendments to be voted on together in the speciality. We shall therefore vote jointly on Article 1. the draft law, the proposal submitted by the PSD and PS, amending Article 9 (1) ( h ), ( m ) and ( o ). ( Freguesias in the Lisbon Council ) and Article 12. ( Jurisdictions of the Fregue Councils ) of Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November, Article 17 (1) and (2). the ( Financial Resources) of Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November as set out in Article 2. o ( Amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November) of the bill, and the body of article 2. the, with the amendments introduced, and Articles 3. ( Transitional provision) and 4. the ( Entry into force) of the draft law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS and BE, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[The proposed amendment, submitted by the PSDP and the PS, is the following: Article 2 Amendment to Law No. 56/2012 of 8 November Articles 9(, 12 and 17 of Law No. 56/2012 of 8 November are amended: Article 2 Amendment to Act No. 56/2012 of 8 November, which is replaced by the following wording: "Article 9(1): (1) — The Council of Lisbon is replaced by the following frequencies: (a).................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2 — The councils of the Council of Lisbon are still responsible for the supervision, processing of counter-ordinations and the application of fines and ancillary penalties relating to the powers referred to in the preceding Article in accordance with their sectoral legal arrangements.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u169	Mrs. Members, we turn to the overall final vote of Bill No 888 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November establishing the administrative reorganization of Lisbon ( PSD and PS ) with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and BE, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u170	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u171	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u172	Madam President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u173	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I wonder if we can vote jointly in general in the field of expertise and in the overall final vote, draft law No 770 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the parish of Buarcos, in the city of Figueira da Foz, in Buarcos and São Julião ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the field of another vote in general, in speciality and in the global end. Having agreed and identifying the matter, I think we can proceed in the same way and carry out the three votes together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, then we shall vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory and Local Power, concerning the projects of lein.o 776 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesias de Currelos, Papízios and Sobral, in the municipality of Carregal do Sal, to Carregal do Sal ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 791 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia of the Union of Freguesias de Currelos, Papízios and Sobral, in the municipality of Carregal do Sal, to the parish of Carregal do Sal ( PS ) ( the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, still in the area of the amendment of denominations of parish, if there are no objections, we shall, in general, vote on draft law No 820 / XII ( 4 ) in the speciality and in the overall final vote. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of the Freguesias de Torres Vedras ( São Pedro, Santiago, Santa Maria do Castelo and São Miguel ) and Matacães, in the municipality of Torres Vedras, to Santa Maria, São Pedro and Matacães ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, following the same methodology, we proceed to the general vote, in general, in the specialty and global final, of Bill No. 969 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Union of Freguesias de Campo ( São Martinho ), São Salvador do Campo and Negroes ( São Mamede ), in the municipality of Santo Tirso, for the parish of Vila Nova do Campo ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and BE and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] [[At the moment, public applause was recorded in the galleries.]] He asked them not to speak in the galleries. Mrs. Members, we follow the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication on the proposal for a law No 289 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes rules and transparency obligations to be subject to the conduct of State institutional advertising campaigns and the rules applicable to the distribution of the State's institutional advertising into national territory through local and regional media bodies. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, on draft law No 889 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 38 / 2012 of 28 August, as amended by Law No 33 / 2014 of 16 June, which approves the Anti-Doping Law in Sport, by adopting in the domestic legal order the rules laid down in the World Anti-Doping Code ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken, with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, against the PS and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u174	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u175	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u176	Madam President, it is only to announce that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u177	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u178	Madam President, I would like to inform the Bureau that the Left Block will make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u179	It is also registered, Mr. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 426 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a special regime for presumed death in the event of shipwreck of fishing vessels ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We then, in general, voted Bill No. 778 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of persons in accidents ( PS ) ( replaced text within the Commission ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No. 781 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Facilitates the alleged death declaration in the event of shipwreck or disappearance of a vessel ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] If there is no opposition, we now proceed to the joint vote, in general, on the speciality ( recruitment by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission ) and the overall final text of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the projects of lein. 426 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a special regime for alleged death in the event of shipwreck of fishing vessels ( CFP ), 778 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Promotes the early payment of compensation and social benefits in the event of the disappearance of persons in accidents ( PS ) ( replaced text within the Commission ) and 781 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Facilitates the alleged death declaration in the event of shipwreck or disappearance of a vessel ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u180	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u181	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u182	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u183	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No 327 / XII ( 4. (a) — Defines the rules for the financing of humanitarian firefighter associations on the continent as firefighter bodies. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes against the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] We now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration, on draft law No 866 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works, establishing a new working time modality, the half-day ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and against the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, after the vote on the Rules of Procedure, we moved on to the oral explanations of vote on draft resolutions Nos 1500 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the positive discrimination of the sub-region of the Sousa and Thamega Valley ( PS ) and 1536 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government dynamize a plan promoting territorial cohesion, considering economic and social indicators in the allocation of investment support within Portugal 2020 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). For a statement of vote, Mrs. Gloria Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u184	Madam President, my explanation of vote refers to draft resolution No 1500 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) submitted by the Socialist Party, which calls on the Government to make a positive discrimination of the sub-region of the Sousa and Thame Valley. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Having come to this point, it is regrettable to see the PSD again — I think one of the last — come here to do the same exercise as ever. We are close to an election campaign and I fear that the PSD will do what it has always done in the last four decades in the Sousa Valley: lie, deceive, promise what it never intended to do. It is a cyclical exercise, from four to four years, to allow the electoral calendar this orthodoxy. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, still in the morning remembering my childhood and youth in the Sousa Valley, the sharpest image I remember is to be on a bus stop, in the rain, waiting for the travelling library of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, which brought the books to that population that never had the right to a library.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u185	That's proximity policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u186	at the time, it was the Social Democratic Party that ruled—and the term was well chosen, because they always behaved like rulers—the fates of those people and of that region. Of course, it was a Democratic Social Party based on a broken rural bourgeoisie that today has no more contentment than to continue to call tenants, because not even the first lines in the church are entitled. [[PSD protests.]] The Social Democratic Party well knows that the Sousa and Thamega Valley has always been, and continues to be, the poorest region in northern Portugal, even poorer than the Douro region, a region where our people also suffered the silicon imposed by this social-democracy that does not even respect the most basic principles of dignity. however, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, your behaviour is no longer consistent with reality. I announce to you, because it seems to me that they are the only ones who have not yet understood, that the PSD in the Sousa Valley, as we knew it, is over, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, these pifio documents here bring in a painful exercise both for the Socialist Party, and for the people who still represent me to say the following: verify that in the municipality of Paços de Ferreira, 40 years later, the Socialist Party won the Chamber and it is the Socialist Party that leads the destinations of the municipality. [[PSD protests.]] And you know what?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u187	Madam Member, I would ask you to conclude the statement of vote. The fact that time is not indicated has ended up disorienting the Bureau. He asked the services to activate time counting. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was agreed that every statement of vote would have two minutes, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u188	Madam President, I am not aware of this agreement. I will be brief, Madam President, but since there was no interest on the part of the parliamentary groups in discussing this issue in plenary, I would like to thank you, at least, for giving you enough dignity to hear in condition what other people here are trying to say on the subject. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u189	Madam Member, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u190	In conclusion, very briefly. In Paredes, I myself have an opinion about who really won the municipality and I am not the only one.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u191	Madam Member, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u192	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u193	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u194	With the condescending of those who just found out what time I had available, I asked for another 1 minute. [[PSD and CDS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u195	Mrs. Deputy, as a rule, the time given is two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u196	When the conditions are created, I shall finish, Madam President. Even in Penafiel, it is no novelty for anyone who is not the PSD leading the City Council and therefore Mr. Members, in conclusion, I am going to announce to you the following: the lead of this proposal is the lead that the PSD carries in the Sousa Valley and will cause other people to emerge for one day, in their lives, to be able to have enough dignity to represent the people of that region. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u197	You now have the floor, for a statement of vote, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sub-region of the Sousa and Basso Thamega Valley is indeed one of the poorest regions in Europe and requires deep and specific intervention to overcome the serious problems that exist, such as unemployment, poverty, serious exploitation of those who work, emigration. These are some of the serious problems that exist in the region and result from 38 years of right-wing policy carried out by PS, PSD and CDS-PP. We voted in favour of these legislative initiatives, but we have serious doubts that they have some practical effect, because the Community funds are not directed towards the development of the country, but rather to promote the concentration of wealth and increasingly benefit the large economic groups. More: we want to say that, several times, the CFP Parliamentary Group has put forward concrete proposals, within the State budget, for this sub-region to see the investment necessary to overcome the difficulties, proposals that were subsequently rejected by successive governments and majority of the PS, PSD and CDS. Finally, I wanted to say that the CFP, in this legislature, presented a social emergency plan for the port district that proposes concrete measures of investment, social support, professional requalification and diversification of industry, which is one of the most serious problems in the region and which needed to be improved. These proposals of the social emergency plan, which effectively contained a message and a set of concrete measures to support this region, were unfortunately rejected by the PSD and the CDS-PP. In the final note, in order to meet the time we have, we mean that the CFP will continue to fight for the region, it will continue to fight so that the region and the district of Porto, in particular this sub-region of the Sousa Valley and the Thamega Valley, is not condemned to poverty, emigration, unemployment. But we will never forget who are really responsible for this situation, and those responsible are sitting here, are the PS, the PSD and the CDS, for their successive political options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u199	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also spoke for an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Vale do Sousa and Thamega region is a region of people who work but have suffered in the skin the policies of austerity of this government. And feeling this, I believe it is incomprehensible to those populations of the 11 municipalities of this sub-region that it has been passed back in the distribution of Community funds by 2020. It is incomprehensible because it is known that this sub-region has higher poverty rates than the whole North region, where wages are lower, despite the industrial fabric of the region, where there is a need to invest in the training of citizens and citizens, but nevertheless these emergencies demonstrated unequivocally in official statistics did not deserve the due attention of the government and the majority PSD / CDS. That is why this intervention, at this time, is the statement of vote by those who are outraged at this situation and who know that this region deserves more and more attention from the rulers, because it has given much to the country. We know that this government is reaching the end of the mandate, that this majority is reaching the limit of its domination in this House of the Republic, but we also know that after the elections we will be able to choose differently and, by choosing differently, to redirect, with greater justice and more attention, the Community funds for this sub-region. The Vale do Sousa and Thamega is not doomed to forgetting that this majority, and even previous governments, voted on it. Therefore, in the elections, we hope that a new page will be opened, because the Community funds, even in time, can be redirected, as that sub-region deserves, to protect people who are not guilty of austerity policies that this government has ultimately been the promotional agent and to ensure that the future is more sound than the present one. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u201	The oral vote by Mr Michael Seufert follows. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to the two draft resolutions we voted on, firstly, we would like to emphasize the fundamental role that territorial cohesion has and should have in the governance of one country and mention, in relation to the region of the Thamega and Sousa, that we are facing a clear example of a disadvantaged region, with an index of purchasing power far below the national average, with municipalities that are less than 50 % of the national average in that same index and yet, despite this, is a region that is sometimes forgotten. It is not exactly a coastal region, it is not exactly deep interior, it remains in an intermediate zone and this forgetfulness is something that we are concerned about in this governance, Madam President. I just remember that, even at the end of April, 14 doctors were able to be placed in the ACES (Asgroups of Health Centers) of Lower Themega, something why CDS Members often fought, having removed more than 26 500 users from the situation of being without a family doctor. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u203	Therefore, it is a region from which we do not forget and every week new protocols arrive that social security signs with local IPSSs to promote exactly social solidarity, which is always very criticized by the Left Block and the Socialist Party, and not only in this region. But, Madam President, there is one thing that, for us, is absolutely extraordinary that is to see the role of the Socialist Party, of my true fault, in this situation. When we look at the 2007 to 2013 Community Support Framework Implementation Report, designed, aligned and structured by government officials or, at the level of the CCDR ( Committee on Regional Coordination and Development ), placed by the Socialist Party, what we see is that this region, which deserves everything from the Structural Funds, has a per capita value far below the national average in implementing these funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u204	VV. They've been in the government for four years, and what did they do? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u205	Therefore, what the majority here asked is not an exception to the region of the Thamega and Sousa, but that it is treated as any other region and, looking at development indicators, have what you have right. I recall that it was this government that ended with the effect of spiral over into European funds, that it was an effect that allowed to place in regions that did not deserve European funds that were needed in other regions, exactly by the Socialist Party to treat certain regions as exceptional, regions that did not need them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u206	Therefore, our contribution in this draft resolution is that this ceases to be so and that regions such as the Thames and Sousa Valley, and others are also treated with the dignity they deserve, without exception, because if they are treated in the way they deserve, without asking for any regime of exception, they will be better treated than they were from 2007 onwards, with the funds for this region that the Socialist Party did not want to execute. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u207	I now give the floor, also for an oral vote, to Mr Mário Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have just voted and adopted a recommendation to the Government to dynamize a plan that promotes territorial cohesion, considering economic and social indicators in the allocation of investment support within Portugal 2020. in these draft resolutions has a special focus on the sub-region of the Thamega and Sousa, a sub-region that has a particularity that I would like to highlight here. But the adoption of these draft resolutions makes it possible to focus on two aspects: first, an opportunity and, second, a question of justice. Opportunity for the moment it is presented. It is at the beginning of a Community framework and, as has already been said, it is necessary to make a balance sheet of what has happened so far in the previous Community framework, particularly in this region, and it is also an opportunity for Portugal to have more territorial cohesion. This is the youngest region in Portugal, it is not a low-density territory, on the contrary, it is a high-density region and, therefore, it is out of many supports that have had in the past and that will have for the future these regions, in a serious and fair way, it is true, but it does not have it. Let us see this: this region has the particularity of having only 80 % of GDP per capita of the average of the regions of the low-density territories. These economic indicators are very important and today a proposal has just been adopted for these conditions to be taken into account. This region is a region of working people, of people who are exporters, of people who do not live from the subsidy, on the contrary, it is a region that exports solidarity to the rest of the country. [[PSD applause.]] The number of per capita workers in this region is higher than the national average and we have the lowest rate of elderly in the country. How is it possible, with all these indicators, that the region also has the other indicators, in terms of GDP per capita? This needs to be taken into account. We also have another issue, which has to do with youth and education. in the past, there were problems at this level that currently do not exist and we have very well-trained young people who have difficulty having opportunities in this region. What we want for this region is only justice, i.e. that the Community funds which come to Portugal to correct asymmetries, to make territorial cohesion, come to this region, because in the past, reports say, only half of the Community funds have reached this region and that is the responsibility of those who managed the last Community framework. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP Members Carla Cruz and Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u209	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u210	I will finish, Madam President. I want to say that today's vote is a victory of the region, this is a work of everyone in the region, it is also due to the municipal chambers and the NUTS itself (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes), which has an obligation to have this opportunity to present the projects necessary to reverse this situation. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u211	There is an appeal to the Bureau of Mr João Oliveira. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u212	Madam President, it is only to record that the Assembly of the Republic has returned to good practice to allow oral voting statements in draft resolutions after the CFP has been prevented from doing, with regard to the Formosa River, the PSD and the CDS, who wanted to silence the dispute. We realize that, for the majority, when it is done, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic are already interpreted on the contrary. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u213	Let's continue with our work. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there is a debate that has been suspended this morning, because we are entering the voting period, which we are going to resume. We have already with us Mr. Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, to present Bill No. 332 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2006 of 29 August adopting the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations. You have the floor, with my compliments, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the reform of the spatial planning process has been completed, it is also necessary to ensure efficient regulation and uniformization of counter-ordination regimes. This proposal for a law thus creates a single discipline for counter-ordinations in the areas of the environment, but also for spatial planning, establishing the regime applicable to counter-ordinations for breach of territorial plans, as well as for counter-ordinations for infringements of special programme management regulations. The legal regime of environmental counter-ordinations also presented recognised constraints and solutions leading to a chronic failure of the counter-ordination processes in the courts and, in this sense, extended the latitude of the sanctioning decision, allowing greater weighting of the gravity of the illegals in the case of conviction, and this in harmony, in fact, with the amendment adopted in the Penal Code for crimes of harm against nature. Also in the slight infringements, the replacement of legality and the adoption of due behaviors was privileged, through the mere warning figure. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u215	For an intervention, Mr Luís Fazenda, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block would have preferred, when drafting and approving the Basics of the Environment Act and the Basics of the Land and Urbanity Law, that these laws would have a clear, defined and structured sanctioning regime from both the point of view of what is crime and what will be the object of counter-ordination. So the government did not understand it, adopted a different philosophy and now presents us here a change to the framework law on environmental counter-ordinations, in which, at the same time, it intertwines a set of counter-ordinations with those resulting from the violation of territorial management instruments, and, above all, a part of these territorial management instruments are still in a transition period to the single municipal plan. in these circumstances, and not at all having a comprehensive sanctions regime in the law of the basis of the environment nor in the law of ground and land and urban planning, I believe it would be advised to maintain some caution from the point of view of the so-called "light counter-ordinations", precisely because it is the time when different counter-ordinations are joined together in the same legal order and philosophy has been mitigated by mild counter-ordinations. They are the warnings — innovative figure — suspension of sanctions, attenuation of penalty, etc. That is to say, at this stage, the message may prejudge, but if they reject what was, it does nothing wrong, nothing happens' seems wrong. Now, this is a wrong message and, above all at this stage, it is also temporarily wrong. So it seems to us that it should not be adopted. We recognize that there are sanctions that are aggravated for the most serious counter-ordinations, but the message regarding mild counter-ordination is wrong, until the limitation period is relatively short and we know how the country's administrative machine works. So, probably, what will happen is that the prescription deadlines are exhausted and they were not even the object of counter-ordination, even with regard to the violation of territorial management instruments, violations of PDM and special programmes. We'll see! We have a very critical position on this. I believe that there should be openness on the part of the Government and the majority in order to be discussed in committee, in a specialized capacity, trying to find a sanctions regime in the field of environmental counter-ordinations, which is more balanced and does not allow what does not enter through the door through several windows. I believe that this precaution was an obligation of the public authorities and, at the moment, the Government and the Ministry of the Environment are not guaranteeing it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u217	For an intervention, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u218	Mr President, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Mr. Secretary of State, unfortunately, 3 minutes is very little time to discuss with depth this bill that we have today in our hands, although it is settled in only eight articles. It is true that, within the scope of many of its provisions per se, the effect of these provisions and their conjugation with other diplomas recently approved by the Government will be summarized, which, in our view, would be based on a much more in-depth analysis. And I am referring to diplomas such as Decree-Law No 165 / 2014, which came to whitewash the regularization of establishments and farms in non-compliance with environmental standards and territorial management instruments, or Portaria No 68 / 2015 of March 9, which followed it. However, the cross-reading of this bill with those diplomas makes it possible to conclude, without doubt, by the existence of a very clear strategy of deresponsibility of the State that this Government has continued, particularly in environmental matters — and always for the benefit of the offender — and by first taking care to suspend the counter-ordination procedures directly related to the lack of a title of exploitation or the violation of the standards relating to compliance with the rules of the environment or of the planning of the territory that were under way, on more than 3000 holdings and activities — in more than 3000 holdings and activities! And now it is the government, one month after the end of the legislature, to review a structured document of public environmental policies with a single intention: that of further whitening the irregularities committed by a large set of production units throughout the country, and greatly extravagant the admissibility in the face of national reality. Let us see how it does: argumentation is a very great fragility, alluding to practical difficulties detected in the application of the existing regime and the need to improve solutions that allow efficiency gains in administration, without taking care of the grounds, since it is not even accompanied by any study or supporting document. On the basis of the principle that the legal protection of the environment must be carried out in terms of mere social order, which raises enormous doubts concerning the interests in the presence, yet the Government, at the end of its term of office, proposes the creation of the warning figure for the case of slight counter-ordinations, referring to the small number of slight counter-ordinations, a reality on which we cannot be pronounced since the elements are not available to us. Aspect in the least of the wonder is to see this figure predict that the process does not even get to be instructed, being understood as a mechanism of pedagogical character. And the curious thing is that this invention lays the foundation for reducing costs for administration and for the clear benefits for procedural activity. As a result, the proposal provides for the suspension of sanctions and for ancillary sanctions and the possibility of attenuating the fine in particular, in line with other initiatives launched by the government's authorship, such as those mentioned above. Mr Secretary of State, if you were living on the edge of a farm, you would certainly not be making this decision and would not be making this mistake. The size that deserves particular concern is the discretionary margin given to administrative entities, as well as a higher decision-making latitude, leading to differentiated interventions based on the same type of action. And this does not mention less licit phenomena. Finally, a reference to the opportunity which the Government has lost to correct the manifest unconstitutionality of Article 75. that of the framework law — reformatio in pejus —, according to which it is not applicable to the procedures of counter-ordination established and decided under this law the prohibition of reformatio in pejus, and this information must consist of all final decisions which admit appeal or appeal, and whose revocation will not fail to be submitted by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u219	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u220	I will finish, Madam President. In short, this is a bill that gives us the greatest reservations not only about its true purposes but above all about its consequences for the environment, and does not seem to benefit from the proposed amendments or the well-being of citizens who are struck by non-compliance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u221	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposed law amending the counter-ordering regime on environmental counter-ordination has a history, which even makes it strange, in a way, this intervention that we have just heard from the Socialist Party. It is that the Socialist Party, in fact, initially creates the regime, has the support of several benches—and, if I am not mistaken, it has even been approved unanimously—and then the Socialist Party itself, a few months later, ends with all the big fines and creates a more or less fine regime, especially for large companies that prevent against the environment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u223	It's nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u224	... and at that time he no longer relied on the support of the CFP. This proposal, now, is neither one thing nor another. It has some fair concerns about the value of fines, which, moreover, the CFP has always indicated as requiring adjustments, namely to lower some of the lower limits for small counter-ordinations or for minor counter-ordinations, even taking into account the Portuguese business fabric, the agricultural fabric, taking into account the vast range of enterprises and diversity, because one thing is a big business that commits a serious counter-ordination against the environment, which deteriorates environmental values, and another thing is, by a less correct practice, a small farmer who can end up harming the environment, so the measure of sanctions should also take into account this diversity of our productive fabric and also the relationship that these various activities have with nature and environmental goods. Therefore, on the lower limits and maximum limits, on the part of the CFP, there is no opposition, until much of the limits now proposed by the Government is increased. But there are other dimensions of the bill that deserve at least a more thorough reflection in the specialty, in particular some of the ones that have already been mentioned. If we do not deny, at least at the outset, the possibility of a warning figure exists, we must describe in a very precise way and consider the concrete situations in which there is warning and how the decision is made so that the warning can replace a fine. It is simply not possible to leave in the discretion of the administrative authority the application of a warning or a fine. Just as a concept emerges, which is at least vague, which is that of the need for the fine. Therefore, the administrative authority has in its hand the ability to decide whether or not to apply a fine, according to this splendid criterion, the need for fine, which is not explained in the law. And, therefore, it is in the hands of the administrative authority to decide whether or not there is a need for the fine, whether or not it has been breached by the law, because what the need for the fine is not explained. This concept might also deserve further deepening or even disappearing. There are other issues, in particular the potential capacity conflict between camera presidents and CCDR ( Co-ordination and Regional Development Committees ) in some of the decisions, i.e. there may be some overlap — that is, one of the criticisms we can address. I shall finish, Madam President, because my time is running out, only with this note: the CFP, in this debate, is returning a warning. It is that we can have the best counter-ordination regimes, we can have good environmental legislation (and I do not say that we have a perfect nor the best of the counter-ordination regimes, but we could have) but, without supervision, without means and without a policy of presence in the territory, we will not be able to act in the fundamental part: on the one hand, the monitoring of environmental deterioration, of activities that damage the environment and on the other hand, the fundamental issue of prevention, which is not to allow counter-ordination or environmental crime to take place. And in this matter, we still have a lot to go on. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u225	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u226	Mr President, Mrs and Mr State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are debating a proposal today that aims to amend the framework law on environmental counter-ordination. thus, I would like to point out, firstly, that one of the most valuables of this protection is precisely the possibility of preventing future damage and, through the deterrence of operators, of violating standards of conduct of environmental justice. Indeed, a counter-ordination does not entail an effective damage either because the typical conduct is beyond this factivity or because administrative illegality is sufficient in many situations with the mere violation of risk prevention duties. The counter-ordinary regime is therefore the need to have an alternative penal order other than criminal law, which, if it did not exist, would leave the legislator and the executioner unable to lay hands on a differentiated range of sanctions more adapted to the nature of the severity of the illegals to be suppressed or prevented. That's what we're dealing with. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is the initiative in debate that aims to consider in the same diploma environmental counter-ordinations and counter-ordinations due to violation of municipal, inter-municipal and preventive measures, favouring a single discipline in these matters. And do they propose how? The change in the liability regime of legal persons through the figure of the reversal; the creation of new institutes within the context of mild counter-ordination, such as warning; the repeal of the very thorough process; the forecast of the possibility of suspension of the fine, in situations where it is relevant to ensure the replacement of the previous situation, the protection of health, the safety of persons and goods or the environment; the flexibility of the penalty measure based on crime; the extension of the payment period in benefits from 24 to 48 months; the modification of the distribution of the fines; and, finally, the creation of a special scheme for the application of the special attenuation institute, amending the framework of fines. In this regard, it is said that fines are increased in 14 cases, remain in 4 cases and are reduced in 6 cases. The main objective of this proposal is therefore to make the processes more efficient but also to increase their success in court. It should be noted that, of the 465 cases settled in court since the beginning of 2014, 49 % were acquitted, filed, declared null or prescribed; only 18 % confirmed the fines applied; by 22 %, the fines were reduced; and by 13 %, they were converted into a warning. With these numbers, we are not appealing to due behaviors, with these numbers, there is no effectiveness in the sanction system established, and that is what this diploma also intends to change. With regard to the whitening of which Mrs Idália Serrão has told us, we are not, Mrs Deputy, to disappoint or to whitening anything. Between 2008 and 2013, only 5, 5 % of counter-ordinations were mild, 37 % were very serious, 32 % were serious and 26 % were not classified. With this proposal, Mrs Deputies, the ceilings all rise, with particular expression in the very serious counter-ordinations, which are those that concern you, I think. The minimum limits, as a general rule, remain or fall. This descent is more expressive for natural people and when it descends in public people it is only in situations of negligence. Mrs Deputy, we are at the end of the legislature, but I must tell you that your 2009 proposal, which emerged immediately after unanimity in 2006, was also discussed on 22 May and published in August, so I don't even understand the criticism. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u227	Mr Pedro Morais Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This bill, now under discussion, integrates one of the particularly important moments of the walk that this Government and this majority have carried out in the country with the important political reform of the planning of the territory and the environment. A greeting to Mr. Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature for this necessary initiative and subsequent to the entire ongoing reform of the planning of the territory. from the reform of urban lease to the leased buildings system, from the new urban rehabilitation regime to the Law of General Basics of the Soil Public Policy, the Planning of the Territory and Urbanism, the exceptional regime of urban rehabilitation, the centrality of the PDMs and the need for cooperation between municipalities are some examples in the area of spatial planning, without specifically referring to environmental measures and now to integration into the same regime and efficiency that arises here from counter-ordinations due to violations of the territorial plans and special programme management regulations within the broad framework of the environmental counter-ordinations presented here. Mrs. Members, the origin of most of the environmental problems Portugal is currently facing at the level of spatial planning and planning of activities, particularly economic, which have a direct relationship with the environment. The measures taken are now an integral part of this broader reform, which translates a new appreciation of the dynamics of the territory and a different model of economic and environmental sustainable development. With this new framework law, it aims to perfect itself a system, a regime that, although changed by the Socialist Party in 2009, proved inadequate. The aim of this amendment is to respond to the insufficient separation between minimum and maximum levels of the fine frame, allowing for greater adequacy and weighting of the severity of the illegalities and the behaviours of the agents. That's why, sirs. Members, there is a strengthening of the sanctions in cases where there is intent, failure and seriousness of the infringement and maintenance of the minimum levels. It also pays attention to the different economic situation of the agent, to the benefit withdrawn from the damage caused, allowing for a better and fairer sanctioning decision. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are also committed to preventing, increasing the ceilings and promoting the guarantee of the deterrent effect. It also bets on accountability and does not benefit the offenders, there is no unfair and harmful competition between those who invest and wage economically and non-pollui and those who pollute, build or act to harm health, safety, the environment and the heritage of present generations and future generations. in this new picture, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the authorities necessarily play a crucial role in combating the environmental degradation of the national territory since they have competence in areas of this problem and are, in many cases, the place where environmental and territorial damage occurs and prolongs. They must therefore also be the destination of fines aimed at repairing the damage. Mrs. Members, the legal protection of the environment and the planning of the territory must be a priority, and this government has met this priority as a broad reform which aims to reverse the logic of the past. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u230	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, I think that in his initial speech he explained very little about the diploma that is being discussed here today and, therefore, now, perhaps it is time to put some specific questions so that we can have some further understanding of the reasons why the Government makes certain proposals. We are talking about the regime of environmental counter-ordination, including spatial planning. And I wanted to say that, as a general principle, the way in which the government re-adjusts the frames or fines values does not shock me at all. Then there is a set of mechanisms that are found that can distort the regime which is at first being proposed. Mr Secretary of State, for example, we look at Article 20. the -A and we find the heading « Suspension of penalty», but it corresponds to the suspension of application of the fine, which, for example, can be made by mere publicity of condemnation. Isn't this relatively little, Mr. Secretary of State? Isn't this opening a door with any ease? For example, we also look at Article 23. o -A and we find anything like « special attenuation of the fine», which can be weighted by a thing called the necessity of the fine. This is something that does not generate great understanding. Can the Secretary of State explain what this means? Or, perhaps for a better understanding, can Mr. Secretary of State give concrete examples of specific cases that might fit in this description? Also in Article 47, for example. the -A, in relation to the warning that everyone here has already spoken, can the Secretary of State — being a new feature, let us say, that the Government implements this diploma — give us a concrete case so that we can perceive in practice the consequences of this warning figure? Can you explain, in practice, a specific case of environmental violation where this situation could be applied? Mr Secretary of State, even because of what Mrs. Angela Guerra has focused on the experience in courts in this area, I also wanted to say that the prescription regime seems relatively short to us and that it also seems to us an open door for many things to be forgotten and much ends up having some effect of prevaricative practices regarding the environment. And, speaking of that, Mr Secretary of State, our concern may be a little more because the government's history is not really very beneficial for a great credibility. I would like to remind you that this government has also regulated illegal establishments with environmental inconformity. So, Mr Secretary of State, there are, in fact, some issues that seem to be not very logical in some of the concerns we are discussing and which are due, but then in practice, there are always large beneficiaries of many prevarications, especially at the environmental level. And this to say what? That the environmental counter-ordination regime is an important issue, but that the fines do not solve everything and that there is a practice that precedes this matter that is precisely related to preventive matters and control matters where the government owes much to Portuguese society. The government means you've cut off a lot in public service...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u231	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u232	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, the government means that it has cut a lot in public service and that this matter has a great impact on the environment, environmental monitoring and environmental surveillance. And this, Mr Secretary of State, is a matter of great concern to us. We are very good at monitoring and monitoring and so that we do not get to the fines this part is essential, but what I was asking was that Mr. Secretary of State would actually apply this diploma to concrete and practical examples so that we could perceive the regimes such as warning, special attenuation of the fine, due to the need for fine, and out there, as I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u233	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I thank the questions raised and would like to note that, as far as we are concerned, there is, in fact, the understanding that we are taking concrete and important steps to manage a reality that exists in our country and a problem that is already behind us. Mrs Idália Serrão considers that time is short, but she puts two diplomas in discussion and not just one, but I will try to answer. Returning to what was the approval of the extraordinary system of regularization of economic activities, even though the honourable Member referred to his interventions as an attempt to whitewash, I cannot ever again refer to the answer which, on the contrary, there were, in fact, countries that chose amnesty to solve the problems they had, but we do not. At the heart of the reform of the planning of the territory we have begun, we face the problems, we identify the solutions and take them forward. So what we have done was to propose an integrated process of solving these irregularities because it is well known that the sectoral processes of regularization have not worked and, on the contrary, it does not bleach or amnesty anyone, it is important to respond to a specific problem that exists in our country. Also within the framework of the Environmental Controls Framework Act, we considered that this was a unique opportunity not only to respond to the challenges posed by the implementation of the legislation in force, but also to Mrs.Angela Guerra with the figures she presented, as well as to integrate the issues related to the planning of the territory into this Framework Act, which we considered essential also to give an answer. in this sense, I believe that it is important, eventually, to do a more in-depth study of the proposal. For example, in the case of warning, in which cases is it applied or not? It is perfectly discriminated against, i.e., the warning figure exists only for situations of lesser gravity and in which it is necessary for the defendant to prove that it is fully complying with the legal requirements and that it has promoted the repositioning of the situation prior to the infringement. I must also say that with regard to the so-called confusion between the role of the camera president and the role of the chairman of the Committee on Regional Coordination and Development. the proposal for a diploma establishes a specific regime of competence for the instruction of procedures for the control of the order of the territory where the breach of the inter-municipal or municipal plan is the responsibility of the president of the chamber and the regulation of the management regulations of the special programmes to the bodies which are competent in the area of safeguard, and the President of the CCD shall intervene only when national or regional interests are concerned. I would also point out that this proposal does not seem to us to create new problems in particular; it does, yes, respond to any constraints that exist. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I must say that, with regard to the suspension of the application of the fine, what we did in this proposal for a diploma was precisely to follow what has been the practice and decisions of the courts; with regard to the special attenuation of the fine, the situations in which it applies are determined in paragraph 2 on the warning I have already mentioned. Mrs. Members, I thank you for your contributions, but only to conclude that they have been the objectives of this proposal — and we believe that they have been achieved — to strengthen the efficiency of the procedures for counter-ordination covered and the effectiveness of the enforcement of sanctions; to strengthen the adequacy and prevention capacity through the adequacy of the sanctions to the effective seriousness of the illegals committed; and, lastly, and not least, to respond to the sanctions regime provided for in Article 131 (5). the RGIT ( General Tax Offences Scheme ). [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u235	Mrs. Members, having concluded this item on the agenda, we turn to petition No 432 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — Presented by Renata Rodrigues Ribas and others, requesting the maintenance of deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, and the extension of this option to other public hospitals. For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Marcelino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who are attending the sitting and welcome them for the patience they have had to wait until this hour to attend the petition debate. This is an important petition, which addresses the maintenance of deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, and the extension of this option to other public hospitals. It is good to begin by mentioning the starting point in our country: in 1970, 62 % of births were made at home and in 2015 this rate is residual ; in 1970, 55 in every 1000 children did not complete the first year of life and in 2012 there were two to three children in 1000 ; in 1970, 3, 8,000 fetuses died and in 2012 they died 323 ; in 1970, 73, 4 women per 100,000 died at birth and in 2013 six women per 100,000 died. This shows well the evolution in our country, a positive evolution that is very due to the National Health Service. These figures show that, in fact, hospital delivery is positive and should be maintained in this way, but it is also true that we must seek the humanization of health services. childbirth is not a disease, it results from a natural physiological issue and, as such, it should be humanized, it should not be medicalized, even if it has to happen within hospitals, and women should be given options to be in the most comfortable environment and the one they choose. It is in this area that the World Health Organization argues that a set of circumstances can be opened: for example, women are not forced to be laid all the time, they can eat during labor, a set of situations where delivery in water is also a possibility that is admitted by the WHO. It is in this context that this petition makes sense. Maintaining delivery in the water in Setúbal hospital is an important aspect for the Setúbal region and that hospital, because it is innovative and positive. I wanted to finish, saying that the numbers are revealing: between November 2011 and June 2014 600 interviews were conducted to couples who wanted to deliver in the water, having been 454 women covered, which means that there was care, that there was screening and that only those who were not at risk could do so. I conclude by saying that this is an important matter and that we, the Socialist Party, would like to see the delivery in the water at the Hospital de São Bernardo in Setúbal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u237	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u238	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 4000 citizens and citizens directed a petition to the Assembly of the Republic to defend the maintenance of deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo in Setúbal. We welcome the dynamisation of this initiative, we greet all its subscribers and allow me to also health to all the women who are present in the galleries to attend the debate. The moment of birth gave birth to a child is undoubtedly unique for mother and father and is something that is experienced with enormous intensity. It is natural that families prepare in detail the birth of their child. We understand the demands that bring to the Assembly of the Republic and, as regards the concrete object of the petition we are discussing, we understand that, with scientific evidence, the National Health Service should ensure free of charge to all families who take this option the possibility of giving birth in water. The absence of this response by the National Health Service opens up space for private entities to make a business and profit with the birth of children. of the information available there was no complication with the deliveries in the water performed at Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal. Having this response in the National Health Service, all conditions for pregnant women should be ensured and the safety and health of mothers and children should be guaranteed. Obviously, given the specificities of this type of delivery, it is necessary to assess in due course the pregnant women who can do so and who, at no risk, may be able to choose to give birth in water. The allocation of health professionals specialists in this area, such as nursing nurses specialists in maternal health and obstetrics, is a fundamental condition to ensure the quality of health care. These nurses had specialized training in this area, so they have knowledge that allows them to follow the delivery process. The evolution of our country with regard to maternal health and child health is indisputable and, in fact, our indicators, following our Revolution, of the conquest of the right to health, of the National Health Service, have allowed an extraordinary evolution. Finally, we reiterate that, as the conditions of mother and child safety are guaranteed and that the health care provided is of quality, we believe that women should have the option to be able to decide what type of delivery they want. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u239	Mr Paulo Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u240	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On my behalf and on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the members of this petition in Parliament. It is always to mention and praise, above all, when such a large number of citizens unite around a civic attitude like this one. The petition in question seeks, as described in its title, from then on, the maintenance of deliveries in the water at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, and the extension of this option to other public hospitals. Reading the petition, petitioners argue that delivery in the water is a non-pharmacological alternative, with less pain and more natural, to so-called instrumentalized births. They also understand that, in this way, the child's father also participates more actively at this very important moment and that, in addition to that, for the baby itself is less traumatic, since he passes from a liquid medium, where he grew up for nine months, to another until the arms of his parents. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know, of course, that the birth of a child is a unique moment in life, it is a natural physiological process, but not without risks, even in cases where pregnancy runs and usually occurs, because, at any time, during labor, or until the time of expulsion, there can be any complication that, not always and often cannot be expected and such complication can obviously bring serious consequences to both mother and baby. So it is imperative for us that the safety of mother and baby must always be guarded. Portugal, as has already been said, is one of the countries with a lower rate of birth mortality. We are a world-wide reference country for maternal and child health. Whether births occur within water or out of water, in a marquisa, or even in an anatomic chair, the important thing is to ensure always two essential points: one, the authorization previously granted by the mother in a consent process that must always be informed; another, to ensure that the hospital, where the delivery occurs, has a multidisciplinary team at the very disposal of the mother and her child that always ensures urgent or emerging effective action at the time when such unpredictable complications may arise. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the CDS-PP, the safety of mother and baby are always, and in any circumstances, first. It is essential, regardless of the case, to ensure that, at such a unique moment, as beautiful, important and happy as the birth of a child, there is no transformation into any discomfort or tragedy, because the quality and safety of the services provided to mother and baby during delivery are for us indispensable and unquestionable conditions that must be maintained. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u241	For an intervention, Mrs Elsa Cordeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u242	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I begin by congratulating the citizens and citizens who have subscribed to this petition and who have been held heroically in the galleries this morning that is already going on. This is an act of citizenship and of great courage. The petition in appreciation aims to maintain deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, but also aims to extend this option of delivery to other public hospitals. As rapporteur of this petition it is now necessary to clarify the following: firstly, my agreement and that of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which I represent, on the right of choice and choice of future mothers and parents as and where delivery will take place; secondly, we agree that the rights of pregnant women must be respected at the time of birth, preserving the right to life and privacy. But in our view, on the one hand, these rights cannot come into conflict with who is responsible for the clinical procedure in question, and on the other hand, we are also not absolutely certain of the existence of scientific evidence on the effectiveness, efficiency and safety of deliveries in water. This is what the Directorate-General of Health and the College of the Speciality of Gynecology and Obstetrics of the Order of Physicians tells us. But once again, this opinion is not consensual, since it is not accompanied by the position of the College of Maternal and Obstetric Health Nursing College, which argues that there are studies available on the unequivocal benefits of the use of immersion in water during delivery, both for the parturient and for the newborn and that, for the practice of delivery or delivery in the water, the presence of a doctor is not necessary. It is in this sense that I finish my speech by clearly saying that what matters most, when you see a topic as complex and multifaceted as it is to carry out deliveries in water, is to ensure maternal and child safety, and experts are to find at every moment the best solutions in this regard. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u243	Also for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u244	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and petitioners for the democratic exercise and citizenship which always represents the presentation of a petition. This petition goes up to the plenary because it has about 5000 signatures and therefore obliges this discussion. The petition is, as has already been said, about the maintenance of deliveries in water at the Hospital de São Bernardo and its extension to other hospitals. Water delivery is part of the promotion of normal delivery, advised by the World Health Organization, however I believe that the main issue we have to discuss here is exactly the principle of the democratic law and choice of women or/ and couples regarding the way they want to see their children born, and this option is enshrined in the Health Bases Act and in our larger legal system, which is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Despite the technical controversy, if we wish, that exists on this problem, well expressed in the opinions that are attached to the petition, I believe that this petition calls us for a reflection on the subject. What we know is that the experience in Setúbal has been positive, yet extending it to other hospitals lacks an in-depth discussion and, therefore, the petition has the very important meaning of convening professionals, those responsible, organizations for the debate. I believe that this is the responsibility of Parliament and the Government, through the Ministry of Health, as well as of professional organizations and specialized colleges. We therefore believe that this issue should not be left to this petition, that its discussion should continue in both Parliament and the competent bodies so that we can also contribute to the promotion of normal birth. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u245	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u246	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, to greet the petitioners who have submitted this petition to the Assembly of the Republic. What these petitioners are asking the Assembly of the Republic is that it discusses the issue of deliveries in the water that occurred at the Hospital de São Bernardo. The petitioners want this reality to continue and still ask the Assembly of the Republic to reflect on the extension of this practice to other public hospitals. As we all know, petitions are not voted upon in the Assembly of the Republic, but this petition has the great merit of discussing here a matter which, quite probably, would not be discussed in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. And this is important, because the various opinions of the various parliamentary groups have already been heard here, and I would also like to express the views of the Greens. On the one hand, we may need to start looking at births in a different way, in the middle of the 21st century. I believe that this path has been made, but in fact it is important to speak without any prejudice and perfectly humanized way about the need to work to create well-being in childbirth. The birth does not have to be that absolutely horrible thing, of moments of suffering and pain for women, and all we do to contribute to well-being in childbirth will, of course, also generate well-being for the child who comes there, it is not true, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, and even for mom and dad, what's less? Oh, my God! The World Health Organization has already given important advice on how to create this well-being in childbirth and does not leave out the matter of delivery in the water, because not, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! And here, I think, we all generate some credibility or a lot of credibility to the World Health Organization. Many of you. Members took refuge here in the security argument, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the experience of the Hospital de São Bernardo leaves us no room for fear of security matters. And, of course, medical teams have the final word in this matter. If we had experiences in this regard, I could even imagine that the security argument was invoked here, but it was not the matter of security that led to the suspension of deliveries in the water at the Hospital de São Bernardo. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must take safe steps, without prejudice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u247	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u248	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, I think we have to take safe steps, without prejudice, in order to generate well-being in childbirth. And the matter of delivery in water, as a reality at the Hospital de São Bernardo and other Portuguese public hospitals, certainly has to return to debate in the Assembly of the Republic, because I also want to tell you something, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: what the public does not do, does private! But we're already in another discussion, aren't we? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-06-26.u249	Mrs. Members, we conclude here the debate on petition No 432 / XII ( 4. ( a). Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will be held on Wednesday, 1 July, beginning at 14 a.m. and 30 minutes, and will have the following agenda: First, legislation No 345 / XII ( 4 ) will generally be assessed together. ( a ) — Approves the system of information system of the Portuguese Republic and the projects of lein.o 935 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 30 / 84 of 5 September, as amended by Laws Nos 4 / 95 of 21 February, 15 / 96 of 30 April, and 75 -A / 97 of 22 July, and by Organic Laws Nos 4 / 2004 of 6 November, and 4 / 2014 of 13 August, with the Declaration of Corrigendum No 44 -A / 2014 of 10 October ( Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic - SIRP ) ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 997 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the regime of supervision of the Assembly of the Republic on the Information System of the Portuguese Republic and sets the limits of the operation of the Services which integrate it ( Sixth amendment to Law No 30 / 84 of 5 September ) ( PCP ), 999 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Framework Law of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, establishing the organisation of the register of interests of its stakeholders ( PS ) and 1006 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — First amendment to the Organic Law No 3 / 2014 of 6 August establishing the State Secret Supervisory Entity ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Secondly, the CL will be assessed on draft resolution No 1553 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2014 ( Committee on European Affairs); Third, petition No 252 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Submitted by Maria Emília Guerreiro Neto de Sousa ( President of the Municipal Chamber of Almada ) and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to abandon the intention of building a mega terminal container in the village of Trafaria; Fourthly, together, petition No 451 / XII ( 4 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — Submitted by Nuno Filipe Bilber ( A4 Committee of Users ) and others, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to take a decision against the introduction of tolls into A4 and recommends that the Government be a free route, and Bill No. 1023 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Determines the exemption of tolls in the ex-SCUT ( BE ), in general, and draft resolution No 1567 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by not introducing tolls on the transmountain motorway ( A4 ) ( The Greens ) ; Fifthly, we will discuss petition No 440 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by Andreia Sofia dos Santos Nunes ( Group of Mothers Fighting Hearts and Great Hearts) and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic for the return of heart operations, with national and vital agreement, to the Portuguese Red Cross Hospital ( HCVP ) ; Sixth place, petition No 437 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Submitted by the Public Services User Movement ( MUSP), protesting against the privatization of the public hospital in Cantanhede and its maintenance in the SNS, and draft resolutions 1271 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the public management of Cantanhede hospital within the SNS and effective recruitment of all professionals who respond to the permanent needs of their functioning ( PCP ), 1560/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( BE ) and 1566 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — By public management and at the service of the populations of the Archbishop John Chrysostom Hospital in Cantanhede ( The Greens); In seventh place, we will appreciate petition No 74 / XI ( 1. ( a ) — Submitted by Hélio Francisco Pires Sales and others, asking the national and regional political authorities, within their competences, to do everything within their power to introduce amendments to the labour agreement which safeguard the rights and interests of Portuguese workers at the Lajes Base; In eighth place, petition No 487 / XII will be appreciated ( 4. (a ) — Submitted by Duarte Alvelos Bénard da Costa et al., asking the Assembly of the Republic for tolerance for the non-use of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement in national examinations. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 14 minutes.]]
