ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Officers of the authority who open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein. 26 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the indirect reprivatization process of TAP, SGPS, SA, repealing Decree-Law No 181 -A / 2014 of 24 December, and Decree-Law No 210 / 2012 of 21 September ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 27 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensure access to tax benefits by environmental associations and zoophiles by amending Law No 16 / 2001 of 22 June ( NAP ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; 28 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Ensures equality of rights in access to adoption and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex, making the second amendment to Law No 7 / 2001 of 11 May 2001 and the first amendment to Law No 9 / 2010 of 31 May ( PAN ) ; 29 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures equality of rights in access to assisted medical procreation techniques by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June ( PAN) ; 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act, setting limits on the payment of the users by the settlement of the contract in the loyalty period (12 ). the amendment to Law No 5 / 2004 of 10 February ( PCP ) ; 31 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the Civil Registry Code, taking into account adoption, assisted medicinal product procreation and civil sponsorship by couples of the same sex (BE) ; 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( BE) and 33 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restoration of deleted national holidays ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Parliamentary assessments 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Request of the PCP requesting the assessment by the Assembly of the Republic of Decree-Law No 239 / 2015 of 14 October 2015 — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 28 / 2008 of 22 February 2008 establishing the arrangements for the creation, structuring and functioning of the health centres of the National Health Service ; 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Request of the PCP requesting the assessment by the Assembly of the Republic of Decree-Law No 169 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 212/2009 of 3 September 2009, allowing municipalities to establish partnerships for the realization of curricular enrichment activities ( AEC) ; 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Request of the PCP requesting the assessment by the Assembly of the Republic of Decree-Law No 165 / 2015 of 17 August 2015 — Procedures for the regulation of the Baldios Law ; 4 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — The PCP requirement requesting the assessment by the Assembly of the Republic of Decree-Law No 223/2015 of 8 October 2015 — creates an incentive to assign, by increasing the list of users, medical workers specialists in general and family medicine to perform functions in model A ( USF ) family health units and personalized health care units ( UCSP ) in geographical areas qualified as deprived; 5 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — PCP requirement requesting assessment by the Assembly of the Republic of Decree-Law No 182 / 2015 of 31 August 2015 — Defines the procedures for the regularization of the debts of the extinct House of Douro with the nature of public association; 6 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ) — PCP application for assessment by the Assembly of the Republic of Decree-Law No 158/2015 of 10 August 2015 — The second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 117/2009 of 18 May as amended by Decree-Law No 14/2012 of 20 January 2012 laying down rules on recruitment for surveillance zone teams in schools. Finally, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Basic guidelines of Portuguese foreign policy ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; 6 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce the public passenger transport service in the East Line, throughout its route ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; 7 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national railway plan ( BE) and 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Planned revision of the suspension of religious holidays and corresponding civil holidays ( PSD and CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u3	Mrs. Members, at the Conference of Leaders it was agreed that today, before the agenda, which, as you know, consists of political declarations and discussion of petitions, we would proceed to the reading and voting of a vote of condemnation and regret for the terrible events of Friday, 13th in Paris. I would like to inform you that Mr. Ambassador of France, Jean-François Blarel, is present in the forum of the Diplomatic Corps. I was asking the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen would greet Mr. Ambassador. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Members, I am reading vote No 3 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a) — Condemnation and regret for the terrorist attacks in Paris, signed by myself, by all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and by the Member of the NAP : « Last Friday, humanity witnessed, with horror, to the barbershop. An organized band of terrorists of the self-denominated « Islamic State » has lovingly spread fear and death through the streets of Paris. Innocent people, from all origins and cultures, who had fun in a concert, who were walking by the stadium or dining in restaurants in the French capital, lost their lives. They lost their lives at least 129 people, having been wounded more than 300. There is no cause or justification for acts of this nature. What has happened is simply innominable. We are talking about the biggest terrorist attack on European soil since the 2004 Madrid attacks. We are faced with a clear attempt to bring to Europe the culture of war and violence that these groups have long practiced in North Africa and the Middle East. In the face of absolute horror, absolute condemnation is imposed. In the face of absolute evil, the common good must prevail. In response, respect for fundamental freedoms and rights and the reaffirmation of human rights which terrorism intends to challenge is required. Because losing the compass of values is the best way to get lost on the way. It is also necessary for us, the Assembly of the Portuguese Republic, to express our sorrow for the families of the victims and for all solidarity with the French state and people. Solidarity and cooperation, such as those of the Parisians who bravely came that night and welcomed the victims of the attacks, are absolutely crucial in preventing and combating terrorism. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, thus expresses its most vehement condemnation and its deepest sympathy for the terrorist attacks in Paris. Do not keep on seeking. ” They will now use the floor on this vote by Members of all parliamentary groups. First of all, Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last Friday, the world was once again shaken by a series of terrorist attacks in European territory. Ten months after the attack on the Charlie Hebdo newspaper, Paris once again became a stage of a series of vicious and absurd attacks that took the lives of more than a hundred people. But this was not just an attack on Paris, it was an attack on all of us, on our freedom, on our values, on our society and on our democracy. The cowardly violence of terrorism cannot be seen as belonging to ethnic or religious groups, cultural groups or even nations. The horror of terrorism spread all over the world is the manifestation of the absurd, vile and inhumane that reaches us on a global scale and must be fought by all. Combating terrorism, violence for violence, death for death must be dealt with without hindrance and without any kind of commensation, in an effort for unity and cooperation among all those who pursue the values of tolerance, humanism and democracy. The currency of 'freedom, equality and fraternity', which characterizes the integrative, plural and solidarity we know, is also our currency. And it will be under your aegis that we will guide us firmly in this fight to defend the common values of humanity, without fear of threats, without fear of enjoying our freedoms, without fear of living. But the tragic events of Paris again pose a certain fragility with regard to an effective common security and defence policy. The threat of this modern, sophisticated and difficult-to-detection terrorism forces Europe to move from words to acts with regard to the capacity for joint response, as a political bloc of free and democratic nations. Today, France has implemented the collective defence clause of the European Union provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon. For this reason, the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party today will hand over to the Parliamentary Committee on National Defence an extraordinary request for hearing to the Minister of National Defence. We have no doubt that these attacks are the manifestation of an extremism that, regardless of being moved by secular or religious convictions, or fundamentally impose a totalitarian view of society. For that reason, it must be rejected in its entirety. It is therefore necessary to involve and give the floor to all those who can contribute to the continued affirmation of the European project and to the definition of this enlarged homeland which is Europe, as an area of full integration and freedom. As Alexander dumas wrote in his work The three Musketeers, we will be, as at the time, fraternal for one another and unequivocally invincible under the double bosom of equality and courage. We will be here, in this context, today and always, one for all and for one. [[PSD, PS and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u5	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party is associated with this moment of unity of Parliament and the Portuguese nation in which we approve a vote of condemnation and regret for the terrible events of 13 November. We associate ourselves with respect for the pain and solidarity with all those who are offended by this miserable act of terrorism that has struck France, and we do so with a very sympathetic reference to Mr. Ambassador of France, who shares this moment with us. We associate ourselves with the indignation that everyone moves against intolerable acts that do supreme values that all of us identify — freedom, equality and fraternity — and that do not confine themselves to the beautiful currency of the French Republic. We revive our commitment to fight for civilization and humanity, our worship and our love for diversity, the inclusion and the joy that the city of Paris also embodies. The ideology underlying these forms of terror is today the most extreme denial of the value of human life. For ideologists of religious and niilist totalitarianism, terrorism is a mere medium, not an end. However, this means must be fought by all means at our disposal, without further errors, on the basis of international conjugation, particularly with the means of military neutralization. It is up to us to be supportive of this emergency. Similarly, preventive needs in matters of collective security and in each country are not ignored. It is also up to us to consider them without neglecting their effectiveness and without weakening our freedom and the individual rights that form part of our culture. But the moment today is above all — and it must be — that of the expression of our absolute human solidarity. Therefore, I end by recalling the words of a poet of Azorian descent, Jorge de Sena : « (...) so much blood, / so much pain, so much anguish, one day/even if the hatred of a happy world pursues you — / will not be in vain». I hope not! [[PS, PSD, BE, PCP and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u7	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At a time like this, the first word can be nothing other than the condemnation of terror, the fanaticism of those who have brought death to the heart of Europe and who, in terror, want to see the spread of hatred among all of us. It is also necessary, in the first words, in this context, to express our sympathy with the victims, our solidarity with the French people and also with the Portuguese community based in France, because it was among them that these events also took place. But when we are faced with such destruction, when the fundamental value of life is called into question by fanaticism, it is important that we ask ourselves whether we want to take a step forward or whether we want to fall into the trap of hatred, because that is the one that stands before us. On this subject, we should remember a well-known French politician, Dominique de Villepin, and his reflection made in the last few hours. It is not a political area close to the Left Block and therefore I believe that its reflection will have a stronger value. He says: "It's not because a bunch of fanatic killers declare war to us that we have to fall into the trap of declaring war back. These attacks are largely related to a historical process that has grown with interventions in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and so many other places and that have only dropped gasoline to the fire. Let's learn from experience. Things are getting worse than they were 10 years ago, things are worse here, in Libya, Afghanistan and Iraq. Do not keep on seeking. ” I believe that this is the reflection that we should all make. The result of the values that were at stake and those that France brought to the world and which made us, Europeans, so unique, the values of freedom, equality and fraternity, is to learn from those who have suffered these attacks most closely. I quote a journalist, Antoine Leiris, whose wife, 12-year-old companion, mother of her son, died last Friday's attack. I think what you mean is the greatest learning we can have. He said: "You will not have my hatred. You look for him, but responding to hate with anger would give in to the same ignorance that made you who you are. They want me to be afraid, to look at my fellow citizens with a suspicious look, to sacrifice my freedom for security. They've lost! We continue to live the same way». This is the challenge of France to freedom, equality and solidarity. This is the challenge of those who refuse to respond to hate with hatred, who refuse retaliation bombings and of those who know that whenever hatred has prevailed it was the bombs that gave rise to words, and the bombs are that they have created an even more unstable world than that in which we lived. Therefore, saying no to hate, the only answer we can give to those who want to sow terror is: no, you will not win, because we will not let hate prevail — freedom, solidarity, equality and fraternity! Solidarity has been added here as the value which Europe cannot now lack, which looks at France as one of its own, but which also looks at the French as those who say they do not want to be responsible for further bombings. [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u9	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that this moment is — I cannot but be — an emotional moment, because we all saw with horror and emotion the events of Friday night 13, in Paris. About this moment and this vote, I went to visit—it is not my habit, but it happened in this case—the intervention I myself gave, somewhere this same year, about the attacks and the attack on the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris. I must say that if I repeated exactly the intervention I made on that day, with small amendments, replacing the word 'journalists' with 'citizens', replacing '12 dead' with'130 dead', adding that there are Portuguese victims, the intervention would be perfectly appropriate to what we live today. This is perhaps the greatest factor of shock, horror and perhaps also the greatest emotional factor. It is that, a few months later, we are living again in the heart of Europe, again in Paris, an even more serious situation, even more horrifying, with seven attacks at the same time, which we have not been able to prevent, we have not been able to fight and we have not been able to avoid. It is clear that this also calls us for several reflections. The first reflection and the first answer must, of course, always be a response of humanity. I have just heard — and I fully agree with these words — the French President says that the refugees fleeing the war in Syria are fleeing exactly from the same evil, from the same reality as he attacked Paris. And that is the notion of humanity that we have to have. Mr President, this vote, which is your own initiative, which could only be consensual; something else made no sense, and we have done everything to do so, will not rob us of a debate in the future about the response to this situation, about the response to this same violence, whether this consensual debate or not. As I said at the time, and I repeat, we cannot, under any circumstances, lose what I personally like to call « the moral superiority of democracies». Democrats do not act as gangs of fanatics, as gangs of terrorists or as totalitarian groups. Democracy must, in its action, always and in any circumstance, use respect for freedom, respect for democracy, respect for human values. However, it is good to make it clear that, in our view, there is no contradiction between strengthening our security and continuing to defend freedom. There is no contradiction between helping us, supporting us, receiving those who need to be received, particularly refugees, and having scrutiny at the entry into our borders. There is no contradiction between defending freedoms and our way of life and, at the same time, fighting terrorism firmly. I say this with the legitimacy of those who, in a debate we had here a few months ago, said that at the moment - and for the second time I am quoting myself, which is not normal - we are all together, we are all united, we all agree, but we have to discuss what each of us is willing to do in order to, within a few months, we will not be voting again for a vote of regret for events that happen in Paris, in another European city, wherever we are. France made a declaration of war, France lives in a state of emergency. I have no doubt that neither the French authorities, nor anyone in France, to protect their children who want to go to a sports show or who want to go to a concert, chose to live in an emergency state, no one chose to make a declaration of war, did so for absolute need. And it is about this need, Mr President, that we will have to reflect on in the future. I conclude by saying that, although the moment is emotional, it must also be a moment of determination. We heard yesterday the immortal words of Rouget de Lisle being sung in full lungs in Wembley, and it is with those words that I will finish my intervention. Our opponent is indeed tyranny, and as they said these immortal words « against us of tyranny / the standard bleeding is lifted». We congratulate the French authorities on the person of Mr Ambassador, who is here, on expressing our solidarity and our firmness that tyranny will not overcome and that terrorism will not overcome because our determination to do so will be opposed. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u11	For an intervention, Mr João Oliveira, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The first words of the CFP Parliamentary Group are to vehemently condemn the attacks in Paris, to express our dismay and feeling of regret to the victims and their families and also to express our solidarity to the Portuguese people and the Portuguese community in France. We also want to extend this expression of sorrow and solidarity to all peoples who are victims of terrorism in their various expressions in various parts of the world, including in the Middle East and Africa, where humanity has also been confronted with the horror and barbarity of terrorism. The response to terrorism necessarily requires the fight against its deepest causes, whether political, economic or social. The fight against terrorism requires the end of political, financial and military support with which terrorist groups such as those meeting around the so-called Islamic State have counted and have been used to destabilize and assault sovereign and independent states such as Syria or Iraq. The escalation of interference, war and imposition of measures to attack fundamental rights and freedoms has proved to have failed the objective of combating terrorism and have fueled the growth of racist, xenophobic and fascist forces and their terrorist action. Combating terrorism requires the defence and affirmation of the values of freedom, democracy, sovereignty and independence of states. The fight against terrorism has to go through options that put an end to the escalation of war and to the militarization of international relations. It must stop further aggressions against sovereign states, particularly in the Middle East region, and through a policy of decommissioning and peace in international relations, within the framework of respect for the Charter of the United Nations and for international law. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Ambassador of France: virtually everything has been said. in these circumstances, the words cannot cover up the pain in any way, but of course we have a strong word of solidarity for all the French people, who once again was the victim of this horror, of these terrorist attacks, of such tragic events that took place on 13 November. I would also like to add that it was not only human lives that were at stake and that the pain with regard to these lives must be deeply manifested and condemned. But in this case, much more has been achieved than that: we have achieved values, supreme values, such as tolerance, plurality, respect for differences, values that have to reign in the world. For France and for all that France has given to the world it is always important to remember—and it is now being constantly remembered—the values of freedom, equality and fraternity and, more than to remember, practice and implement. That is why, Mr President, I would also like to say, on behalf of the Greens, that if the answer is the escalation of hatred, revenge and aggression this does not stop, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this doesn't stop. We must have the intelligence to know how to stop this horror. So let us look at the causes, and if in the causes we find the logic of international trade in arms, of the sale of weapons, of financing, of food to groups practicing terrorism, this must end Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It's the causes we have to go to end and respond to this horror. The solidarity of the Greens, which is, of course, in the vote that we have signed, as I said, is for the French people as a whole, but also for all the peoples who have been victims of war and terrorist acts, which must once and for all have a final point and to which the human intelligence and societies and democratic communities must be able to put a final point, in particular by not feeding causes. Not feeding causes! [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u15	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Ambassador of France and all those present in the Chamber : on this solemn occasion, we convey our feelings of solidarity with France. All human beings who suffer and lose their lives by violent acts based on ignorance, fear and discrimination leave our feelings and compassion. The very system in which we live and which feeds on fear and division, we will certainly see, in the short term, an intensification of security policies based on war and oppression. But more than war answers, we need to change economic, social and environmental policies. Nothing justifies such violence, terror and brutality. However, we, citizens of the rich and developed countries, are given the opportunity to reflect on how we are consuming and generating wealth, about our participation as a country and as a society in the exploitation of third parties and its implications. The many and distinct neocolonialisms, with the pressure actions they force on the ground, are far from harmless for the well-being of human beings in many weaker countries. As citizens of the so-called developed countries, with our daily, political and electoral choices, we are all accomplices to the winning/loss relations that our countries establish with other countries and human beings in weaker positions. Unfortunately, in some of these countries there are dominant elites with low levels of consciousness that, with other purposes, take into account the emptiness that we have helped to create, promote and perpetuate lines of irrassible thought and of more radicalized and primitive feelings. More than a war response from France, what terrorists want at the end of the day, there is a different attitude from Europe, on the path of non-predating trade relations, the protection of all people, of education and awareness-raising, of example, far away, where everything happens, where others like us start to become landless, where others like us are forced to flee because of the weapons or climate change that we produce. When we look for wealth there, let us not forget to leave something in exchange, but sooner or later everything will be collected or made ricochet — that is happening. We need to stop. The other is also us, and we all want peace. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u17	I note that the Government has reported that it is also associated with the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 3 / XII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Condemning and weighing terrorist attacks in Paris ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House, standing, kept a minute of silence, followed by general applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we now turn to the first item on our agenda today, which is made up of political declarations. To this end, Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last Friday Paris, the light city, my city and the city of many Portuguese, reference of freedom and tolerance, was once again the target of terrorist attacks that turned it into a real stage of war. Unacceptable attacks, inconceivable attacks, attacks of extreme violence that were intended only to kill as many innocents as possible and spread terror. At the time of the attacks, he was in Paris, the moment they happened was in the cinema and I don't forget the concern and panic stamped on the face of people who were having news of what was happening. All of us had relatives, friends, or acquaintances who could be in the places where the attacks took place — very complicated times. Voltaire's homeland is once again linked to a black moment in the history of international terrorism. Since the Second World War, France has not been the target of a major attack on its territory. These attacks, like those of last January, occurred in the heart of the city, occurred in the heart of the country, occurred in the heart of Europe, in places that clearly symbolize the way of being and living of our societies. And they have shown that what we have conquered over several centuries is being the target of an attack that must, on our part, deserve a firm answer and demonstrate that these values are above any fundamentalism or fanaticism. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what we have seen, our first words must be to express our solidarity with all the victims and their families, with France and its people and also with the Portuguese community. France is a country known for its diversity and it is in this country that resides an estimated Franco-Portuguese community of 1 million and 300,000 people, a community that was once again the victim of the attacks, because two Portuguese citizens ended up being killed in the attacks that occurred near Saint-Denis Stadium and in the Bataclan showroom. Let me remind Manuel Dias and Precilia Correia here in a special way, presenting to their families, their friends and the entire Portuguese community a message of support and solidarity at this difficult time. However, I cannot fail to point out that, during those hours of terror, some of our compatriots had a very courageous role in helping survivors of the tragedy, which deserved the recognition of the French authorities and of the French media. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That is also why we come back here today, in this House, to reaffirm that we are very proud in our communities scattered by the world and, in particular, by the Portuguese community living in France. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak to this community to which I also belong. This is a community that loves, in a passionate way, its country of origin, but which is also recognized in the values of the country where it resides and therefore there is no Portuguese in France that does not vibrate at the first accords of Marseilles. This way of being supportive of the country of origin and enterprising in the host country has been a clear value for our country. The Portuguese community in France is today an economic reference, through its 45,000 companies, and politically through the various thousands of political frameworks. A community that sees itself in a country that has recovered its external credibility over the past four years, conveying clear signs of trust, stability and a fulfilling country. It was these signs that allowed an unparalleled investment in Portuguese democratic history of communities in your country, which made a huge contribution to the success of our economy, particularly with regard to exports and investment. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese communities look puzzled at the situation that the country is currently living in. They do not understand that in your country, in our country, those who win the elections do not govern. And they also do not understand that the agreements that are presented by others do not have the consistency nor even the consistency that actually enables them to respond to the wishes of those who are abroad. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] These Portuguese also do not understand that a path that has mobilized all Portuguese, including those who reside abroad, can now be called into question on issues that aim only to achieve political survival objectives. These are worrying signs for those who live abroad and for the small and medium-sized investment in our country. For these Portuguese, Portugal has to give continuity to the policies that enabled it to overcome the crisis and give the image of a stable country politically. The Portuguese residents abroad, in October, with their vote, made their choice, a clear choice and, above all, a choice that calls into question four years of speeches in this House, in which much has been said of emigration only as a weapon of political shooting. The electoral results in the circles of emigration were the best answer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Unfortunately, this intervention had to adapt to a reality that we considered tragic and which unfortunately still had further developments today. What has to be has a lot of strength. However, as always, life must continue. Therefore, after the attacks, Paris seeks to return to normal, despite the climate of insecurity that has settled down.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u19	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u20	I'm done now, Mr. President. I ask for some condescendence, all the more so that the Portuguese community in France is expensive, as we know. Its inhabitants realize, as we all should realize, that we should not be hostage to these cowardly attacks, because that would be the worst answer to what happened. Our community comes back this weekend to organize a set of events, thus taking back its normal activity. I finish by recalling the words of General de Gaulle, in 1944, in the House of Paris, at the time of the liberation of the city. De Gaulle stated: « Paris, Paris, Paris, Paris martyrisé... but Paris liberé! » That is, a Paris that had been offended, a Paris that had been destroyed, a Paris that had been martyred, but a Paris that was released, and released by the Parisians themselves. These are words that are partly appropriate at the moment we live.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u21	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u22	I will now finish, Mr President. But this is not a Parisian or simply French issue, not even a European issue. It is a global issue, it is a global issue, because it crosses borders and must overcome national interests, because what is at stake is a fundamental good and an essential pillar of the world in which we live and we want to continue to live: freedom. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u23	Mr Pisco, for clarification, wrote himself. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u24	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, I confess that he was initially ready to congratulate Mr. But I also confess that I was surprised at this moment, which must be of unity, being mixing two things that are completely impossible to mix. This type of bias is unacceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are no words that come to describe the horror that happened last day 13. Not even the most pungent emotion can sufficiently manifest the feeling of pain in front of the hundreds of victims who, within a few hours, were lying, at various points of the city, in a bloodbath. The light city was crushed in the face of the cruelty of the attacks and the obscurantism they represent. And again, but now with much more violence than last January: there were more than 500 victims, including also Portuguese citizens, more than 130 people died, many still in serious condition, more than 350 were injured. A whole country, the world in a state of shock and revolt. And there were also many Portuguese victims. There are so many Portuguese who live in Paris that it would almost be a miracle there are no Portuguese victims as well. But there were also heroes, such as Mr. José and his wife Manuela, doorkeepers in a building next to the Bataclan showroom, on Oberkampf Street, who helped, until exhaustion, the wounded and that a newspaper honored, with the title: Joseph, the angel of the guard of those who escaped the Bataclan. And it is clear that this reference to these Portuguese is a pride for all of us, that Portugal is also showing its solidarity there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese community in France feels both pain and any French, as any one of us, nor could it be otherwise. France is the second country in Portuguese. In France — and particularly in Paris — the days live in a mixture of pain, sadness, restlessness, disbelief.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u25	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u26	There is an immense perplexity that the numerous manifestations of solidarity do not come to express. There are no minutes of silence or mourning days that erase the tragedy of the past day 13. This is not just an attack on freedoms and tolerance; it is an attack on humanity. And it is therefore very gratifying to be mixing these two political intervention plans. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u27	To reply, Mr. Carlos Alberto Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u28	Mr President, Mr Paulo Pisco, in fact he could have applauded, because I think that my speech, on behalf of my parliamentary group, is well suited to this House. It is good to mention here the sorrow to the families of Manuel Dias and Precilia Correia. It is that for this House there were people who died in France, but there, in France, died Portuguese who, day by day, contribute and work in that country. Therefore, it would have been good that, in addition to the Left Block, which made a reference to this matter, the Socialist Party, in the first intervention, had it remembered our community, which, being present, was once again the victim of the attacks. But I also want to tell you that I came here to make a political statement on my electoral circle and unfortunately we had what we had. Now, on your bench, you have the right to make a political statement about Lisbon, about the port, about Braga, but when it comes to the communities, you are disturbed. For communities, you have no words, the communities for you are marginal, peripheral and forgotten. [[PS protests, having some Members beaten with their hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't leave the furniture. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u30	In fact, I also observed his silence when I mentioned other points, such as the perplexity of our communities in the face of the country's situation, his silence regarding the four years in which migrants were apparently angry with Portugal. They were! And so they have given us the best result since 1991, because whoever is out there can compare and check what has been done here for four years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And your silence, today, here in the Assembly of the Republic, is, in essence, the recognition by Mr. Paulo Pisco, who moves to the Portuguese communities, that this is the feeling of the people who are out there. Therefore, I thank you for the coherence that today, here in the House, I have not had any words about what I said about the relationship between the communities and the country, particularly with regard to the economy. Emigrants know who took the country from bankruptcy, migrants know who took the country from the first pages for the worst reasons, and migrants know who saved Portugal. And for this salvation, emigrants also contributed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u31	For a political statement, Mr Bacelar de Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to Article 108. that of our Basic Law, « The political power belongs to the people and is exercised in accordance with the Constitution ». [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u33	So, in a democracy, he wins those who best know how to interpret the feelings of voters! [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u34	Win those who best know how to respond to their expectations and aspirations! And, therefore, the PSD/CDS government coalition has failed to meet the conditions to govern! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The count of the votes actually entered into the polls quickly confirmed, at the beginning of the election night of 4 October, that the parties of the PàF coalition — the PSD and the CDS — had lost the absolute majority previously achieved through a post-election agreement in the early elections of 2011. Through electoral acts, expiry and renewal of mandates, a principle of political responsibility and accountability of all electors is realized — both those of the majority and those of the opposition. Two-thirds of the voters said clearly in the legislative elections that rejected the policies of poverty and civic degradation pursued by the two parties that ruled... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] ... and expressed their unequivocal preference for all the forces that opposed these policies over four and a half years, and who rekindled hope in a real alternative, emerging from a new government solution. However, although denied by the facts, the right coalition desperately fights for its survival and continues to cry out for the victory that has escaped it, even after seeing its programme rejected by all other parties represented in this Parliament :... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the People-Animal-Nature Party, the Greens Ecological Party, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Socialist Party. Respect for popular will means, precisely, respecting the decisions of the legitimate representatives of the people. We have seen an exercise of transparency in recent weeks. The terms of the agreements reached between the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens are public and explicitly guarantee the majority support of the Assembly of the Republic to the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Neither the post-election agreement between the PSD and the CDS in 2011, nor the PàF coalition in 2015, nor the « government commitment », hastily sealed between the PSD and the CDS last October, none of them has ever been subject to such wide exposure and strict public scrutiny as the understandings now reached on the left! The right coalition is so concerned to spell out the text of these agreements that it has forgotten the Government Programme for the XIII Legislation, approved by the National PS Commission on 7 November 2015. It has forgotten that all the programmatic changes resulting from the negotiations with the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party were included there, and that the PS, as it had already done, in an unprecedented manner, with the public presentation of the macroeconomic scenarios last summer, has now taken care to ensure the compatibility of the amendments agreed with the budget strategy and the goals originally proposed in its electoral programme, ensuring compliance with the European and international commitments to which Portugal is bound. In contrast to the deplorable efforts of irresponsible destabilization promoted by the PSD/CDS coalition and its resigned government, this majority solution, generated in the Assembly of the Republic, has been welcomed with great understanding, political tranquility and financial serenity at the national and international levels. What the generality of the social partners and civil society institutions demand is the urgency of a solution that puts an end to the present indefinition and guarantees stability in the current parliamentary framework. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nothing more absurd and surreal than the surprising proposal of the Prime Minister of a constitutional review, which completely denies the commitment placed in the constitutional review of 1982.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u35	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Management governments are ongoing incidents in the functioning of democracies. They are not a solution, they are a transitional constraint that is always desired as soon as possible. They are only an exceptional circumstance, whose persistence becomes particularly painful and inappropriate when, notoriously, the conditions are created so that the democratic will, expressed by the Portuguese people in the legislative elections, can be materialized in a governmental formula for the legislature that responds positively to the broad shared aspiration of a true political change — just, consistent and lasting!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u38	I will finish, Mr. President. Popular will is not reduced to an algebraic equation. The unknown are not predetermined; on the contrary, it is for the elect to interpret the meaning of the mandate entrusted to them by the electors. So it's time for the PSD and the CDS to recognize their defeat... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u39	Defeat? Oh, my God! It's all the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u40	...and to resign themselves, with dignity, to the honorable role that democracy always reserves to minorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u41	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u42	It is false that the country is experiencing a political crisis. There is nothing more normal in the life of a democracy than dialogue and dissidentity, permanent negotiation and the construction of consensus that can break new paths.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is the nuclear allocation of Mr President of the Republic « to ensure the normal functioning of democratic institutions ». It is precisely in the name of this value and with this objective that the Constitution entrusts the President with his own and exclusive responsibilities in the process of formation of the government to overcome them, when they have become irremediable, but essentially to anticipate and prevent them. That is what he will soon do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u45	In order to clarify Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, they have applied for clarification. Members Telmo Correia, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Jorge Costa and Antonio Filipe. He informed the Bureau that he intended to answer all the questions raised globally, so he has the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Telmo Korea.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u46	Mr President, Mr Vasconcelos, I would like to say to you with goodness and tolerance, because that is what inspires your intervention, that it actually proves a maximum — moreover, attributed to a relevant thinker of space immediately ahead of me — that history is always repeated twice: the first in the form of tragedy and the second in the form of comedy. [[Laughs and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The first time was in the government programme debate last week, and the second time was now, in which we are already in a more or less comedy version on the same subject. Secondly, the honourable Member has done something that we have not seen so far—we have not seen on the election night, we have not seen in the debate on the Government Programme, we have not seen in any circumstances. Mr Deputy, for the first time, came here and proclaimed victory, which is absolutely extraordinary and which no one has yet done. The honourable Member has come to Parliament now and in good time, because his merit as a constitutionalist is recognised, but where was it when these things happened? It is that I brought the newspapers of that time—and I don't go with them every day—and there was no one in the country who had not realized that it was the coalition that won and that the biggest loser was Dr. António Costa. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u47	No one had any doubts about this. We needed the honourable Member to come here and say so! Thirdly, I must say to the honourable Member that this 'thing' that will be under construction is called'management','manage', 'thing', i.e. 'thing', which causes enormous enthusiasm throughout the left. It is April to come back, are the walls falling — the Berlin Wall fell, the Lisbon Wall or the wall wherever it is... — was the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course) that ended 40 years later... Mr. Member, you know what the only problem is? They forgot to warn the voters of this small fact during the election campaign,... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] ... they forgot to warn that the wall would fall, that the PREC would finish, that they would all join together! It is because they went to the elections with contradictory programmes, they still have contradictory programmes and what you have to present to this day, the roles that you have signed at the closed door, and someone who has pulled out a selfie, are, in an expression that has become famous in our political debate of the last few days, very "little", so we know so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u48	You've exceeded the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u49	I shall finish, Mr President, by inviting the honourable Member to say, as a constitutionalist, whether or not he recognizes that this is the time of the President. The House has taken its decision and the President's decision will be, whatever it is, absolutely legitimate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u50	‘What is it?’? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u51	What cannot happen, Mr President, is that we have, as we saw in the Left Block, Members and even leaders call the President of the Republic 'head of sect' or, as we saw yesterday, a member of the Socialist Party refers to the President of the Republic as 'head of a gang'. That can't happen! Respect the decision and we shall be here to make that same discussion. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u52	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u53	Mr President, Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, I respect your intelligence very much and therefore ask me to give you some latitude in the interpretation of what I am going to say to you: win the elections that have the most votes! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] I never thought I had to tell you this face to face: win the elections that have the most votes! There was a coalition that presented itself to the elections, won the elections and there were other political projects that also presented themselves to the elections with identical intentions, even several times declared, of winning and losing them. on hearing Mr. Deputies speak of the high electoral forum, I was left with the idea that the Socialist Party, in these dramatic and radical changes, seems to want to overcome the well-known perpetual and constant will of the Portuguese Communist Party to win all elections since April 25, 1974.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u55	I never thought the Socialist Party would come to this. The Socialist Party lost the elections. More, and I ask you a direct question, honourable Member : in the PS primary elections in September 2014, what was the slogan of the Socialist Party? The Socialist Party announced to the country that they were elections to elect the Prime Minister. Was it not true that the Socialist Party announced to the country that these primarys were for the election of the candidate to the Prime Minister? For this candidate the Prime Minister has won the Socialist Party's primarys as we know it, has presented the election and has lost it. In good rigour, Mr, in the curial application of Article 187. the Constitution, taking into account the election results and weighing all the elements that this expression of cana interpretation contains,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u56	« Lata» is what you have!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u57	... almost could say that the only militant of the Socialist Party who has no right to be identified as Prime Minister is the one who has applied directly and expressly for this position and lost: the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u58	Mr. Deputies, it's been too long. Thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u59	I wanted to finish, but I am being interrupted, so I thank the President for his magnanimity. [[PS protests.]] Mr Bacelar Vasconcelos, let me say the following: in democratic elections, voters express positive preferences, vote in favour of the political project in which they are most concerned. It is not worth, it is not curious, it is not democratically honest to want to make from this choice of voters an agreement of negative wills, a « geriatric», as someone has already called it, which does not pass from a set of mental reserves, which has no consistency, which has no viability in the future. That is why, Mr President, it is becoming increasingly expressed in the interventions of the Socialist Party, which is moving beyond the electoral results but from the electoral truth that this country faced on 4 October. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u60	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u61	Mr President, Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, of the two previous questions, it is noted that the right has already kept the speech last week in the bag of bad ideas. We have heard Passo Coelho say — little supported by the CDS, it is good to record — that, not getting the majority in the last elections, it was necessary to hold new elections. In order to make new elections, a constitutional review was needed and, since he did not have enough votes to make a constitutional review, there had to be a suspension of democracy from Bethlehem and a management government. Well, in the interventions we just heard today, no constitutional review, no repeat of elections, nothing that the right has been saying over the last week. It seems to me that there is some conformism in the benches on this side. That's a good sign!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u62	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u63	And the question to Mr. Bacalar Vasconcelos? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u64	I would like to ask Mr. Pedro Bacellar de Vasconcelos the following question: we are in the Assembly of the Republic, a sovereign body, which, unlike the Government and the Presidency of the Republic, does not have diminished powers, has seen its legitimacy renewed in the elections a month ago and is now in a position to ensure the formation of a government with an alternative policy to which it has been followed so far. I ask Mr. Pedro Bacellar de Vasconcelos, an illustrious constitutionalist, as he sees a President of the Republic, who has given possession to a government that already knew not to be able to raise a majority in this Assembly of the Republic, may insist on not giving possession to a government that has already insured and demonstrated to the country that has this Assembly of the majority necessary to take possession. How can one accept and understand that a President of the Republic can maintain, under the circumstances that the country lives today, a whole nation in suspense, all the decisions to be taken, on behalf of a stability which, you know, is only postponed by this same will to keep the country in suspense? Mr President, this is the question I wanted to put, leaving the note that all the threats and innovations that the right presented to us have evaporated from the political scene for a week. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u65	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u66	Mr President, Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, I would like to congratulate you on your first intervention in the plenary session of the Parliament and ask you two questions about the intervention you have brought us. Having listened to your speech and now to the requests for clarification addressed to you by the honourable Members. Telmo Correia and Carlos Abreu Amorim, remains a great mystery in the air: if the right has won these elections for what do you want others? Oh, my God! [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]] If you still think you won the elections and didn't lose them, you'll be very happy... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Filipe has to ask the questions because otherwise Mr Bacelar Vasconcelos cannot answer. Please continue, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u68	Mr President, I would say that if you continue to think that you have won the elections and are very happy and happy with your victory, we hope that with your defeat you will be able to do something better for the country than you have done in the past four years. Mr Telmo Correia said recently that now is the time of the President and that the President's decision must be respected, whatever it may be. Well, I ask you for the following: I do not know what requirements is that the President of the Republic did when he appointed Mr Pedro Passos Coelho to be Prime Minister. What we all know is that the only guarantee Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho gave was that his programme would be rejected in the Assembly of the Republic. So we now ask: what is the political and constitutional legitimacy of Mr. President of the Republic, with regard to a proposal for a constitution of a government that has, at the beginning, guaranteed its passage in the Assembly of the Republic, not to accept or at least to protect such a solution? I would like to hear your opinion on this issue, Mr President. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u69	To reply, Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, history repeats itself: in the 19th century, Karl Marx had already pointed to this judicious circumstance as to a conservative victory that was precisely linked to the beginnings of universal suffrage. That is why it is worth recalling that we are at the heart of the issue we are discussing here, not primarily the President's inhibition in the last six months of his mandate to dissolve the Assembly, but the deep, structural and structural sense of the inhibition of the dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic in the first six months after his election. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u71	Democracy, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, is the Government of the majority and does not exist alone. As I began to point out, the political power that belongs to the people is exercised in accordance with the Constitution. But, allegorically, we could say that the Constitution is the side of the secretary of the democratic will of the people. It is the Constitution that transforms votes into mandates, it is the Constitution that assigns a bonus to those who are bound to benefit from the highest average of the Hondt method.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u72	All right! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u73	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, as you well know, simply go through the pages with regard to situations of exception covered by our Constitution to understand it — the great fear, the great danger that the Constitution seeks to conceal is that the parliamentary dependence of the Government, the parliamentary nature of our political system cannot be perverted by the semi-presidential moderation designed to achieve extraordinary situations in order to achieve the opposite of what is the justification for the position of the President of the Republic : ensuring the normal functioning of democratic institutions, not embarking on artificial crises, not embarking on a struggle for the loss of power that at the end of four and a half years. Members of the PSD and the CDS understood that by divine law they were eternally handed over to them. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u74	For a political statement, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Unable to achieve an electoral majority and a political majority that would allow him to rule, the Portuguese right has given a speech of rescue of old ghosts and has given himself to an even more extremist extremism than that which has marked his policies in the past four years. Isolated, the right one cries out for the old dichotomy that has always been gripped by political impotence: either she or chaos. However, right extremism has no relation to reality. To the detriment of their ideologists and their political interpreters, even the markets help them in blackmailing fear: even today Portugal issued debt with very low interest rates. The same markets that the right has always invoked to legitimize all attacks on labour rights and all policies for the impoverishment of people and democracy categorically lie that the democratic end of right-wing governance is the end of the times which it foretells or the tragedy implicitly makes sure it is imminent. The nerve and irritation of our right is perceived: there are democratic conditions in Portugal to put an end to the cycle of austerity and attack on work and to the constitutional project of social, economic and cultural democracy. And, above all, there is an "uncountable" social will to put an end to the aggression of the middle class and the poorest and the rescue of the whole democracy that the Constitution of the Republic enshrines. The tragedy that the right announces to the country is, after all, only its tragedy,... [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] ... the tragedy of those who know that their time of political domination has come to an end and that democracy requires that another time now begin when the Constitution is even the supreme law and that the rights of all and all are even essential. That is what the right does not tolerate, that is what makes it more and more extreme its discourse and its practice. The right has lost and knows you have lost. On the other hand, the right has tried to anticipate its own defeat. In 2011, even before being Prime Minister, Pedro Passos Coelho stated that, and I quote, « government members cannot recruit unlimited a sort of parallel administration for their offices ». In 2015, when he knew he would stop being Prime Minister, he tried to guarantee more than one hundred nominations of people from his political area to high positions on the state apparatus. There is no reason why democracy is not fulfilled and it is not fulfilled now! All the artificial slowness imposed on the procedures for the formation of a new government which corresponds to the stable majority conditions created in this Assembly of the Republic is intended solely to degrade the situation and facilitate the pressures and blackmails of the same always, of those who will never give up being « owners of all of this ». The fact is that in this Parliament there is an alternative capable of responding to situations of social emergency in which the right has placed Portugal and of doing with conditions of stability and in the horizon of a legislature. Teimar, by political whim or by ideological rigidity, in not materializing this alternative in government of Portugal is a pure political play without any sense of responsibility. It is hoped, therefore, that the constitutionalists who yesterday went through Coelho and Paulo Portas gathered to advise them have given them the right advice that Portugal does not need to engage in a constitutional review of fantasy and invented for the pure game of political entertainment, but rather must comply with the dictates of quickly constituting a government supported by the majority of Parliament, as it can only be in democracy. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] And from a President of the Republic, who was faster than the shadow itself when he tried to protect his government about to evaporate by the irrevocable resignation of Paul Portas, it is expected that it will be responsibly cease to do little of the country and ensure the regular functioning of democratic institutions. That's your duty, that's your oath. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]] The President can, of course, hear those who understand, as long as so many conversations do not make him forget what is truly essential for a democrat: the five million votes, all with equal political dignity, all with equal quality of representation of the popular will, who have defined the current composition of this House and who have determined the existence in it of two alternatives of government, one with political conditions of majority to meet and another without these conditions and who is a social and political minority. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] For this reason and because the Members and Members of this House were all elected by the people without any prize for those who first arrived, electoral fraud and coup d'état constitutionale would be forced to have an inexplicable government of management against the political majority that represents the majority of our people. [[Protests by PSD Member Conception Bessa Ruão.]] Invokes the President of the Republic that there is no reason for haste, if he himself was five months as Prime Minister of a management government. It is the theory of "Ai agenta, agenta" transported to the field of the system of government. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u76	Attention to your time, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u77	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. If then Prime Minister Cavaco Silva endured five months in management, isn't there in the country now to endure about eight or nine? « Hold on, hold on » suggests the President. However, it should be remembered that then Prime Minister Cavaco Silva presided over a government that waited, under management regime, for elections to be held, while today a possible management government would follow-CL- would be a legitimate electoral act that determined a composition of Parliament that shows the impotence of the right to form a majority that gives stable support to a government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, turn the page of austerity, put the country to work, respond to people and their longings for dignity, respect whole lives of work and suffering, give no pretext to the markets or to anyone to blackmail the country and democracy are the demands that the people demand us to respond to and that we do so with a government that has majority democratic support to make all these answers concrete. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u78	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the beginning of the Parliament in which I was given the floor for the first time in the Vice-President's condition, I would like to congratulate all of you. The Bureau noted the inclusion, to request clarification, of three Mrs. Members, to whom Mr José Manuel Pureza wishes to respond together. That is why Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u79	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, I welcome you for your speech, which in fact goes to the heart of the political moment we are living in. We have heard with some incredible expression two often used by the media and by the two parties on the right in public interventions: one, the political crisis we are experiencing, and another, the alleged fraud that is being perpetrated against democracy. As far as the crisis is concerned, it is not clear how the normal functioning of a Parliament in a democracy can result in any kind of crisis. A Government has presented itself before this House with its Programme and this House, majority and democratically, on the basis of the mandate of the representatives, who have received it from the citizens, rejected this Programme and, in parallel, expressed the capacity to form an alternative, to build a response to the problems that Portuguese effectively feel in their day-to-day relation to the real crisis that the country faces: the social crisis, the economic crisis, the constitutional crisis, the migration crisis. The real crisis is not a political crisis — that is solved, that did not exist, is only about the functioning of democratic rules in a democratic Parliament. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] But the second perplexing expression is that of fraud, as if the functioning of the institutions, as if the functioning of democracy, as if the existence of four parliamentary groups faithful to their mandate before the voters—doing what they said at the time of election that they would do, that it was to overthrow austerity policy, turn the page, build an alternative for people, to return them, to preserve essential public services, to ensure that the Constitution was met—it was not normal. All this is normal, I'd say more, it's a yawn. This is what happens in democracies in Europe outside, in the world outside. Parliaments build alternatives and this Parliament has built a governmental alternative. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] Fraud, it seems to me - and I ask - if you agree, Mr José Manuel Pureza - is artificially prolonging what is, by nature, transitory and it is intended to present as a stable solution what, by definition, the Constitution only provides for a phase of transition between governmental moments. In fact, the idea of a government of management as an alternative solution is incomprehensible, because what the country needs is a full government of functions, and it is unnecessary because there is a majority in this House capable of exercising that mandate with responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u80	Mr. Deputies, pay attention to your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u81	Finally, and incurring a vice that we have been accustomed to for four years, this idea is potentially unconstitutional because it is clearly not for that which our democracy created the figure of management governments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u82	Mr António Leitão Amaro, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u83	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, thanking you for your speech, I want to say that it leaves me a little perplexing — confirming the idea that there are things that seem to be turning the world upside down — listen to the Left Block today to legitimize its action in the will and in the word of the markets. It's interesting. In fact, things change and the Left Block seems to have changed a lot when it quotes as a source of authority for a certain way the word of markets. It is indeed extraordinary. But, sir, don't assume a future that hasn't happened yet...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u84	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u85	Don't anticipate!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u86	Don't take policies that haven't changed yet.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u87	Less presumption!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u88	Don't assume a country that's different from the one we have. Mr President, the markets also speak, like the Portuguese, about the reality they see and on the way they want. The policies that we have today and which give results in job creation, economic recovery, but also in the reliability of our public accounts, are those that we have today, with today's policies and not with a future dream for you that has not yet happened. Therefore, Mr President, what the Portuguese have now recovered and are recovering is not the result of your'song tomorrow' ; it is a recovery course that the country has already done, that the country is doing and that the Portuguese have chosen to continue. But, Mr President, let me ask you a few questions about the elections. Did I understand or do the Left Block argue that legislative elections are a plebiscite act? Are you a referendum? Are they a choice of "yes" or "no"? The Left Block presented, as the CFP, as the Greens, as the PS, proposals, as we have presented ourselves with ours, but your proposals had 10 %, those of the 32 % PS, which are very different from yours, and ours had more votes than any other.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u89	You have exceeded the amount of time you were given, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u90	So, honourable Member, for you and for the Left Block a legislative election is a plebiscite act? I know that the Socialist Party said it was coming to the elections to choose the Prime Minister and the Left Block, perhaps, it's not that different either.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u91	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u92	I will finish, Mr. President. I, whenever I entered my land, Viseu, saw a poster from the Left Block and the only face was from Mrs Catarina Martins. After all, wasn't it also the Left Block that presented a choice for Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u94	Finally, I ask whether or not the honourable Member and his party adhere to all the choices of the Socialist Party's electoral programme, except as regards the amendments they have agreed. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u95	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u96	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, I would like to congratulate you on your statement. The question I would like to put to you is related to the recent statements by the Prime Minister, Passos Coelho — although Prime Minister of a government in management, but Prime Minister — defending a constitutional review in order to be able to make early elections in its own way and in its light. On this subject, we would like to mention some aspects. First, we must not forget that the former PSD / CDS government, in the four years of its governance, has seen several measures, which wanted to impose on Portuguese, to be unconstitutional; we must also not forget that the current PSD / CDS government, in management, has already violated the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, for example, in the process of privatization of TAP ; nor do we forget the statements we have heard from Passos Coelho that reveal well the despair and the way PSD and CDS are gripped by power. But more serious than this is to come up with a coup, a coup with a constitutional review to be able to have consecutive elections until they give them the result that is favorable to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u98	That is: they clearly continue without accepting that they have been defeated, they do not accept that their Government Programme has been rejected in this Assembly of the Republic and that, given the change of political forces in the Assembly of the Republic, PSD and CDS have no conditions to continue to govern and do not comply with the election results. from there they want to impose a blow, a blow in which they often invoke—and we have heard several times leaders of the PSD and the CDS talk about it—respect for the principles of our democratic regime, but it seems that this respect is only when it is favorable to them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u99	It's the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u100	...because, then, when it isn't, what do you propose? A constitutional review to hold elections until these give the results you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u101	Attention to your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u102	Mr President, I shall conclude by asking Mr José Manuel Pureza what is the assessment of the Left Block on this matter. Are we in fact in front of two parties, PSD and CDS, who have been defeated in these elections, whose policy has been defeated and who, by force, want to impose a path that the Portuguese do not want? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u103	To reply, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u104	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that have been put to me and say that I will be brief in the answers. I begin by referring to the questions put by Mr Leitão Amaro to tell you what you know well, as I know, that we can have, with regard to market attitudes, very different attitudes, very different understandings, completely antagonistic judgments, but you know, as I know, that markets, particularly financial markets, are always about forecasts. That is why being talking about heroic results from present data is something that speaks of something else that is not exactly the markets. You know that's the case. But I would like to tell you something else that seems important to me: when you advise me, with great vigor, that I do not take up a future that has not yet happened, I would like you to address these words precisely to your own party and the party with whom you are associated, because, in fact, you have done nothing other than, with regard to the possibility of a political majority in this House to be able to form a government, to assume a future that has not yet happened and, in fact, paint this future in the most tragic and direst possible way they can achieve. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So I think that's what we're talking about. As for the questions by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves and Mrs Paula Santos, allow me to answer them together, because they touch on matters that are similar. Mrs Deputies and Mr Deputies, every day that passes in Portugal today, the situation in the country from the point of view of the system of government and no one — in good rigor — understands that. Indeed, if the current Government of Pedro Passos Coelho were to apply the criteria which the President of the Republic so often stated as decisive criteria for the existence of any government, that government for a long time would not be in office, it would not, in fact, have truly been the subject of possession. In this regard, I conclude by saying what seems most important to me: in fact, in view of the current composition of the Assembly of the Republic, of the existence of a set of agreements that allow the formation of a government with a legislature horizon and with the aim of changing the political content of government, not transforming this reality into government is, I believe, creating an artificial political crisis that the country does not understand, that the country does not support and is giving pretext to all entities to create problems in the country, to blackmail the country, to create pressure on our economy and on our society.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u105	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u106	On the side of the Left Block, we are prepared to do what we need to do so that there is a positive political solution for the country that breaks the cycle of impoverishment, the cycle of austerity and which defends wages, pensions and employment. [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u107	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The terrorist attacks in Paris have caused the horror and solidarity of all women and men of good will everywhere in the world. They aroused the rejection and indignation of the citizens of the European Union who, instinctively and rationally, sided with the victims and their families and supported the French authorities and their people in seeking a firm response within our tradition and values so that absolute evil does not prevail over the common good. The Assembly of the Republic was today an expression of the pain we share and of the friendship we practice. But the consensual elaboration of the vote of regret does not exempt us from, on the contrary, calling on us to reflect on important issues surrounding the terrorist phenomenon, its infiltration into European soil, its ability to organize and kill in the name of fundamentalism, making use of all the vulnerabilities that Europe and each of its nations have. We must also start here: if we want to maintain a Europe of freedom, we cannot give the enemies freedom and the right to life itself any facilities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The French President has referred to the situation as an act of war. Just and courageously so it is. However, it is appropriate to have the notion of asymmetry of circumstances. What the so-called "Islamic State" does is a non-conventional (and terribly lethal) guerrilla with the capacity to recruit and fanatize young people, very young, who, not uncommonly, have European nationalities. Using the technological capabilities and communication that will globalize its attacks and internationalize its provocations, and certainly relying on funding and logistics that, for the time being, have not proved to be inadequate to organize—as a new guerrilla from the 21st century—attacks not only simultaneously, such as resorting to bombism or the widespread suicide massacre. With complicities in radical dams and naively permissive legislation, the Islamic State constitutes a single threat in a different Europe in territory, creeds and cultures, which we want. To the non-conventional guerrilla of the Islamic State — surgically directed against Western values — the West has, so far, reacted with more classic methods: limited-range air operations; cooperation between intelligence services, which is not always easy; a diplomatic strategy not always clear before the identity of the opponent; and even we recognize it, not always a lucid choice of allies. in this bench, we are among those who do not confuse Russia with the Soviet Union. Russia is millenary, already there before the Soviet Union, there it continues after it and will certainly continue there. Moreover, Russia is of Christian tradition and, for geographical reasons, it has a very accurate perception of the price and risk of infiltration of Islamic fundamentalism. Europe will always have common human rights differences with regard to Russia. But it is enough to be realistic to realize that the European Union and Russia have no divergent interests in matters of consultation and combating this terrorism matrix. More: with no solution to the tragedy of Syria outside the international community, and having Russia voting in the Security Council, only dramatic prolongation and chaos in Syria will be avoided, with a substantial understanding between at least the powers of the Security Council, which includes, as we know, Europeans and Russians. That is why it is a sign of hope (still initial, but a sign) that the Vienna talks allow a way of agreement and that, following the Paris attacks, the need for coordination is recognised. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The evidence that we are facing a global phenomenon, not merely a national phenomenon, reveals how the rhetoric of the dissolution of the political-military blocs is outdated. The Western world needs a secure Europe and a strong Atlantic alliance. No country provides its safety alone, in the face of threats of this calibre and this danger. It is therefore natural that the clauses that guarantee mutual protection in the event of an attack see their validity validated. A certain naive pacifism is definitely not a response from serious states and societies open to evidence of terrorism as a kind of fifth column in European soil. In this respect we must also not be mistaken: Europe is the world of tolerance in which we want to live and accept diversity, which, moreover, only enriches it, but Europe will never be able to overcome if it is ashamed to say and assume what it is. A few years ago, a strange debate prevented the European Union from referring to the Jewish-Christian tradition as the origin of its way of looking and living civilization. Today, this fear of our references, this fear of our values, reflects a dangerous ethical disarmament, although sometimes unconscious. That undermines our strength. Any compromise between major religions and terrorism is, of course, dangerous and ignorant; it is also, in our view, the lack of cultural identity in what it is to be European. It is precisely for us that having European citizenship implies a voluntary and clear adherence to the values of freedom, democracy and tolerance, which we all profess. [[CDS-PP applause.]] What is not acceptable is that one can see that it is possible to benefit from the rights of a European and use them to destroy the peace of Europe and the lives of Europeans. As the French President acknowledges, the same applies to aspects of nationality or immigration legislation: Europe — and well! — welcomes and integrates, but should not hesitate to monitor closely and, if necessary, expel those who conspire against their safety. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The strengthening of this response and of the States affected in judicial, administrative and security matters is inevitable and it is unacceptable that a certain dimension of the 'politically correct', which always tends to justify the unjustifiable — and, worse, to try to explain the abominable — comes to deceive Europeans about what is in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u109	You've exceeded the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u110	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Democrats know what the rule of law borders are; they also know that if democrats are not to respond for Europe, they will gain space and voice all extremism. Security and freedom are not contradictory values, a fair balance is always needed, knowing that, at the moment, more than ever, our security is the essential condition of our freedom. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u111	There are no entries to request clarification from Mr Nuno Magalhães. Mr António Filipe has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We were informed yesterday by Mr President of the Republic that there is a political crisis in Portugal. There's no reason to be. There is only one artificial political crisis because Mr President created it and it only survives because Mr President feeds it. The desire to remain in power costs what it costs the country, the Portuguese right does not comply with the results of the elections of 4 October, in which it lost the majority and, faced with the real perspective of its withdrawal from power, bets on the creation of an artificial crisis and on the fact achieved of a government of management that stays legitimately in office and that, as seen in the scandal of the sale of TAP, does not hesitate to exorbitate its powers, compromising, in an intolerable way, decisions that can only compete with a government that leaves the elections of 4 October.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u114	It is not acceptable that, after 45 days on the legislative elections, the country will remain without government, as a result of a crisis artificially created by Mr. President of the Republic, which, for mere reasons of political disagreement, takes time to accept the only constitutionally valid governmental solution, based on the political will expressed by four parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic and which, as a whole, correspond to the absolute majority of this House. The work of the President of the Republic in the current political situation deserves our most vehement rejection. I am not referring to statements that reveal their total political alignment with the defeated government on 4 October and whose Programme has already been rejected by this House, nor do I mean any clearly disproposed comparisons with other political moments, which have already been publicly denied. What is truly serious in the present situation is that the President of the Republic, who should be the first to guarantee the normal functioning of democratic institutions, is artificially delaying the entry into office of a democratically legitimate government, assuming powers that the Constitution not only confers upon him as expressly denied it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u116	What is enshrined in Article 187 of the Constitution. the, on the appointment of the Prime Minister, is textually the following: « The Prime Minister is appointed by the President of the Republic to hear the political parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic and taking into account the election results. Do not keep on seeking. ” from here are two illusions that should be obvious: as there is no direct election of the Prime Minister in the Portuguese political system, the electoral results in question are for the Assembly of the Republic, so what is relevant to the appointment of the Prime Minister is the composition of the Assembly of the Republic. Not having, as there is no absolute majority in the Assembly of the Republic, the meaning of electoral results for the formation of government is measured by the hearing of political parties. Knowing the positions of the parties, it is possible to determine the possibilities for the formation of the government. Parties are not consultants to the President of the Republic. It belongs to them, in fact, to the decisive word. As you know, the President of the Republic has decided to appoint a Prime Minister without support in the Assembly of the Republic. I mean, he heard the parties, but he didn't listen to them. It preferred to act on the basis of a non-existent and legally irrelevant tradition. It is that the Portuguese democratic regime is not governed by tradition, it is governed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u117	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u118	And if there is tradition in this matter, it would be to appoint as Prime Minister the only party leader with conditions to form government with parliamentary support. That's always what happened in the past. And if there was a « tradition» in this matter, Mr President broke it and appointed a Prime Minister who was the only guarantee to reject his government by the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u119	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u120	With the appointment of Dr. Passos Coelho, the President of the Republic sentenced the Government to an announced resignation, which took place with the approval of a motion for the rejection of its Programme by the absolute majority of Members in effective office, in specific constitutional terms. Thus, 26 days were lost. In view of the stated provision—and passed to writing— by four parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic, which together correspond to the absolute majority, to enable a lasting governmental solution, in the view of the legislature, the President of the Republic does not appoint the new Prime Minister, keeps the Government dismissed in management functions and decides to hold hearings. Mr President of the Republic is free to hold the hearings you want and on matters that you understand very well, but it must be said that, with regard to the appointment of a Prime Minister, these hearings are constitutionally irrelevant. The only hearings that count are those of the political parties with parliamentary representation. The hearings, and the delay in appointing a Prime Minister to replace the dismissed one, are allegedly justified by the need of the President of the Republic to consider the robustness of the solution offered in the parliamentary framework. But it is not legitimate for the President of the Republic to invoke any dilemma justifying his delay in appointing the future Prime Minister, for the simple and obvious reason that the President of the Republic is constitutionally prevented — and well! — to convene new elections until the end of its term of office. In the face of a Government with parliamentary majority support, the only constitutionally possible dilemma for the President of the Republic is between the appointment of the Prime Minister who holds this support or the dissolution of Parliament, returning the word to the people. The President cannot imperil a government for failing to agree with its Programme or its guidance. This is solely for this House. If the President is unable to dissolve Parliament until the end of his term of office, there is no dilemma here. The President of the Republic, or appoints the Prime Minister accepted by Parliament, and was already late yesterday, or assumes the responsibility of leaving the country without government, opening an institutional conflict of unpredictable consequences, whose resolution would be left to his successor. It is not said that the President of the Republic can appoint a presidential initiative government. It is very clear that the political responsibility of the Government is effective before the Assembly and not before the President of the Republic. Since no government can grant parliamentary support to survive, in a framework where there is the possibility of a government formed in the Assembly of the Republic with majority support, any presidential initiative government would be condemned to rejection and its subsistence in management would always translate into an unsustainable framework of paralysis and institutional confrontation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u121	Attention to your time, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u122	I will finish, Mr. President. And don't say that the President could keep a government out of management by the summer of next year. The President of the Republic cannot leave the country without government, without State budget and in total legislative paralysis, with the permanent risk of the government resigned to extravading its limited management powers and generating a situation of instability and permanent institutional conflict. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, in respect of the Constitution, the President of the Republic has no alternative. The responsibility for the formation of governments is not presidential but parliamentary. Without the power of dissolution, the President of the Republic cannot refuse the governmental solution which Parliament offers to the country on the ground of acting outside the Constitution and of becoming responsible for launching the country in a situation of ungovernance of unpredictable consequences. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, four Members have signed up to request clarification. Members and Mr António Filipe informed that he intends to respond in groups of two. Mrs. Graça Fonseca from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u124	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, in the political situation we are living in and following his political statement, I think there is something important to clarify: there is a party or, better, a coalition of parties that won the elections and submitted to this House its Government Programme for approval. And, in this House, all the Members, I insist and reiterate, all the Members individually considered...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u125	All of them? Not me!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u126	... they felt that it was to reject this Government Programme, for reasons that are public and known. In other words, the Government of the League Programme proposes all the measures that each of these Members, in campaigning before the citizens, have defended themselves against. You understand the right, you understand the coalition that this is illegitimate because all Members would have to approve the Government's Programme, because it would be mandatory for this to take place from the formation of the government. The question arises is what the role of each of the Members of this House is, following the presentation of the Government Programme, which did not have a majority in this House to be approved and therefore did not necessarily have the conditions to form the following government. I repeat, what is the role of each of us in this Chamber? Will we be obliged to vote in favour of the Government Programme which contains measures that each one of us publicly defended in the campaign to be against? Oh, my God! This is a matter that needs to be clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u127	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u128	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I begin by complimenting you on your political statement. I wanted to leave you a first note that is, above all, sympathy for the Portuguese Communist Party. I wanted to warn the Portuguese Communist Party that it had lost a monopoly that was very dear to you and to all those who are members of the Portuguese Communist Party, which was to be the only political party in Portugal that would happen what happened in the election results always won the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u129	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u130	This monopoly, Mr. Deputy, has just lost in these elections and it is something that must concern the Portuguese Communist Party, because it has also lost it for the Left Block and the Socialist Party. But Mr António Filipe, at the top of the rostrum, drew up a set of considerations, which I can read, but I think I will not be far from what you have said, or rather made a set of strong pressures, I would say, to what Mr President of the Republic should be doing. I do not want to draw legitimacy from what you have said — in our view — about what you think is the understanding that the President of the Republic must have of the election results, but I ask you one first question: where is Mr Antonio Filipe who, from the top of the same rostrum, was indignant, for example, when these parliamentary groups criticized, see only, judicial decisions of the Constitutional Court and considered these illegitimate criticisms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u131	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u132	Does the honourable Member think it is less or more legitimate to pressure, as he did, a sovereign body like the President of the Republic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u133	Well remembered! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u134	Have you forgotten what you said in other forums, on other occasions, on far less important issues than what you put today in the country? Oh, my God! Mr António Filipe, we should understand! I remember well what the Portuguese Communist Party’s bench said during the 2004 political crisis! What were you saying about what should be done by President Jorge Sampaio? Every way to Bethlehem, you legitimized these auditions! At each meeting of the State Council, you said: "All right, this situation has to be considered! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I never heard him say: "O Mr President of the Republic, hurry up there and name Dr. Pedro Santana Lopes, because there is an absolute majority in Parliament who has won the elections and who understands it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I've never heard you say that, sir! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u135	You've run out of time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u136	I shall end by thanking you for your kindness, Mr President, with a very direct question. I heard Mr.António Filipe say that once again Mr. President of the Republic made a mistake by appointing a Prime Minister who was already known to see his Government Programme rejected in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u137	It was a deliberate mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u138	Would you like to ask Mr António Filipe which times has the Portuguese Communist Party lied to the Portuguese and the President of the Republic? And my question is very clear. I heard several interviews by the Secretary-General of the Portuguese Communist Party, since he was with the President of the Republic at the hearing until the date of the signing of the hidden agreement, saying that there was still no agreement, that they were in negotiations. What times did you lie? the times when I said there was still no agreement or the time when I told the President of the Republic that there was already an agreement, and they have been playing negotiations for 15 days? Oh, my God! Tell the Portuguese now, please! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u139	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u140	Mr President, Mrs Graça Fonseca, the question you have raised is very relevant because what the right has to say is that before the presentation by the PSD and the CDS in this House of the programme of a government without parliamentary support, all other Members were forced to accept, even if they had an alternative. That is to say, we have an alternative, but you are the one who governs; we are obliged to support your government, because you think so.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u141	It's 40 years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u142	Therefore, this is an absolute contradiction, Mrs. Member, because whoever decides the formation of governments is the parliamentary majority that forms and that effectively corresponds to the expression of the Portuguese will in the polls. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has mixed a number of things and said a series of inaccuracies that will allow me to correct. Well, first of all, the honourable Member compares the criticism I just made to the President of the Republic, to his performance...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u143	Pressures!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u144	... or, in this case, to its failure to act, with what the PSD said in relation to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Let me use a popular expression, that is « to confuse the Beira road with the road side».
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u145	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u146	This is because it is one thing to issue a legitimate opinion on the performance of a sovereign body,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u147	It's pressure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u148	... Another thing is to defend, as Mrs Teresa Leal Coelho has become public, the existence of legal sanctions against the Constitutional Court judges, against a court decision. [[PSD protests.]] That, Mr President, from the point of view of the separation of powers, cannot lead to any comparison. But, Mr President, on the positions of the CFP, they have been very clear since the evening of the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u149	They are, they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u150	You won!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u151	Since the evening of the elections, when the Secretary-General of the CFP, stressing the defeat that you had suffered by losing 700 000 votes and by losing the absolute majority, he considered that it would be entirely possible to form an initiative government of the Socialist Party, which is all very clear, all very clear! to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members who complain a lot, saying that it took a long time to have an agreement between the various parties...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u152	We're still waiting for that deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u153	Look, Mr President, if Mr President of the Republic had not appointed Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, that agreement would certainly have been published much earlier. Unfortunately, it wasn't! [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u154	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u155	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement. I'll try to find a basis for understanding here. Is it or is it not true that the country went to the elections and elected 230 Members with equal legitimacy in this Assembly of the Republic? Oh, my God! Is it not true that PSD and CDS had the opportunity to form government, but have failed? Oh, my God! And they failed because when they presented here the Government Programme failed to win most of the votes of elected Members with equal legitimacy in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u157	Is it not true that, in the face of this failure, a majority of Members with equal legitimacy were formed in this Parliament, capable of presenting a stable alternative to government? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But is it not true that it is not up to the right-wing Members, or the President of the Republic, to assess the goodness of this majority's programme? Oh, my God! [[Oh, my head, my head!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u158	The program coming out of this majority is a political program that is not right to evaluate! In fact, the alternative proposed here by this majority is a very different alternative from the alternatives that the right has so far propagated in social communication. What is proposed is the fulfilment of the Constitution, rather than a speedy revision and without any way of the Constitution; what is proposed is governmental stability, rather than a government of management over the coming months, which will bring nothing more to the country than instability, exactly what you are proposing. Members say they want to avoid it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u160	Perhaps so, perhaps because they know of the inconsistencies and irresponsibility of the alternatives that exist to this parliamentary majority,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u161	of your agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u162	... none of the gentlemen. Members had the courage to come here to defend neither a management government nor a constitutional review. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u163	We're still waiting! We heard the criticism, we heard the fear of losing power, we didn't hear alternatives! [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u164	Mr President, I should like to conclude by asking whether, in view of all these facts, it is true that there is no constitutional and political reason for a decision by the President of the Republic to appoint a management government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u165	Mr. President of the Republic is not bound!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u166	... other than the protection of its own political area and a primary ideological prejudice against the left in Portugal? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on BE, PS and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u167	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor also to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u168	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, first of all, I would like to say that I have listened with interest to your political statement and, in fact, there is a part of it that is obviously not new — we have been hearing the same over the afternoon — and there is another part that I would not, in fact, want to break up, because it does not have to do with you, at all, with the Socialist Party and I do not. This is because the CFP did not want the centre-right to govern, nor when it had just won the elections with an absolute majority. So, there...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u169	And we were right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u170	...I wouldn't expect any other attitude on your part. What surprised us in this context was not the CFP, which surprised us in some way in this context was in fact the Socialist Party, which made a choice and, from our point of view, a choice that breaks with the entire tradition of our parliamentary system and our system of government and that is, from this point of view, unpublished. In other words, the Socialist Party, in a difficult and demanding situation in the country, rather than the formation of the majority, obviously assuming its role as opposition and alternative, has chosen to try to form this majority that you are now part of. And this majority, obviously, is what it is! It is a majority formed after the elections, it is a majority formed from a negative majority, it is a majority formed by those who lost the elections, it is a majority led by the greatest defeated of the election night. [[Exactly!]] [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u171	This is not normal in our system of government, and Mr António Filipe — I know that he is attentive to these matters — changes our system of government. This is because we had a system of government made so that there were no majority, made to allow anyone who was a minority to rule, and now we have a system of government in which there are only two hypotheses: either there is a majority on either side, or there is a majority on the other side. I don't know if this change is positive, I think it's a negative change, but it's my opinion. As for your consideration of the interpretations of the Constitutional Court and others, I would just like to say to you, Mr President, that in my view this is not a problem on the road and the road of Beira. Mr President, if President Jorge Sampaio, in front of a stable majority in Parliament, wanted to defeat her and convene elections, they would say: "Very well! That's what I should have done! ; now, if the current President wants to consider what choice he makes, in a situation where the word and the role are of him, they say: "It is unacceptable! We have to put pressure on it! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is not a question of 'confounding the Beira road with the roadside', Mr President, you are probably confusing the human race with your cousin German. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] This is the problem, it is not the problem of 'the road and the road of Beira'! The confusion is yours, it's no one else! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] In this regard, Mr President, I would like to say that there is an obvious contradiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u172	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. Yesterday I heard Mr.António Costa, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, saying: "Well, to the right, to the right, to the right centre does not want to be in management". You said, didn't you say, Mr. António Costa? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u174	I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u175	I heard it, I said it, of course! Now, Mr António Filipe is coming to say: « You want to be in management at any price! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, it is no longer just about NATO, the euro or Europe that you have to understand, you have to understand this too, because of two or we want or do not want to. So don't go that way! You only have one thing to say here: "We want to get to power! We want to get to power! We want to get to power! We want to reach power at any cost! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, even at the end of the day, we have heard from insults to pressure throughout the afternoon, but, frankly, as a parliament I have known for many years, tell me whether you are convinced that pressing, attacking and even insulting the President of the Republic will take you somewhere. It's just that I'm not convinced of anything about it, but honestly, during this afternoon, I didn't see them do anything else. Mr President, it would not be better to respect the President's decision, which he will certainly have thought and which, after hearing the parties, will soon make a decision which will certainly be sensible? Oh, my God! It seems to me that it would be much better, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u176	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u177	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Telmo Correia, thank you very much for the questions you have put and that allow me to make some references. Of course, I find it curious that Mr Telmo Correia or Mr Hugo Lopes Soares recently brought here the example of Dr. Santana Lopes, who is the final example that there is no elections for Prime Minister in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u178	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u179	Therefore, it is interesting that you bring this example. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But what makes all the difference between these moments that you invoke and the present moment?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u180	Your opinion has changed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u181	It is very simple: at that time the President of the Republic had the power to dissolve Parliament and the current President of the Republic does not have and, therefore, now there is no dilemma. Now, or the President of the Republic accepts, as is his constitutional duty, the government that is offered to him by the Assembly of the Republic, or leaves the country without government. This is the question, there is no dilemma here, there is a responsibility that must be assumed: either to respect Parliament, or to leave the country in a situation of ingovernability. This is what Mr. President of the Republic has to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u182	And he'll take it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u183	I would like to say that we are entirely free, and it is our duty — we are in Parliament — to express our views on the issues most relevant to national political life. And this question, the question of the government of the country, is indisputable! It's incontrovertible! It would not go through anyone's head, in the face of the situation that the country is living, that there was a parliamentary session, a plenary session, with political statements and that we all had to pass next to this situation, as if the country had not been waiting for 45 days for a government that could enter full office.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u184	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u185	You are, of course, free to reject the programme of any government presented here, as we have been free to reject the Government programme presented here. [[PCP, BE and PS applause.]] What is not legitimate is trying to artificially prevent this programme from being presented, and that is what we are currently facing. You will assume responsibility, as we assume ours; now what is not legitimate is to try to prevent a government that has parliamentary support in this House from being appointed and from taking office. I conclude by saying that Mr Telmo Correia recently, and Mr Hugo Lopes Soares also alluded to this, said that the CFP, on the night of the elections, announces that he has won.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u186	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u187	I must say that we have a lot of fame, but there are others who have much more benefit, because 45 days have already passed over your defeat and you are still claiming that you have won, and we do not know when they will end this speech! [[Rice and applause from the PCP, the PS, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u188	Also to give a political statement, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Telmo Correia will excuse me, but the PSD and the CDS are in absolute contradiction, because they now say they would not accept, under any circumstances, remain in a management government, or say that they would certainly agree to remain in a management government. Do you know why, Your Honor? It's because despair is a lot, it's a lot to not give up power. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country is suspended waiting for the late President of the Republic to take the decision for the formation of the government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Indeed, on 10 November the Assembly of the Republic decided to reject the PSD/CDS Government Programme as the President of the Republic already knew it would happen. Parliament has taken this step, because in it there is a majority of Members belonging to various political forces who do not associate themselves with the PSD and the CDS, in their desire to continue to cement structural impoverishment policies and the disqualification of Portugal's development potentials, making us always more dependent on the outside. In fact, PSD and CDS have no parliamentary support, in addition to the 107 Members who hold together, which is insufficient to support a government and to enable these serious measures to be taken for the country, such as those approved in the previous legislature. They lost the majority they had in the Assembly of the Republic and the political forces that committed themselves before the voters to the change of policies today have the majority of Members. As much as the PSD, the CDS and the President of the Republic do not comply, that was the will of the voters! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The President of the Republic already knew all this when he appointed the PSD leader as Prime Minister and when he gave possession to the PSD/CDS government. I already knew that the government would fall at the time of the adoption of motions for rejection of its Programme, and I already knew that, as a result, it was dragging a ruling decision for the country which was being imposed, and imposing, as a matter of urgency. The fact is that dragging the situation will give rise to a climate of instability which is the President of the Republic who is building in an incomprehensible way. What is a fact is that there are already more than 40 days, since the electoral act, which has led the majority of PSD and CDS members, and it is already more than a week there, since the parliamentary lead of the PSD/CDS government, translating the Portuguese election decision, when they elected the 230 deputies to the Assembly of the Republic, from which a new correlation of forces and the opportunity for political change in the country resulted. The Greens reaffirm that, in view of the parliamentary composition resulting from the election results and the representativeness of the political forces with parliamentary seats, the conditions are created to form a government of the PS initiative and to generate and manage a sustainable and sustainable governance solution, with policies that promote better living conditions for Portuguese and unlock the potential for the development and creation of the country's wealth, a dimension of sustainability that adds the environmental, social and economic components of development. It also adds that common positions have been established, both by the Greens Ecological Party, both by the PCP and by the BE, with the PS, which translate an extended vision to the XIII Legislation and which reflect parliamentary convergences found for the objectives and issues, urgent and emerging, to generate a political change that brings hope to the country and its people. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic does not determine that the Prime Minister and his government leave the President's personal and political taste but that the Prime Minister is appointed by the President of the Republic, taking into account the election results and hearing the political parties with parliamentary representation. The election results have determined the loss of the majority of PSD and CDS members and have created the conditions for an alternative of governance which the President of the Republic cannot, in any circumstances, ignore or relativize. in this sense, any option for the maintenance of a management government by the President of the Republic could not fail to be interpreted in three cumulative ways: first, as a support to the PSD, the CDS and its policies, rejected by the Portuguese; second, as an act of retaliation, in relation to the Portuguese who made choices in elections and determined a majority of Members in Parliament willing to promote political change; and third, as a decision that would determine an official stop in the country, without room for manoeuvre to make decisions and creating a political and institutional crisis that would have no reason to exist. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] In view of all this that has been mentioned, Mr President of the Republic has no alternative to a decision other than that of a government of the PS initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u190	That's pressure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u191	... supported in the election results and in the availability of the various political parties with parliamentary representation, which will hear again. And nothing more than this! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] In addition, as demands of assumptions and even of policies to be pursued, the role assigned to the President of the Republic will be extravagant, insofar as the conditions for the regular functioning of the institutions are created. On the Green side, we are here to contribute to measures and policies that promote better living conditions in the present and future for so many unemployed, so many emigrants, so many precariouss, as a result of previous policies that have been pursued in an absolutely insensitive way.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u192	You want to conclude, Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u193	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are here to contribute to different policies that believe in people, that do not use them in favour of the great economic and financial interests, that dignify our society, that they always manage better environmental standards and ways of life compatible with the sustainable use of our resources. These are some structural and programmatic commitments of the Greens that we will materialise in many proposals and solutions during the legislature here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from The Greens, the PS, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u194	He signed up to request clarification from Mrs Heloísa Apolónia Mr João Galamba. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u195	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I believe that, once again, it was evident, especially to the right that she insists not to see what has happened, that there is a new majority in this Parliament able to enable a government of the Socialist Party and to support its government action. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u196	Until when?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u197	The right can continue to insist and pretend that it does not exist, but now it is here, in front of your eyes, a new majority and I hope that this time you have understood what has happened. Mrs Deputy, one of the difficulties of the Portuguese right is not to understand standards which she herself has adopted. The Portuguese right, PSD and CDS have tried to pass this idea that the constitutional norm that prevents the dissolution of Parliament in the first six months, after its election, is somehow a blocking force. We have had this reading of the Constitution itself and now we have read a standard that has always been defended by the CDS and PSD. Now, it must be reaffirmed here that this rule which prevents the dissolution of Parliament within six months after the elections is not, contrary to what PSD and CDS try, now and not in the past, to suggest, something that prevents the holding of elections, is something that exists to value, exactly, the elections that have just occurred... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u198	...and the parliamentary composition of these elections. It is therefore against the elections and against the Constitution that we should read this somewhat exotic position against the history of the PSD itself and the CDS itself, which is to want to abolish a norm that exists to value democracy, value elections, value the vote of the Portuguese people and value Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic. But, honourable Member, the question I want to ask is whether you understand that the country can wait another day to start reverse the policies that these four years have left us. Can the country wait for the reversal of income cuts? Can the country continue with a government that has attacked and wants to continue attacking wages and the world of work? [[CDS-PP protests.]] Can the country continue to live with a government that clearly did not know, is unable and no longer able to defend the interests of the country and the Portuguese? [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u199	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u200	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I am grateful for the question put. I believe that PSD and CDS would like to wait, they would like to wait and hope to stay, but the Portuguese can no longer wait, Mr Deputies, because the heinous policies that have been practised and their consequences have had such repercussions on the lives of the Portuguese that it is essential to generate policies, in the sense of reverse and to promote the quality of life deserved to the Portuguese and that the Portuguese dictated at the last elections on 4 October. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] I believe that what the country realizes today is that the legislative elections serve to elect 230 Members to the Assembly of the Republic, and whoever wants to tell them that these elections serve to elect a Prime Minister! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] This is because it is the parliamentary composition, the parliamentary framework and the representativeness of each political force in the Assembly of the Republic that all the rest goes on, and in this 'all the rest' includes the formation of a government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u201	There is an alternative of government and it is therefore this alternative of government that has to be immediately viable. In our view, Mr Galamba, as we have said, Mr President of the Republic, if you do not want to create an institutional political crisis in the country, and you have the duty not to create it — and you want to contribute, as the Constitution said, to the regular functioning of the institutions, only one alternative, which is precisely to make it possible, in what it has to do with, a government of the Socialist Party's initiative and which will be viable here in the Assembly of the Republic, as the parties which have the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic have already said, and will certainly reaffirm this before the President of the Republic. In view of what the Constitution says, Mr President of the Republic decides on the basis of the election results and after hearing the parties, i.e., after hearing the parties' availability for this legislature or what parties are committed to for that legislature, the result is stated and there is no other possible decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u202	I will ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Mrs Emília Santos, to announce the introduction of several initiatives. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u203	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: drafts of lein. 34 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of remuneration reductions in the Public Administration ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 35 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extinction of the extraordinary contribution of solidarity ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 9 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the disclosure and study of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in compulsory education ( The Greens ), 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the definition of a set of priorities for family farming for the establishment of a status of Portuguese family farming ( CFP ) ; and Parliamentary assessment No 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 246 / 2015 of 20 October amending Law No 90 / 2009 of 31 August ( Approves the special scheme for the protection of disability ), and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 265 / 99 of 14 July, as amended by Decrees-Law No 309 -A / 2000 of 30 November and 13 / 2013 of 25 January ( Proceeds to the creation of a new benefit intended to supplement the protection granted to pensioners of disability, old age and survival of social security schemes in situations of dependence) ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u204	Mrs. Members, moving to point 2 of our agenda, we will start the joint debate on petition No 338 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the DECO — Portuguese Consumer Protection Association, requesting the Assembly of the Republic to adopt legislation in the area of telecommunications, which reduces the legal maximum period of loyalty(24 months) and imposes criteria and limits on the charges charged to consumers, in order to ensure transparency and predictability, and, in general, of the projects of lein. 30 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Electronic Communications Act — Sets limits on the payment of the users by the contract resolution in the loyalty period ( tenth amendment to Law No 5 / 2004 of 10 February ) ( PCP ) and 32 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of customers of electronic communications services in loyalty contracts ( BE ). To introduce the PCP bill, Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u205	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the DECO and the more than 157 000 subscribers to the petition we are discussing today. The large number of subscribers is well aware of the extent of the problem of the relationship between consumers and the electronic communications operators that the petition addresses. The Parliamentary Group of the CFP has also reached consumer concerns that operators do not use as a rule of contract duration the 12 months that the law advises but the 24 that draws as a maximum duration. When the customer intends to denounce the contract, as a rule, he is obliged to pay the whole of it, i.e. the payment that is required to him goes far beyond what would be acceptable: the depreciation of the equipment or the investment that the operator has made in parallel to providing the service. Another recurrent complaint relates to the mechanisms that operators use to eternize contracts using files such as the offer of promotions near the end of the loyalty period. In many cases, the simple price update or acceptance of a promotion offered by the operator gives the operator the right to impose a new loyalty period. This happens in cases where there is no new contract, no addendum to the previous contract, no additional investment by the operator. This behaviour will condition the freedom of the consumer to opt for the solutions and communications operators who, at each time, better serve their interests or their financial availability. In order to respond to the concerns of consumers and subscribers to the petition, the PCP Parliamentary Group submits a bill. We did not propose the amendment to the loyalty period, because we believe that this matter needs to be deepened, but we propose that the information on the duration of the contracts be clear, perceptible and prior to the conclusion of the contracts. The CFP also proposes that at any time during the loyalty period the consumer has the right to be informed of the date of expiry of that period and of the value to be paid in the event of early termination of the contract. The CFP also proposes that, during the loyalty period, consumer charges arising from the termination of the contract on its own initiative may not exceed the costs incurred by the supplier with the installation of the operation, and that any consideration for compensation or compensation is prohibited. With this standard we recognize the operator's right to be reimbursed for the investment he has made to start the operation, which we do not recognize is the right to be able to collect values according to his financial cash expectations. We have lived for a time when the expectations of Portuguese in relation to their future incomes and their rights have been greatly shaken. Moreover, we believe that the regulatory entity should, in particular in this regard, effectively perform its supervisory function and lay down rules and limits on the relationship of business operators with consumers. For the CFP it is necessary that this relationship between consumer and operator be balanced so that the rights of the former can be guaranteed. It is for this purpose that we present this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u206	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u207	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we express our full willingness to discuss other solutions in the course of the legislative process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u208	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to welcome the Consumer Defense Association, the DECO, its associates and all those who subscribe to the public petition that today is present to the Plenary, for this initiative that enriches our democracy. The telecommunications market, unlike the promises made at the time of its liberalisation and privatization of operators, continues to not allow consumers real mobility and prevents them from benefiting from the various offers made by operators, including the imposition of excessive loyalty periods(24 months) and disproportionate penalties for the benefits they have received. The reality at this point lies, once again, certain ideological positions of those who see in liberalization and privatization the solution to the evils of the world. These two factors, the excessive loyalty period and the disproportionate penalties, originate in an important portion of consumer claims. According to DECO, the communications sector is the most complaints and the loyalty period is the largest part of these complaints in this sector, and it is worth noting that this petition was subscribed to by 157 000 citizens. The Left Block follows the concerns of the DECO, as regards the need for greater transparency and security for consumers and the requirement for detailed information operators on the various components of the price, the costs of resolving the contract and the reasons for the existence of the loyalty period. The costs of regular provision of the service must be discriminated against at the time of the contract and the costs of the regular provision of the service must be explained by the other costs which underpin the loyalty and which will be amortised in the same period, in particular the costs of the installation and of the subsidised equipment. It is also important to report on possible costs when resolving the contract, including disassembly or collection of equipment. However, after the period of loyalty, in the automatic renewal of the contract, the monthlyity must be adjusted automatically at the cost of regular service provision and the portion of the monthlyity relating to the costs that justified loyalty cannot continue to be charged, as is currently the case. On the other hand, in the event of an early termination of the contract, the compensation to be required by the customer must be linked to the number of packages that are missing from the same costs that have not yet been charged. We believe that information on how many monthly matters are still needed to complete the loyalty period and the current value of the costs to be incurred with this advance resolution should be provided on a regular basis. The Left Block is available to welcome improvements in this speciality bill, with a view to greater transparency, consumer safety and a more open, competitive market. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u210	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating the more than 150 000 Portuguese citizens who have signed the DECO petition and who propose the adoption of legislation which, in the electronic communications market, reduces the legal deadline for loyalty established within 24 months. The petitioners also call for criteria and limits to be imposed on the charges to be charged to end consumers in order to ensure transparency and predictability. I had the honour to be the author of the report which focused on this petition and which was, in favour of all political parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In the course of this process, which preceded this discussion today, in plenary, we had the opportunity to listen, in addition to the petitioners, the Ministry of Economics, the Competition Authority, ANACOM, the Association of Electronic Communications Operators, among others. I have returned this long process of hearings, and I have tried to bring together the position of all interested parties to the fullest extent, and today we must reflect on the conclusions we have drawn. of the assessment carried out, it seems to us that it will be beneficial to pursue an effort of reflection which may then lead to a possible legislative amendment, that is, to safeguard the interests of Portuguese citizens, customers of mobile communications operators. in this sense, we consider that, during the loyalty periods agreed between the operators and their customers, clear limits should be established for making contractual changes by the companies. Where there is a unilateral change by the operator, the consumer must be able to terminate the contract without the obligation to pay any penalty. The information to be provided to the consumer, either before or after signing a contract with an operator, must be clear and easy to access. Moreover, the presentation of commercial options that do not oblige customer loyalty should be made available with the same publicity as the other promotional offers. There is also another aspect highlighted in the report that I have submitted and which has, surprisingly, not merited any reference in the proposals submitted either by the CFP or BE. I am referring to the need to introduce protective mechanisms in the event of proven involuntary unemployment, thus protecting citizens who may suddenly be in a situation of great financial and social vulnerability to operators. In fact, we do not know whether the left parties have already met bilaterally or whether they have already reached a tripartite agreement. With PSD, reality is this... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] No grace at all, Mrs. Deputy. As I said, with the PSD, no left party spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u212	They've already said they're voting against everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u213	for our part, I must say that the bills submitted by the PCP and BE are clearly insufficient, since they have completely forgotten those who are or may be in situations of involuntary unemployment and therefore in situations of deep vulnerability. Basically, the left-wing proposals keep citizens in a position of great vulnerability and do not fully respond to the questions raised by the petitioners. For all this, the proposals, as they are, are insufficient for us. Despite this, we reaffirm here that the PSD is available to continue the debate on concrete legislative solutions in the field of specialty because, for us, above the political-party games, are the interests of the Portuguese citizens. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u214	Mr João Paulo Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In my first speech in this House, allow me to address a special word to Mr President, whose personality I have been admiring for several years, and it is therefore a particular pleasure to see him taking up these duties. Allow me also to welcome and present my compliments to all Members of Parliament and to all Members elected by the various parties, hoping that everyone will have a good performance throughout this legislature in the exercise of the mandate given to us in the past elections of 4 October. By concluding the greetings, I would like to leave a word of recognition to all the citizens who subscribe and in particular to the DECO, for the petition that we are today called upon to appreciate in this House. The theme of this petition is clear and affects one of the main problems that it is important to resolve in the legislation regulating the so-called electronic communications: the loyalty period. Indeed, and as it is public, there have been, and in an increasing number, complaints by consumers about the lack of protection that the regime of loyalty of contracts presents. In addition, these complaints are usually associated with others related to the information that is transmitted by operators to consumers. Mr President, we are therefore dealing with a matter of great importance and which is the basis of the relationship of trust which the parties, operators and consumers agree to in the conclusion of any contract: clear, easily perceptible and previously available information.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u217	This petition, among other merits, has already led to a set of hearings being held and a number of opinions on this subject have already been compiled. In addition to the DECO itself, Apritel ( Association of Telecommunications Operators ) and the sector regulator itself, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), as well as the evaluation of the Ministry of Economy and the Competition Authority, was also heard as an example. It is in this way that the Socialist Party feels that the need to strengthen the quality of information to be provided to consumers and the need to change loyalty periods is consensual. Thus, in our view, the conditions are met so that, in the specialty, we can appreciate the draft laws, both from the PCP and from the Left Block, without prejudice to any proposals that may occur there and thus continue to work which strengthens the protection of consumers in the existing regulations, while not neglecting the importance of the role of the operators of the sector. for our part, we are therefore available to carry out this work, making these initiatives possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u218	Mr President, thank you very much for the kind words that you have addressed to the President of the Assembly of the Republic and I also wish you an excellent performance in the legislature. For an intervention, Mrs Lília Ana Águas, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet, firstly, the DECO, and, on behalf of the DECO, all who have subscribed to this petition, which aims to revise the Electronic Communications Act. As we know, it is a law that has undergone, over several years, changes, which aimed not only the adequacy of the Community directives but also the adaptation itself to the new realities. It is not surprising, therefore, that in a sector such as telecommunications, which is always in constant technological innovation and with large marketing bets, there is a need for frequent intervention by the legislator. Well, that's exactly what you're checking again. DECO made it clear that the current legislative framework is not meeting consumer expectations and therefore all the suppliers of telecommunications services contracts have been in different legal dimensions. thus, the CDS believes that a weighted intervention should be made that truly serves the interests of consumers and does not call into question legal certainty. However, in order for this to happen, and according to the ECO alerts, it is necessary to improve and clarify the information provided to the consumer, especially in the area of early termination. This is because the consumer who signs a contract must know exactly, if it ceases, what exact values it will have to pay at any time. In our view, in order for contractual positions to be equivalent, it will be necessary to clarify which contractual objects are liable to be compensated. If it appears to be consensual that technological use must be compensated, the same is no longer the case with regard to the remaining periods of time, after the termination of the contract, where the limit must always be that of the legal expectation and never that of the entire service. Proportionality must always be associated with compensating values. In the petition, reference is made to the excessive period of time of loyalty, in this case, 24 months. However, the law itself clarifies and provides that customers can still enter into 12-month contracts. However, it remains to be seen whether operators provide their customers with this information. That is why, in order to ensure consumer rights, it will always be necessary for the regulator to help assess operators' respect for some existing guarantees. In our view, a legislative intervention must be considered and which allows for more transparency, more information, more capacity for action by the regulatory entity and more justice in compensation for early termination of the contracts in question. I remember: what is intended today is to increase consumer guarantees. But so that this intervention can be achieved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u220	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u221	I'm only asking for one minute, Mr. President. As I was saying, this intervention must be meticulous in order to balance two perspectives: firstly, the contractual balance and secondly, consumer access to information technologies at affordable prices. The CDS is certainly committed to achieving these designs in order to obtain partial benefit from the proposals presented here in conjunction with this petition. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u222	So we end point 2 of our agenda. We move on to point 3, and last, which consists in the assessment of petition No 499 / XII ( 4. a ) — Presented by Vítor Cristiano Roque and others, denouncing the way in which the Professional Course of Arts of the Externate Delfim Ferreira Show is being managed in Riba de Ave, municipality of Vila Nova de Famalíão. For an intervention, Mrs Anne Sofia Bettencourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject of plenary today is of great importance in the current political context in which we live. It proves that the free choice, the Statute of Special and Cooperative Education and the Statute of the Student are indeed appropriate. The banks of the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the PS, although claiming that education is central to the development of the country, do not present solutions that potentiate greater interconnection as agents of demand and quality of parents and students in school life. It is public that the demands of these parents and students, based on the assumption of their duty to defend the quality of education, led to actions that ensured and safeguarded the course of the students and the exercise of their right to freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u225	In fact, the involvement of all partners in the definition of a school network with greater diversification, capable of generating alternatives of choice for each family and for each student, resolved a question that many understood was made up of accident. We always advocate that choices should be made in an informed and free manner, that training offers must have quality to be recognised, that they should be value-added enhancers for those who attend and for the labour market. We are not advocates of an equal ideological sense, because nothing adds, because it does not favor alternatives, because it powers in intransparent systems... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u226	... and because the tow of a false equalitarianism of access does not guarantee an equal opportunity.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u228	We assume that it is by free choice, by transparency of processes, by greater involvement and accountability of all, including parents and students, that the system improves. We assume that this path is a promoter of greater demands and that it gives families a real power of influence and partnership with the educational institution. I therefore congratulate the petitioners of this initiative on the constructive way they have played an important role, how they have fulfilled and helped to fulfil and how they have been involved in building solutions that enable and strengthen freedom of choice and enhance the quality of the supply provided. Finally, a word to Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Vila Nova de Famalicão, for the defense he has made of these educators,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u229	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u230	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, a word to Mr. President of the Municipal Chamber of Vila Nova de Famalicão, for his defense of these educators, placing them at the centre of his political action, unlike local political forces, who, when voting against, demonstrated an inability to find solutions. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u231	For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u232	Mr President, I welcome you and all the ladies and gentlemen. Members present, with the best possible legislative session. The subject that this petition brings to us and denounces us is paradigmatic, from the point of view of the deresponsibility and inertia to which education policies have come during the Government of Passos Coelho, in particular those relating to artistic education. The last four years have been marked by a severe impoverishment of the educational offer.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u233	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u234	We witnessed the creation of a new education system, that of low cost education,... [[Congrats from PS Member Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] ... that transformed education into a mere format of students for essential knowledge and for exam training. It is difficult to identify where Nuno Crato spoke most, in the face of the disqualification in which he left the educational policies, but undoubtedly one of the most affected targets was artistic education. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u235	The Professional Course of Arts of the Show of the Externate Delfim Ferreira, in Riba de Ave, in the Town Hall of Vila Nova de Famalicão, which has existed since 2008, with an association contract with the Ministry of Education and Science, had the right to expect institutional protection, to which it is responsible to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions that assess and finance, the role of referee and guarantee the good continuation of its educational mission, which, moreover, until 2013 was of great quality and recognition. But when problems arose, especially after changing the direction of the school, serious problems between the management, students and parents, who conditioned academic work, the educational community was abandoned and handed over to itself. They sent communications to the Government, the Secretary of State for Basic Education, the Directorate-General for School Establishments, etc. , and did not get an answer, only at the end of the school year did they know of the existence of an inspection. The problems have been dragged for too long, Mr President, missing a follow-up of proximity and the introduction of a fundamental factor in this equation, mediation, the protection of students and the feeling of not giving up. All this was missing from the Externate Delfim Ferreira, and the proof is that students and parents had to resort to the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u236	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u237	...in view of the failure and inability of the Coelho Pass Government. Tens of professional art schools and a whole vital set of national artistic institutions have suffered, and much, with the disrespect with which they were treated by Nuno Crato — the recurrent lack of funding, failed promises, incompetent administrative procedures and a evident decrease in their role in the civic and cultural formation of Portuguese. Mr President, I conclude by saying that there is an urgent need for policies of proximity and decentralization of competences; there is a need for policies where arts and humanity are respected; there is a need for a commitment...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u238	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u239	... with vision and ambition for education. That is what we will have with the next left-wing government in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u240	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, to whom I would like to congratulate, because I believe that this is your first intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u241	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I welcome and greet the petitioners who, through an instrument of democracy, have brought here a discussion to which no government can escape, nor can so little escape their responsibilities. The problem of the Externato Delfim Ferreira is the image of a country that has been destroyed and abandoned by the policies of Nuno Crato over the past four years and we know well that the lack of democracy and transparency in school management is due to the resignation of the Ministry of Education and Government over all these years. Whoever builds artistic education, every day, with his own hands, at Soares dos Reis Artistic School, at António Arroio School, in theatre schools, ballet schools, in conservatories, knows well the policy that was implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u243	They cut in support and in money, either in the State Budget or through the POPH(Human Potential Operational Programme) ; they devalued curriculum programs of art teaching; they disrespected professionals in the area and also students. And this is the paradigm of the present. The state of art summarizes itself in a government in management, which thinks it can privatize TAP, but cannot transfer the state budget money to artistic schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u245	See the results: National Conservatory on the way to closing the door due to lack of money. Someone has been giving us music for the past four years. It's time to switch to "band", that it's really out of date! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u246	Mrs Carla Cruz from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party begins by welcoming the petitioners, the more than 4000 citizens who associated with this initiative. Obviously we cannot fail to comment on the speech of the PSD Member, because the PSD Member makes an intervention in which she does not mention the concrete problem that was experienced by the school population, by the students of the Externato Delfim Ferreira, and we well understand why Mrs Ana Sofia Bettencourt decides to talk about everything and nothing about the situation. But, Mrs Deputy, even because you were in the Commission at the time of the hearing of the petitioners, it was good that, even here with respect to the petitioners themselves, you would mention the specific problem, which was also the result of the previous PSD/CDS-PP's policy options, through Minister Nuno Crato. In fact, this problem has not been resolved in a timely manner by inertia, by the political option of that same Government and the Ministry. It is in the reply that the petitioner asked the Ministry of Education and Science itself to say, on the matter, that she asked DGESTE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ), who has been accompanying the situation, waiting — see! — in the school network for the school year 2015 / 2016 — therefore for this school year in relation to a problem that was identified in the school year 2014 / 2015 — the presentation of an appropriate solution, in order to safeguard the interests of their students. Here is clearly what was the political option, what has been the political option of PSD and CDS in the case of artistic education! But this petition also alerts to the problems caused by the fact that education is funded through the POPH (Human Potential Operational Programme), that everyone will remember: problems in financing, delays in payments to teachers, and to students themselves, transport subsidies and food subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u248	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u249	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this petition also draws attention to a serious problem that has happened and whose non-resolved early caused serious pedagogical damage to those students. Finally, Mr. President, Mr. Members, this petition draws attention to the need for an appreciation of the public education network and the extension of specialized public artistic education. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u250	I have the floor, for one speech, which I believe is the last in this debate, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, who has another parliamentary name in electronic control.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u251	Mr President, this problem will be solved shortly, I hope. Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 4000 citizens requested our reflection and our intervention to safeguard the Professional Course of Arts of the Performance-Interpretation, in the Town Hall of Vila Nova de Famalicão. I therefore begin by greeting the petitioners, in particular those who, eventually, are still with us today. They are citizenship exercises like this which also give meaning to the democracy we have conquered and the House we represent. The document that presented highlights the natural concern of parents and education officers with some problems verified during the school year that has already ended, fighting for the continuity of the course and, above all, for the protection of students. This bank and this government have soon regretted the situation which then lived and immediately began the necessary steps to resolve the problem. Of the assumption we all left, surely: in addition to the obvious higher interest of the students, what was important was to guard the maintenance of that educational offer in the council and, above all, an offer that would not distance the quality, rigor and the teaching requirement that this government has always defended, and defends. In fact, it is due to the political forces that integrate the current coalition the wager and the development of vocational education in the Portuguese educational system, which gives us greater responsibility for the socio-educational valorization of these courses, why, moreover, the claim of petitioners could not fail to be met. where, after duly verified, studied and pondered the question, guided by the greatest interest in the presence — that of the educators — the current government met the petitioners' request, maintaining the Professional Course of Arts of the Show-Interpretation in operation in the Town Hall of Vila Nova de Famalicão and following this school year in conditions of absolute normality, with serenity, rigor and demand that—and very well—are demanded of vocational education. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-11-18.u252	We have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the first item on the agenda for the debate on draft resolution No 2 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — On the statement of the main European commitments of Portugal ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and from the second point the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein. 1 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Repeals the Laws humiliating women who resort to IVG ( Revoking of Law No 134 / 2015, of 7 September, and of Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September ) ( BE), 4 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Restores respect for the dignity of Portuguese women and the safeguarding of their sexual and reproductive health by repealing Laws No 134 / 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015, both of 7 September ( PS ), 10 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Eliminates coercion and conditioning mechanisms on women in access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, repeals Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015, and reprises Law No 16 / 2007 of 17 April ( PCP ) and 14 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes Law No 134 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 and Law No 136 / 2015 of 7 September 2015 in order to combat illegal abortion and respect the dignity of women who decide to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy ( The Greens ). The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 14 minutes.]]
