ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I would like to ask the honourable Members. Authority officers opening the galleries. Let us begin our work with the reading of the dossier, so I give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein.os 7 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November, transposing Council Directive ( EU ) No 2015 / 121 of 27 January 2015 amending Council Directive No 2011 / 96 / EU of 30 November 2011 on the common tax system applicable to parent companies and affiliated companies of different Member States, and 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 82 - B / 2014 of 31 December approving the State budget for 2015 ; drafts of lein. 77 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Creates the Statute of the Professional Dancer of the National Dance Company and the Dance School of the National Dancer ( PCP ), which goes down to 10. the Commission, 78 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of the District Hospital of São João da Madeira to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 79 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Maintenance of the Fund's Hospital under public management ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 80 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Revoks Decree-Law No 138 / 2013 of 9 October, which defines the forms of articulation of the Ministry of Health and the establishments and services of the National Health Service ( SNS ) with the private institutions of social solidarity, as well as establishes the regime of return to the mercys of hospitals subject to the measures provided for in Decrees-Laws No 704 / 74 of 7 December, and 618 / 75 of 11 November, currently managed by institutions or services of the SNS ( PCP ), which goes down to 9. the Commission, 81 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of José Luciano de Castro Hospital, Anadia, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 82 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reversion of the Hospital of S. José de Fafe to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; and draft resolution No 53 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures for the creation of additional vacancies in the 2015 Medical Internship Competition ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the members of the Government here present. According to what has been agreed between the various banks and the Bureau, the methodology for our agenda will be the following: we will proceed to the discussion in general of Bill No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 82 - B / 2014 of 31 December ( Approves the State Budget for 2015 ). Before we proceed to the general vote, we will be interrupting the work for half an hour, at the request of the PSD Parliamentary Group to hold a meeting, and during this period amendments are accepted for discussion in the specialty, which will, of course, be dependent on the adoption of the bill in general. After the half-hour interruption, the debate will be held in the specialty, as will all the votes, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote. So in order to start the debate in general, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is an old matter, but so far it has not been resolved, which today brings us here as a matter of urgency. in the last few weeks, the newly-impossed government has been confronted with a problem called Banif. The restructuring of the Bank, which would allow the completion of the in-depth investigation process that the Directorate-General for Competition had started in the summer of 2015, was a priority which could no longer wait. This urgency was enhanced by regulatory pressure resulting from Banif's structural problems, which put pressure on its capital ratios and which, from the outset, called into question its economic and financial viability. The question was not new. Since the end of 2012 the European Commission had questioned Banif's viability and required the implementation of successive restructuring plans, more specifically eight, which were never approved. Banif was on a cruise for liquidation, with substantial losses for employment, for taxpayers and also for the regional economy of the Azores and Madeira. In January 2013 the State decided to recapitalise Banif with EUR 700 million of capital and EUR 400 million of convertible bonds. This State aid has only been approved as temporary, which has never been changed so far. at the end of September, a sales process was initiated, which was being conducted by Banif administration and ran until 18 December, the date on which binding proposals were expected. at the beginning of December, when this government took possession, there were the following alternatives: either Banif was sold in a voluntary sale process, which would follow the selling process that was under way; and this sale could not require additional State aid, i.e. the sale price had to be strictly positive or null. The other alternatives would have to take place in a resolution scenario and there were two possibilities: either the resolution was made with the sale of the business, or the resolution would be implemented with the establishment of a transitional bank. For the Government, the solution to be avoided, which was not a solution, was liquidation. The implementation of the purchase proposals showed that there was no possibility of voluntary sale. All binding proposals involved additional State aid. The Bank would then have to go into resolution, which happened on Saturday, December 19. Two Eurosystem decisions of the last week, more precisely from 16 December, have, however, drastically reduced the options available. A decision of the SSM's supervisory board (singlesupervisory mechanism) did not grant permission to the transitional bank in the context of resolution. thus, one of the resolution alternatives was no longer applicable. Another Eurosystem decision, in this case of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, withdrew Banif's counterpart status from 21 December. In other words, from that date on last Monday Banif would have to obtain its liquidity through emergency assistance operations granted by Banco de Portugal. The Bank, in the last week, had attended a deposit race following false news about its imminent liquidation. Thus we arrived on Saturday 19th, and to the negotiation conducted by the resolution authority for the sale of Banif's banking business, which was at present the only viable alternative in the present regulatory context. It is the result of this sale that justifies the budget of the amending State which is presented here today. The conditions of sale lead to an increase in the total expenditure of the budget programme contained in that document and an increase in the net indebtedness limits set out in the State budget for 2015. It is the price to be paid for, in three weeks, the government has to solve what the XIX constitutional government has not done in three years. Still, it's the lowest price. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u5	Mr Minister for Finance, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I ask you, Minister: how do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u6	Twice, on a set of three applications and on a set of two applications.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u7	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u8	Mr President, Minister for Finance, especially what has happened to the 'Banif' case, today there is a great consensus in the conduct of an inquiry committee, where everything should be found: the management errors that have led to public intervention, the contours of this intervention, the management of these three years and the resolution solution. And now, Minister, I hope that the reports of this committee of inquiry which have been approved will have the same scope in terms of vote as the reports of BPN and BES in the last legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u9	They're already looking for life insurance!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u10	This is because, with an absolute majority in existence, the Socialist Party has made these two reports possible, as was their seriousness, and I hope that the same will happen to this committee of inquiry. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But today we are here, Mr Minister, not to make this overall assessment but to make the assessment of your decision, of the government's decision, because it is a proposal from the Government that is here on the table. We know that the resolution's decision goes to Banco de Portugal. It is good that this has been recognized by the government, because in the past they did not always recognize, while they were only members of the Socialist Party. [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u11	But the model of the decision is yours. And in the model of this decision there are clarifications that must be provided, Minister. First, there were several proposals on the table, which is spoken in six. Who are they? And why did you choose this one to the detriment of others? Why Santander to the detriment of others? This explanation must be given. Second, Santander was the option chosen, but are the jobs safeguarded? We know that legal rights are safeguarded,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u12	... it would be wrong, because we are in a rule of law, but in the previous resolution, for example in the privatisation of BPN, it was assured how many jobs the purchasing entity would take.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u13	What a fine example!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u14	What now? Is there such a firm commitment? What about the demands, Minister? Is it also firm that Santander will stay with the agencies, either on the islands or in the diaspora? These are decisions that are not clear and that the Minister must explain to us. But there is still another decision here that, after a few hours, the Minister has not been able to explain to us. The Resolution Fund is strengthened, but it is reinforced exclusively with public capital; one year ago, the financial system was called on to strengthen the capitals of the Resolution Fund, but now this has not happened. We know that the financial system has not strengthened its beauty, it has done so because there has been pressure for this to happen, so that it is not just the public record to support this reinforcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u15	Exactly! Now it's turned out the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u16	Now, that reinforcement is zero, it's a reinforcement exclusively at the expense of taxpayers. And this allocation of costs, Minister, is something that is your decision and must be explained to all Portuguese. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u17	As an example of what has happened in other very important debates, the Bureau maintains a flexibility over 2 minutes for each request for clarification, since time is being cut in the overall time of each party, but will not maintain any flexibility as regards the overrun of global time. Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u18	Mr President, Minister, the PSD and the CDS have tried everything to make us believe that this is a problem that has been generated in recent weeks, despite the PCP, since the end of 2012, in early 2013, having brought this problem to the Assembly of the Republic and the PSD and CDS, at the time in the government, everything has been done to hide the real dimension of the problem. And at that time they handed over EUR 1100 million, as described above, to Banif, a bankrupt bank, of which only EUR 825 million was recovered, because the government simply resigned from accompanying the Bank to which it shot EUR 1100 million, knowing that it was no more than a capital ice cream. That is why, Minister, the first questions I raise are on this very subject. What follow-up has the former Government made from the moment, or even before, in which it made available to that Bank EUR 1100 million? What guidelines were given to the non-executive administrator? How did the Government support the development of the restructuring plans and the recommendations of DGCom on these restructuring plans? What link has been made between the government and the Bank? What guarantees did the government require and what did it do so that they could be used, in order to recover the EUR 1100 million that were placed in the Bank? Did the government have, or did it not, elements that would enable it to know that Banif was considered unviable and that it should have a solution? These questions can prove that the problem is not at present and that there are, in fact, deep responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS. But there are more responsibilities. The PSD and the CDS have refused to include Banif in the public sphere, particularly in the public banking system, with or without the direct participation of the General Deposit Box, as we all know. This option was simply not taken into account and perhaps at the time it could have saved the State from the rumb of EUR 2255 million, which now adds to the public debt, and to which EUR 750 million is added guarantees for toxic assets that Santander has demanded.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u20	They imposed harsh living conditions on the Portuguese during the attack pact signed with the IMF, the European Central Bank and the European Union ; they imposed cuts in wages, pensions thefts; they closed public services; they destroyed rights; all the pretext of remedying the problems of the bank and here they left the waste hidden to justify the propaganda of the ‘clean exit’ and thereby misleading the Portuguese eventually to obtain better election results. [[CDS-PP protests.]] This bill, also for lies and propaganda, has this cost, and this cost can still be higher, because, after all, the garbage and the clothing in our shoes that have now been taken from us are much greater than we thought, and it remains to be known whether the bank will have no other hidden problems to which the state will still have to answer. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u21	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u22	Mr President, Minister for Finance, the proposal here is unacceptable. It does not guarantee jobs and is unacceptable because it gives too much money to the taxpayers to Santander. in the background, this is about cleaning up a bank with taxpayers' money to deliver it to Santander. The alternative that best defends the interests of the country is the maintenance of the Bank in the public sphere. We are aware and certain that this would be the best alternative, even if this alternative involved determination in the face of the pressure in Brussels. What is not understood in this debate is the right position. The PSD and CDS government delivered EUR 1100 million to Banif when it was already known that Banif had problems in its future viability, as the right has hidden from the country. He put EUR 1100 million in Banif and said: "Go to your life! Do what you understand well for three years! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” For three years, the former Minister of Finance had Banif's file closed on the Ministry's table. For three years, the only right-wing plan was to restructure the Bank and sell it, and for three years it failed the only plan it had for Banif. Eight restructuring plans failed and nothing was done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u23	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u24	Banif went into non-compliance in December 2014, failed to return the money that the state lent him and nothing was done. The last period of the European Commission to restructure Banif, March 2015, was exceeded and nothing was done.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u25	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u26	Banif's auditor informs Banco de Portugal, which informs the Government that there are problems in Banif's capitalisation in October 2015 and nothing has been done. Nothing was done because PSD and CDS knew it was necessary to smile and make face « clean output ». And everyone knows that no one can smile and at the same time announce problems in the bank. So nothing was done to keep the face of 'clean output'; nothing was done because the plan was exactly that, the plan was to look to the side, whistle and hope that, from January, Brussels would again enter the country's gates and solve the problem that the PSD and CDS could not solve. And then it would be simple, the costs of going to Banif's deposits would remain in Brussels. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Brussels would be guilty of keeping the remittances of migrants. Brussels would be guilty of dismissals. What a simple solution the PSD and CDS had for Banif! Meanwhile, the Bank has been losing value. And now, here comes the right to raise the flag of the New Bank, as if the costs of the New Bank would not fall on taxpayers and the New Bank was not needing capital!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u27	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u28	It is right to point out the problems to supervisory, as if the Governor of the Banco de Portugal had not been renewed by the PSD / CDS-PP government, after all that happened at BES. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Now, can you come up with the supervisory argument? Oh, my God! There's only problems in the supervision because the gentlemen. Members have lost the government and now they cannot have the alternative solution. Therefore, Mr Minister, I think that this assessment is necessary and there is no committee of inquiry accepted by the right, nor any intention accepted by the right, which removes the responsibilities that you have had in this process. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u29	Not yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u30	To answer this first set of questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u31	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, the proposals on the table were exactly four, according to Banif communiqué. of these four proposals, a non-binding era and only two met the selling criteria that were stipulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u32	Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u33	The Banco Santander and the Banco Popular. The negotiation was conducted by the resolution authority and Santander's proposal was considered the best proposal between the two, better in the sense of those criteria that we had already established here and which had to do with safeguarding the stability of the financial system and protecting taxpayers' money. The decision we are bringing here today is a difficult, difficult decision for the result, for the financial impact and for the conditions under which it has to be made. Selling a bank, in the context of resolution, within 24 hours, Mr, is not an easy task. It is not an easy task for the Resolution Fund to be under very high financial stress at the moment, as it was used in previous processes. As you know, legislation has changed, from 2014 to today, and the conditions of use of the Resolution Fund are very different since that time. Mr Miguel Tiago, there will be a parliamentary committee of inquiry to manage the Banif case. I can assure you that the government will cooperate with this committee in whatever it is asked for, but at the moment we must concentrate on this decision. You know, because it was discussed yesterday in the parliamentary committee, that the General Deposit Box solution was the preferred one for this government, but in the time we had to negotiate it it it was not possible to implement it. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, regarding the reference she makes and also answering the question about the jobs, I must say that 1000 workers transit to the orbit of Santander, and therefore will remain in Santander, and that the remaining workers of Banif, at the date of the resolution, are placed on the vehicle. in this sense, the maintenance of jobs is guaranteed in this transition. Banif's loss of value began long ago and had a very strong trajectory over the past few years. Banif's stock capital fell by 97 % from the time of the State's injection of capital until the date of the takeover of that government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u34	To request clarification, Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u35	Mr President, Minister for Finance, we are here to decide on the amendment to the State budget that the Government is obliged to make in order to rectify the previous government's inaction and to accommodate the Banif operation as an alternative to the total liquidation of the Bank and other solutions that would not have legal coverage or within the framework of the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u36	To resolve this issue, the former Government and supervision had a long time. The Banif file emerged, however, before the current government, with an unusual urgency, with a bank under investigation from the European Union, in a fragile framework and within the time limit. It is difficult to understand that problems such as Banif survive the implementation of the troika programme, which had as one of the main axes the stabilization of the financial sector, thereby compromising the former Government, Banco de Portugal and the European Commission itself. How can all of them not be guilty? The unemployed country and the insured budget they spoke are in sight. The reality shows us that it submerged what would inevitably come to the surface, but as the PSD and the CDS wanted, only after the elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have never lacked knowledge and warnings for this case, at least since the recapitalisation operation, and from there, the Ministry of Finance and Banco de Portugal have continued to live with failures and impasses, notably successive plans for restructuring failed and rejected. It is therefore important for a parliamentary inquiry committee to know, at the same time, how at other times the State has assumed special responsibilities through the aid granted, what has been done and should not have been done and what has not been done and should have been done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After the elections, the previous government did indeed withdraw from the negotiation, causing perplexity to European negotiators, remaining in contact with the Bank and the European Commission in the Banco de Portugal. We have come to an old problem, in continuous deterioration and within the deadline, narrowing the margin of solution and the negotiating capacity of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because of this, public debt again rises and we face an auspicious financial burden. It is another tax on the incompetence of the PSD and CDS that the Portuguese will pay. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u37	The hidden and submerged costs are now inevitably assumed, and we are left with the effort of trying to reduce them. The remaining alternative, unfeasible the recapitalization and integration into the General Deposit Box, which should have been tested in 2012 / 2013, having then been good chances of being accepted,... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] ... was that of the resolution accompanied by the immediate sale or total, fat settlement which had also been the voluntary sale. It was chosen, and well, for the first time. The total liquidation that will happen, if this budgetary change is not approved, would, among other aspects, be more expensive for the State and taxpayers, result in the total loss of thousands of direct and indirect jobs, a recessive aggression to the business economies of the Azores and Madeira, a reflection of the remittances of migrants or, for example, the zero reduction of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which would generate almost panic in depositors in all banks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u39	in the model adopted, some 1500 jobs are taken care of immediately; the rights of depositors are guarded, protecting, contrary to what the CDS wanted, savings of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises,... [[False! False!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u40	... of families and emigrants, who have entrusted them with this modality; the active role in the financing of the Azores and Madeira economy is ensured; and there is, as far as possible, a sign of confidence in the system, which is relevant to future cases. We therefore support the option taken. In short, we did what was best left to do, since the previous government did not do what it should, in the way and in the time it was due. Take on all your responsibilities now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question, Minister, is this: how can we avoid these situations better in the future? in the understanding of the PS, so cannot be, so cannot continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u41	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u42	Mr President, Minister for Finance, was announced in the Prime Minister's statement that there would be a guarantee of the maintenance of jobs in Banif, especially within the autonomous regions, and of the Bank's level of activity. However, after the clarifications provided yesterday by the Minister in the Commission, we have come to the conclusion that there is no guarantee. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u43	The Minister referred only to the guarantees that are present in the labour law—and that was also what was lacking if this legislation were to be repealed and an offshore was created here under labour law in favour of Santander! However, unemployment in Madeira is high ; the economies of the regions are fragile ; Madeira, in particular, has been affected by the national and regional adjustment programme in a double austerity ; and jobs in the banking sector are quality jobs, so they are still important for these regions. This guarantee could only be given, or if the State had a participation of Santander, which is not the case, or if Banif remained in the public sphere. And it was stated that the latter was the preference of the government. So I ask: where did you take your preference, knowing that in other matters European rules have been repealed in favour of some States? With what insistence did you defend the public interest, the national interest, before the European institutions? I would also like to ask whether the European authorities have been able to maintain Banif's activity only as a public bank, an activity confined to the Autonomous Regions. Has this hypothesis been put? And with what emphasis has it been placed, in the defence of the public interest and the specific interest of the two Autonomous Regions that have these fragile economies? There is a great overlap between agency networks, so it is to be expected that an approximate number of 20 balconies, which is the current Santander network, will be discarded in the short or medium term because the two networks overlap and, in a strictly lucrative business perspective, it makes no sense to maintain the current structure. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u44	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u45	Mr President, Mr César, the Government's reading in response to the inaction, at the end of the adjustment programme and the intervention in the financial sector, is very in line with what the honourable Member presented here. This Government has already announced in this House that it will shortly present a proposal for an amendment to the supervisory and bank resolution architecture. In any case, I can say that it is this government's purpose not to use any more public money in solving banking problems in Portugal. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] With regard to the question of employment, referred to by the Member of the Left Block, the guarantees we have on jobs are the same as Santander, the Bank involved in the purchase, has already given and has already been transmitted to the authorities of the Azores and Madeira. There will be 1000 workers in the orbit of Santander and the other 600 Banif workers will remain in the asset management vehicle that is in the orbit of the Resolution Fund. Negotiation with Europe was the negotiation that took place...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u46	Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u47	I will finish now, Mr President. As I said, negotiation with Europe was the negotiation that took place in this very short period of time that we all know. All deadlines for negotiation with the European authorities have been exhausted. The proposal and the proposal to circumscribe Banif to the islands were part of the proposal of the European Commission, the Directorate-General for Competition, which was rejected by the XIX Constitutional Government. Exemptions of existing legislation had already been made, derogations of those which had not been duly used by the previous Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u48	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u49	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the first corrective budget of the Socialist Party Government. We discussed the VV proposal. Ex., of solution to this problem. in the CDS we are opposed, it is up to us to examine this proposal and we are not convinced of the solutions contained in it. But before the concrete question, let us raise a political issue. the first problem, the majority disappeared. And this was supposed to be stable and consistent, and in this case there is no question of being lasting, because there is not enough time to be able to assess this premise.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u50	That was last week's speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u51	Mr Prime Minister knows that his 'partners' will be in all the photographs of the good news, even if they demand that they be different photographs, but they will never be available to solve the country's serious problems. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is exactly the opposite of what you all said to the country less than a month ago. But let's essentially go to the responsibility of the previous government: three years without solution, eight projects of lead restructuring. And let us address the questions as they are: the merit of all these proposals and of all this time will be achieved in the committee of inquiry with all the necessary scrutiny, but political evaluation can be done already. The fact that the process has been conducted in this way has prevented the European Commission's solution from being successful. The solution advocated by the European Commission was the liquidation of the Bank,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...that is, all depositors would lose everything and 1600 workers would be fired. We may not have had another solution in three years, but we had a solution sufficient to protect 1600 jobs and deposits of all depositors. [[CDS-PP applause.]] In left language, which we have heard so many times here, what we have done was indeed "knocking" Europe over these three years. [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] What is being asked at this time is what the Portuguese are asking at this time: with so much conformity, with so much inability to generate a different solution, where is the government that was going to "knock up" Europe, but which, in 15 days, finally, complied with what Europe imposed on it? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We will then take responsibility for the current government. To decide now, contrary to what the Government says, does not result from any decision by the previous Government. Having to decide now is the result of something that has already happened with this government in office. To decide now results in a leak of information that has already happened with this government in office. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] To decide now is the result of the information leak that has already happened with this government in office. In 15 days, after that information leak, Banif lost more than EUR 1000 million in deposits.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u52	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u53	And it was because he lost more than EUR 1000 million in deposits that lost his counterpart status. And that is why a situation had to be resolved now that, if it weren't for that leak of information, it didn't have to be solved now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u54	What did you need the recapitalization for? Was it because he was full of money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u55	And about that, what did the current government do? If the information leak is so serious, if the information leak has already happened this government was in office, then what did the government do? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] He told us yesterday, Mr Finance Minister, in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, that processes will take place, or not, depending on future decisions. Mr. Finance Minister, that is unacceptable! That's unacceptable! You cannot, in a situation like this, with the responsibility of a Minister of Finance, say that you will run proceedings, whether or not, depending on future decisions. They have to run trials, they have to be responsible and there must be consequences! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] What happened in the last 15 days caused a decision to be taken, made the price of a bank become complicated. It is good to have this notion: what Banif is worth today is much less than what Banif was worth before the leak. [[PS laughter.]] Someone has won with that—and that is also relevant in a market economy. It is also important that this responsibility be met. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And there is something even more important: the Portuguese taxpayers certainly lost. With so much responsibility on those who rushed the decision, those who embarrassed the price of the Bank and those who won with this embarrassment, and with the taxpayers who were lost, where is the government to demand responsibilities and take consequences for so many issues with this gravity? Let's also compare political options. Either the PSD and CDS governments or the governments of the Socialist Party have already been called upon to resolve these situations with banks, with a common trait: the Socialist Party, either in the past with BPN or now with Banif, has used the same solution; the PSD and CDS, when they were in government, have used a different solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u57	The PS, either in BPN or Banif, called first to respond to the taxpayers ; the PSD and the CDS, when they had to resolve the BES situation, called to respond first to the financial system. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is a difference of political choice that draws a line that distinguishes in much that which is the socialist solution from that which was the solution of the PSD and the CDS. It is therefore up to us to draw conclusions. Firstly, this decision did not have to be taken now, unless there was, as it was, the information leak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u58	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u59	Secondly, the liquidation was certainly not a better solution than the resolution said yesterday by a Member of the Socialist Party, even if it was a bad solution to which the Socialist Party brings us here. But it was possible that this bad solution that the Socialist Party here brings us would be better. The resolution could better protect taxpayers. And people do not understand why this solution is possible to ask taxpayers EUR 1700 million and the financial system only EUR 490 million. People do not understand and have the right not to understand. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] We know, and we have a duty to inform people, that it was enough for us to let the end of the year run so that on 1 January European rules would enter into force which would require this solution to be different in the distribution of responsibility between taxpayers and financial institutions, passing much more responsibility on to financial institutions than that which this government has passed to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u60	To get into liquidation now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u62	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u63	I will finish, Mr. President. After BPN, past the BPP, passed the BES and now passing Banif, without the supervision had improved enough to avoid these situations, without the justice had been so swift that people could realize that crimes have effectively consequences,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u64	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u65	... without the Socialist Party having changed its political solution to the problem, can we ask taxpayers again to pay, firstly, damage to these? It is not acceptable to ask taxpayers this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u66	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u67	That is why this proposal, which is not well explained and is not well done, can only have our vote against it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u68	Mr Galamba has signed up to ask for clarification, but Mr João Pinho de Almeida has no time to answer. Even though Mr. João Galamba would like to ask for clarification, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u69	Mr President, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, his speech is an ode to the stripper, as I have rarely heard in this Parliament. [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] But we knew one thing: it finally returned the playful CDS and without a hint of respect for the Portuguese! Why this speech, Your Honor? [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I didn't know if I should laugh or cry, but I confess I laughed a little bit.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u70	It hurts, it hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u71	The honourable Member has come here to say that this is the Socialist Party's budget. No, sir! This is not the Socialist Party's Budget, this is the Budget that corrects the inaction of the Portuguese right and, in a sense, unfortunately, is the last corrective budget of your Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The honourable Member has come here to say that it was a step-step on the TVI that caused the problem! Is that what you're talking about? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u72	Is it EUR 1000 million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u73	Did you not hear Mr Finance Minister say here that since you injected money into a bankrupt bank, hiding that information from the Portuguese and the Portuguese Parliament, until the takeover of this government, Banif has devalued 97 %? Oh, my God! Repeat: 97%! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The honourable Member has also come here to try to say that basically all the Portuguese governments have faced intransigent European institutions that have always wanted the Bank to settle. That is not true, Mr Member, because, as Mr Finance Minister said here, and as a letter states, I hope that the CDS will know — it will certainly — the European Commissioner in 2014 did not talk about the Bank's liquidation but that the Bank should be confined to the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Now, honourable Member, the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira are still Portugal and a bank operating there is not liquidated, it is in full operation! [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] The honourable Member also said a wonderful phrase: « It was not to be resolved now». It was to do what you did for three years and not solve today. And by now, I suspect it was never to solve and see if the thing was going to work out alone. No, sir! We couldn't wait for January 1st.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u74	We could, we could!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u75	If it weren't for the footnote!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u76	We couldn't, no, sir. As was widely explained by the Minister of Finance yesterday in the Commission and today again, the Bank had settlement orders for this Monday. I repeat: liquidation, Member of the Commission! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You cannot have the cake and at the same time want to eat it. So if you didn't want the liquidation, you had to intervene now, you had no choice! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You have no more time to answer, but I would like to ask you a question, perhaps your former coalition partner can give you one minute. He suggested yesterday that the best thing was to go to deposits above €100,000 and therefore cause enormous damage to the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, to the savings of migrants, which you did not have in the BES. The CDS, in the European Parliament, through Mr Nuno Melo, whose intervention I am going to distribute, and regarding an intervention in deposits of Russian millionaires in a tax haven in Cyprus that went beyond 100 000 €, said : « Considering the contours of the rescue in Cyprus, namely the extraordinary tax applied to bank deposits, which resulted in a huge breach of confidence in the banking sector. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u78	« I ask the Commission: how does the breakdown of trust among not only banks but also citizens? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u79	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u80	« Aren’t you afraid that if citizens consider that they no longer have their deposits secured and resort to mass surveys, if they see a widespread bankruptcy of banks? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u81	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u82	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u83	Are you worried about Russian millionaires in a tax haven? Oh, my God! So, the Azores and Madeira? Oh, my God! And Portuguese immigrants are no longer interested in CDS-PP? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the PS and some BE Members.]] Its intervention and this duality, in fact, says everything about the former party defender of the taxpayer, the former party defender of the fisherman and, now, we know, the party defender of the Russian millionaire, but which does not think much about the Azores and Madeira! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u84	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This plenary meeting was not planned and therefore it is important to know why we are here today discussing a amending budget. The answer is only one: we are here today because the previous PSD/CDS government has been doing months, if not years, hiding and putting up a problem, because the bad state in which Banif has been known to the previous PSD/CDS government. This is confirmed by the correspondence exchange that took place more than one year ago in December 2014 between the European Union and the Portuguese Government, where attention was also drawn not only to Banif's fragility but also to the need for rapid action. Despite this, the PSD/CDS government has let go. It should also be remembered that Banif entered into breach with the Portuguese State on January 1 of this year. And despite this failure, the PSD/CDS Government has done nothing to ensure that Banif assumes its obligations to the Portuguese State. Worse than this was the previous government, so often confronted with the question of Banif in this plenary, that he was unable to take over the problem and have preferred to ignore it, but even hide it. Now, Mr. João Almeida, we will pay the irresponsibility of the PSD / CDS government, which, after injecting EUR 1100 million into Banif, did not make any effort to ensure the success of the various restructuring plans presented by Banif and which were to be rejected by the European Commission. And today, we are faced with the following situation: giving Santander what was good in Banif required public support of EUR 2255 million. I mean, the state had to pay to sell. And having to pay to sell is a strange fact, because normally those who sell don't pay, those who sell get. But here, not here the state, to sell, had to pay, and it wasn't so little: 1000 € to each family—this is what the business will cost the Portuguese. Nevertheless, we wanted to underline the solemnity with which the current government has sought to respond — good or bad — to this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] This government has sought to respond in a few weeks to what you have not done for years!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u86	It's going to tears!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u87	Finally, I would like to say the following: Mr Pedro Passos Coelho admitted yesterday that he would not have a very different solution than the solution found by the current government. However, this statement shows that, in fact, from a formal point of view, this Reformary Budget is presented by the Socialist Party, but in its substance is a Reformary Budget of the previous Government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, Mr. João Almeida, this corrective budget is more the last corrective budget of the previous PSD/CDS government than the first corrective budget of the current government. They're facts! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u88	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u89	Mrs. Members, as there are no entries from the PSD and the PCP, I ask Mr André Silva, who asked for the Bureau, and was authorized to intervene lastly, since he has only one minute, if he intends to use the word now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u90	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u91	You have the floor, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u92	Good morning, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. in recent years, the billions of public funds spent on bank bailouts are approximately the two-year activity of the National Health Service. two years of medical acts for all Portuguese who have become mere bank inequalities in the eyes of political decision makers have disappeared at an accounting apex. More importantly, it is important to clarify fully the reason why taxpayers continue to be called to pay for errors that they have not made. Mistake is human, repeat the error by system or is negligence or fraud. If the blame continues to die single, we can even save the financial system, but taxpayers, as citizens, will go further and further away from the system and discredited, and those at risk are the democratic regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u93	Thank you very much, Mr André Silva, for the precision of your time. Mr António Leitão Amaro has now spoken for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government in office today presents us with a proposal for a corrective budget to apply up to EUR 3000 million of taxpayers in Banif and Santander. For the PSD, it is noted that this debate cannot turn into a step-by-step. We do not want to use this debate and this case, as the Prime Minister said at times, as a political weapon. We are deeply committed to achieving all the responsibilities of all actors and authorities, including the administrations of Banif, Banco de Portugal and governments, all governments. This clearance of responsibility, the identification of what went wrong is very important, because the Portuguese are once again being called to pay a very high bill, which, I think, nobody desired, and have the right to know what happened, as happened, as each has fulfilled its responsibilities, what went wrong in the rules, in the control and supervision systems, in the management and choices each has made. We therefore want this discharge of responsibilities to be done in a committee of inquiry, which, we hope, can, as in the past, be created and operated with its rules and with a purpose defined in consensus by the parliamentary groups. We want this parliamentary inquiry to be, like the previous one of the BES case, an example that Parliament works well, that works above party differences and that it brings answers to it, more than legitimately, great concern that the Portuguese today live and feel. Today's discussion, which obviously does not replace this discharge of responsibilities, is on the Government's proposal to apply EUR 3000 million of Portuguese money in Banif and Santander. And that is why we have to discuss today, in view of this proposal from the Government, why this solution. Was it possible to make an alternative? Why is this enormous value and not less? Why this sale to Santander under these conditions? Why is this great benefit to the Bank and a sacrifice size for taxpayers? Mrs. Members of the Government, I know that yesterday and today they have tried to avoid answering several questions about the choices and choices they have made and have led to the elaboration of this proposal for implementation up to EUR 3000 million. But that is not why we are going to leave the seats and it was important that, even in the debate in the specialty, they could answer. Firstly, was there an alternative, real and possible, to the resolution? Do you confirm or not that, despite several plans submitted, even though operational restructuring has been carried out this year, changes in the information system, did the European Commission refuse any restructuring because it considers the Bank to be inviable? Do you confirm or not that the voluntary sale of the Bank, tempted two years ago, with a formal process launched in summer, was it condemned not to be carried out without public aid? They confirm or not that no one wanted to buy without public aid and therefore the voluntary sale process, completed by VV. For example, did you not have a favorable and acceptable answer, because the European Commission did not accept that it was not through sale to a large bank and without public funds? The Minister came, yesterday, to speak of another possible alternative, and the PS again spoke of it: the integration into the Box. Let me, however, tell you that this is an unlikely one, let me call it a "strengthening hypothesis", which is used only to distract.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u95	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u96	And I explain why. The European rules — and the Minister has confirmed that they do not allow them. The European Commission has always said that this was not possible. Mr. Secretary of State said more: that the cost of this solution was equal to the cost now applied. The Minister then said to the many before that that that should have been done with the Assistance Programme. Mr Minister, for some reason the Socialist Party, at that time, did not say so. First of all, because it was adding one hole to another hole and waiting for a miracle that did not give in a larger hole. But as important as that, Mr Minister, was the Government of the Socialist Party, when they fired, they signed a role that prevented this operation. Point 2.5. The Memorandum of Understanding said that the Box had to reduce size, it had to be streamlined, it had to sell non-core operations. That is, the Box had to decrease, the Box could not increase with Banif integration.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u97	And who signed this Memorandum?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u98	That is why this has never been proposed, neither now nor before, and you know that. Mr Prime Minister and Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to ask them how they chose to do this operation, because liquidation was not an alternative for us. Question: can a government choose the moment, the timing of the resolution or is it the Banco de Portugal that chooses, is it the only one who decides, and can only do it when the bank is insolvent? And that only happened last week, and because of the words of the Minister, of the enormous and worrying race to the deposits that happened last week. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u99	It's the footnote!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u100	Mrs. Members of the Government, is it true that only this weekend have these assumptions been checked? Is it true or not that the European Commission, in addition to rejecting Banif's restructuring, refused new public aid other than with resolution? The question now remains: why are these values and the terms that this Government and the Banco de Portugal have decided to put EUR 3000 million of taxpayers and sell them to Santander?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u101	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u102	Mr Minister, you have not been able to answer or inform each of the limits that this budget proposal is increasing or not exhausted, but above all no one has noticed why a bank with assets of EUR 12 billion imposes losses on taxpayers of EUR 38 billion. in BES, with a similar injection, the assets were five or six times higher.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u104	Mr President, I will now conclude if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u105	If I finish, I don't care. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u106	It is also worrying to see how your Government agrees and accepts with the European Commission losses of two thirds of the assets, when the market would only give a discount that would not be one third.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u107	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u108	What negotiation was this of a government, of a Prime Minister who said he was beating Europe and accepting a loss...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u109	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish. In fact, it has been said from the beginning that there would be enormous rigidity at this stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u110	I will finish, Mr. President. Allow me two more points. This negotiation went wrong, but it also went wrong to negotiate with Santander, which does not guarantee workers, does not guarantee counters, pays only EUR 150 million per asset. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u111	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, Mr Minister, we are not satisfied with the answers you gave on the distribution of the effort and the fact that the bank and the creditors have not been called,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u114	...getting everything for the taxpayer, when we decided that the effort was in the bank and not in the taxpayers. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u115	From the outset, it has been said that the flexibility to exceed two minutes for each request for clarification would not be the same at the end of the discussion. I'm sorry that some of you are. Members have not understood that message. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We said it was a crime, and we repeated it. What happened in Banif was conscious disillusionment, was deliberate failure of the State's duties and was speculation with taxpayers' money to pay the « clean output » of PSD and CDS. We are aware that integration into the General Deposit Box was difficult, but we are also sure that it was legal, feasible and the best way. There would be other solutions, of course, and we showed willingness to work them. The proposed solution now loses too much money, condemns dismissal, strengthens concentration, wastes public resources and benefits the offender. We have presented two fundamental guarantees to the Government. Firstly, a framework banking intervention law which places decisions in the sphere of government to protect the interests of the country and the taxpayers. Secondly, a way to avoid new crises, starting with the New Bank : we do not want the sale of the New Bank. We have not, nor have we, these guarantees; however, let us insist on and reaffirm the urgency of these measures. Without them we will have more risks in 2016. We all know that the bank is a bad card castle. We believe that these guarantees are crucial to the credibility of democracy and to solve a problem that is systemic and that has not happened nor will end today. So, for us, the most important thing right now is also to discuss how new banking crises can be avoided in the future. The Left Block has presented two forms and two proposals which, we believe, are essential to solve this problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u117	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate confirms what the PSD and CDS tactics are to address this issue, seeking to make the problem all that has happened in the last few weeks and not what has led to this situation for three years. The problem is EUR 1 billion in deposits, not EUR 1100 million with which the previous government has committed the state and public money in a recapitalisation process. The problem is the leak of deposits, it is not the need for recapitalisation of Banif in 2013, which you did not question, burying the state and burying public money. [[PSD protests.]] They say the PSD and the CDS that the problem is the decision now made and not the decision to compromise the state that leads to now, in this situation, the limitations are imposed as they are. They say the PSD and the CDS that the problem is the decision taken in three weeks and not the three years of complete incuria, deresponsibility and swirling to the side, despite all the clarification requirements that were made in the Assembly of the Republic to the former PSD / CDS government. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the PSD and CDS returning to submarine tactics. They make decisions on behalf of the Portuguese, they negotiate with taxpayers' money, and whoever comes back who pays the bill and entertains to investigate the straw tails that remain behind the decisions made. [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, on the PCP side, do not have any clemency in the demands of the responsibilities that they will have to assume and which will have to be seized from you, with all the consequences that must be removed from there. From January 4, 2013 to the debate that finally closed the PSD / CDS coalition, the PCP brought to this Assembly of the Republic almost a dozen times the Banif problem, questioning the parties that supported the government and questioning the government itself on this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u119	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u120	In 15-year debates, political statements and other forms of intervention, we have brought this issue almost 10 times since January 4, 2013. And on January 4, 2013, Mr. Paulo Sá, in a political statement, said the following, and I quote: « (...) The government injects EUR 1100 million in Banif, paying tribute to the state in the largest shareholder, but private shareholders continue to have control of the bank. Moreover, the guarantees submitted by the bank are at high risk assets, so we run the risk of being in front of a new BPN! Do not keep on seeking. ” in another political statement made on 7 June 2013 it was said: « Obviously, we are already seeing the end of this ‘film’ : it will be another nationalised bank with the losses to be assumed by the State budget, as happened with BPN, and then be retrivitated with the ‘cleaned meat’, ‘fats’ which will be assumed by the State with losses to taxpayers, with damage to taxes and with damage to State intervention capacity. Do not keep on seeking. ” We, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CFP, we have no guessing skills, but we realized that the concealment that the PSD and CDS government made of the real situation of the Bank and the responsibilities that the State has assumed could only lead to the situation we are facing today. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] The decisions and responsibilities of the former PSD/CDS government are now clear: they recapitalized the Bank without asking for responsibilities to whom it has for years added the profits that this Bank has given; they recapitalized the Bank and hid the situation for three years, because they already knew that the Bank was unable to sacrifice the State for the injection of the 1100 million that it had made; they dragged the process not to stain their hands with one more decision; and they sacrificed the national interest and the contributors to your electoral strategy to avoid harming the outcome of the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u121	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, we are faced with another circumstance: it is confirmed that the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal was made by the PSD/CDS Government in the hope that, until the end of his mandate and shielded in his immutability, he could give cover to all that you have done for three years and to your responsibilities in that process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u123	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u124	In conclusion, Mr President, I just want to say the following: the CFP cannot follow the solution put here, and we have already said why yesterday. [[Ahh!]] [[Ahh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u125	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u126	We cannot follow this solution because, unlike the PSD and the CDS, we have never accompanied solutions that sacrifice taxpayers to cover banks holes, we have never accompanied solutions that sacrifice workers to cover bank failures.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u127	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u128	We continue to say that the solution must be attempted by integrating Banif into the public banking system, thus safeguarding the interests of depositors, workers and the country, placing the bank at the service of the country, with its public control. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Member José Manuel Pureza applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u129	We therefore conclude the stage of the debate itself. For half an hour, until 11 a.m. and 45 minutes, we will make an interval, which will be used by the parliamentary groups as they understand. The PSD Parliamentary Group has required this interval to be able to hold a meeting of the PSD Group. However, if there are changes in the specialty, the Bureau will accept-CL, making them depend on their discussion of the vote, in general, on the proposed law, as is obvious. The session is interrupted. [[It was 11 hours and 16 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 12 hours and 8 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are resumed work at this time because the PSD Parliamentary Group Office has requested more than 15 minutes, beyond 30 minutes. So let's get back to work. I ask the services to activate the electronic system so that we can record the presences. Clearly, we have to vote on the bill, first and foremost, and only then, according to the result, will we open the debate in the specialty. In the meantime, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Pedro Alves to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members gave the Bureau the following legislative initiatives: drafts of lein. 83 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Ensures the freeness of the basic account ( BE ), 84 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Reversion of the Hospital de S. Paulo, in Serpa, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ) and 85 / XIII ( 1. a ) — Reversion of the Hospital Conde S. Bento, in Santo Tirso, to the Ministry of Health ( PCP ) ; and draft resolutions No 54 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Statute of the Republican National Guard ( BE ), 55 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Restoration of deleted holidays ( BE ), 56 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Rationalization of contracts of association with private education, ensuring the protection of public school ( BE) and 57 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent initiatives for the defence and sustainability of the national dairy sector following the end of the dairy quota scheme in the European Union ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u131	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. As you know, the touch screen is used, but if it does not work, they have, as an alternative, the mouse on the keyboard. [[Pause.]] I wonder if all the gentlemen. Members were able to register. [[Pause.]] If no one asks for the word, it's because everyone was able to register. This is the first time that the system works at 100 %. It must be Christmas! [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic table records 225 presences, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We shall generally vote on Bill No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 82 - B / 2014 of 31 December ( State budget for 2015 ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS and of the Members of the PSD Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u132	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u133	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u134	Mr President, it is to announce that the Members elected by Madeira's electoral circle will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u135	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us proceed to the discussion, in the speciality, of Bill No. 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), each five-minute match is available. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u136	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: In 2011, after six and a half years of Socialist Party governance, our financial system was particularly vulnerable. It was for that reason that the Government of the Socialist Party had negotiated and signed with the troika loans worth EUR 78 billion, of which EUR 12 billion was dedicated precisely to the capitalisation of the financial system. On the other hand, at that time the government of then also had in hand the BPN selling process, something that happened in about a month. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, governments may complain about having problems, but their function is to solve problems. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u137	That is an act of contrition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u138	In 2011 and the following years, the PSD and CDS-PP government solved several problems in the financial system: it contributed to its stabilization, capitalisation and financing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u139	He's alive!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u140	The passing-by show and the unfounded and unjustified complaint of the Minister of Finance yesterday and today, in Parliament, and also the position of the parties that support Parliament, to which an unheard of leaking information of grave consequences, denote the evil, impreparation and lack of sense of state of this new parliamentary majority. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] When this government slips away with reality, it shoots everywhere and has no courage to take on its responsibilities. This corrective budget is of the Socialist Party and is of this Government, it incorporates the decisions of this Government. If the Government believes in its decision, that means, moreover, that the Socialist Party would have agreed with an identical solution if it had been taken by the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u141	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u142	...but, perhaps, that would have meant, if we had taken it ourselves, we had not explored more favourable solutions. However, there is one thing that has to be clear: for us, PSD, this solution never, ever could be the integration « to BPN » of Banif in the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u144	...because, for us, the General Deposit Box cannot be the trash bin of the Portuguese financial system. [[PSD applause.]] Those who here have criticized and criticized Banif's capitalisation in 2013, these also have to tell the country that if this capitalisation had not existed, what had happened was the bank's liquidation, with all the consequences that they now want to avoid. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at issue here today is indeed a decision taken by this Government. We have put many doubts to the government, these doubts that have not been dispelled. The answers were very vague and often ambiguous. But this government is supported in Parliament by the parties that brought down the previous government. The PCP and the Left Block, since the elections, speak as if they had won them, but the mask falls to them every difficulty and in these days they return to their place of losers and say that nothing has to do with the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u145	the PS and the Prime Minister must ask themselves: where is the government stability promised? Where is the sustainability and consistency of the Government's solution? Where is the commitment you made to the President of the Republic that the parties that support this government ensure the stability of the financial system? Less than a month later you have lost the parliamentary support that you gave life to this government, Prime Minister? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] What consequences do the Socialist Party and the Prime Minister have for the lack of parliamentary support from the parties that support this government? You assume it was a fraud and you don't have that support after all? Are you already announcing a political crisis that will follow? What does this lack of support from the parties that should support the government, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u146	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u147	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u148	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is depressing to force Portugal and the Portuguese to watch and swallow so much political opportunism. We in the PSD make this complaint clear here, but we do not leave the country. We have many doubts about the government's decision, but we recognize that the consequences of the failure to approve this Reformary Budget could result in serious damage to the national interest, the economy and the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u149	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. It's thinking exclusively of the greatest interest of Portuguese families and companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u151	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u152	... and in the financial stability of the country that we will abstain in all the votes of this amending budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u153	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u154	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following: we in the PSD will use all parliamentary instruments to examine this decision, but we also want to demand that the government, in a clear and frontal manner, immediately hand an external and independent audit to determine all the responsibilities of all those involved in this case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u155	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Since 2012 the CFP has alerted the Banif situation, to the EUR 1100 million of public capital involved in its recapitalisation and to the option of the PSD/CDS Government not to take the necessary public control of the Bank that the clearly majority position of the State then permitted and advised. The PSD/CDS Government has neither served nor protected the interests of Banif customers, its workers, nor the economies of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores, nor the thousands of migrants whose savings are deposited with the Bank. The former government has committed the State and public money in Banif without even asking for responsibilities for those who have been making profits on account of mismanagement. The political responsibilities of the PSD/CDS Government are compounded by statements by the Coelho Pass and the Finance Officers, who insisted on an alleged good business for the state's safe deposit boxes. in reality, they were supporting, largely lost, a private and bankrupt bank, hiding the reality with the active complicity of Banco de Portugal. Perhaps that is why they have made so much effort for the renewal of the same Governor who said that the loan to Banif would yield 10 % interest in favour of the State. Of course no one else was named because he could discover the hole! In parallel with the PSD/CDS government operations, this process has exposed the inexhaustible incompatibility between the defence of the national interest and the rules and taxes of the European Union by preventing Banif's integration into the banking public system and by forcing the capitalist concentration, impediments that the government is making, but the CFP does not. We are facing a real economic crime, whose moral author is the PSD Government / CDS ; it remains to be known with what coverage by the President of the Republic, Cavaco Silva. Economic crime against the country now referring to the use of public resources to save deposits that have been opened up in a context where this fraud could have been prevented if the government then had assumed its dominant position in Banif's capital. In the old way of fascism, PSD and CDS put public money in a private company, not to control the company but to control public money.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is increasingly clear that banking regulation and supervision only serve to fuel illusions of seemingly independent public intervention that disciplines ambitions and financial speculation of large monopolistic capital and capital. The Banco de Portugal is only the certificate of quality in a product that has been heavily damaged and supervision is a bad scene, the ticket of which has already reached EUR 20 billion since 2008. The PCP does not agree to save private banks with Portuguese money and this outcome is even more unacceptable when the billions of euros will serve, essentially, to ensure the transfer of the best assets and the Bank's business portfolio to a private and foreign financial group, the Santander Group, when it would be in the interests of the country, workers and depositors that these assets and this business were integrated into the public banking system. The situation that is created in Banif confirms the need for public control of the bank that the CFP has been demanding for years and, once again, it is evident to whom it serves and to whom it does not serve the private management of the bank. The stability of the financial system is too important for it to be dependent on the edge of large private shareholders. The situation shows that effective public control of the bank is absolutely necessary, not only because of this process, but also because of the general instability that does not allow it to be left out now that this is just another episode of a crisis manifest in the banking system. Not being the public control itself, the solution of all the problems of the bank, it is now more evident than ever that only this public control allows the necessary solutions to be initiated. The CFP also draws attention to the fact that Banif's situation, as had already occurred with BES, is another element that demonstrates the propaganda fraud that has meant the announced 'clean output' and the true content of the action of the PSD/CDS government and the troika. It is also another element that proves that PSD and CDS were at the service of the money masters: they asked to condition the options, tried to sell the TAP out of time and did everything to get Banif to be delivered to Santander, for lack of other options. With their options, PSD and CDS severely limited those of whom they followed. The vote against the CFP is a vote against the policy that saves banks while sacrificing people. It is a vote against the European Union, which is contrary to the interests of the Portuguese. It is a vote against the privileges of the bankers, who use and divert people's money and call on the State to pay their crimes, while they move freely around the country in luxury lives. It is a vote against the option of cutting wages, pensions, people's security, justice, culture, education, health, to pay bankers' adventures. The financial system must be at the service of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u159	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u160	To do this, people have to control the financial system. Only the bank in the hands of the people does not steal the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u161	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think we all realize that this double-carried death, with half-piruette and air output, that the CDS here presented us is part of a funeral ritual of the right coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u163	You guys are so funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u164	She's obsessed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u165	And we wouldn't even be surprised at this game of valley everything, if Mr. João Pinho de Almeida came here to say to us: "But we were in government? Oh, my God! Who was the Deputy Prime Minister? Oh, my God! We didn't know the Deputy Prime Minister! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We would not be surprised if this happened in the short term. We understand the difficult situation: the PSD wants to be a center-right party again, or to recover its electorate, which has lost with liberal radicalization in recent years, and, if possible, nobody wants to remember that Banif's administration was a kind of banking holiday colony for PSD-Madeira leaders throughout the period, up to the need for public capital injection. The CDS, on the other hand, needs to be once again the party of the taxpayer, wants to be the party that throws itself with violence and strutting governors of the Banco de Portugal, to never move a straw into the law which, in fact, regulates the banks that then go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u166	And what's bothering the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't let yourself be convinced, don't let yourself be fooled or deceived by your wishes. It is that the CDS cannot spend its life sticking to the PSD to be part of the government and two weeks later pretending it was never there. We've seen this film before, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We've seen this CDS movie!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u168	Don't worry. The honourable Member is very concerned!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u169	But let us start with the arguments put forward here, particularly by the supervisory argument. To this committee of inquiry on which you are a Member of the European Parliament. Members came here to say that it was very praised, impartially, with very important conclusions for the country, that committee of inquiry came to the conclusion that the Banco de Portugal had made very serious failures in the « BES case ». And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if Banif's fault is also with Banco de Portugal, then they will have to explain to the country why they kept Carlos Costa in front of Banco de Portugal and did not change any rules of the banking system. [[Greetings from BE and P.S. Member of Ascension Simões.]] It's your responsibility! Supervision failed, because they could have changed and they didn't! But let us turn to this concern for taxpayers. The CDS now appears in a rather surprising position, saying that the best, better, would have been imputing losses to all creditors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u170	She's obsessed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u171	... including depositors over €100,000, small businesses and migrants.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u172	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u173	We all realize that they only say it, because they can't do it, because if they could, they wouldn't. They either let Brussels take the case into account, while they were victims in the government position — 'it was Brussels that ordered, we couldn't do anything' — or, then, they didn't. It is that when we look at the « BES case » and the resolution that was taken in the « BES case », the PSD and the CDS in the government not only kept deposits above €100,000, as the senior creditors saved and passed a check of 3900 million of taxpayers'money to save BES. They didn't do in BES what they're defending for Banif now! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u174	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u175	This, sirs. Members, it leads us to the following argument, which is the argument that the PSD and the CDS in the « BES case » have attributed the losses to the financial system and now this government is making taxpayers pay. Mrs. Members, are you aware that the 1100 million injected into Banif by the PSD/CDS government were taxpayers' money? Oh, my God! You know that? Oh, my God! Do you also know, of course, that the 3900 million that were injected into the New Bank were taxpayers' money? Oh, my God! And you know that the bank will never pay them? Oh, my God! Therefore, I am very sorry to inform you, but the PSD and CDS account in cash of taxpayers in the bank, only with these two banks, goes at EUR 5000 million! [[Congratulations from BE.]] They put EUR 5000 million in taxpayers' money in New Bank and Banif! I don't think they have morals to criticize taxpayers' money now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u176	And the Left Block has a moral that's something! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u177	Finally, Mrs. Members, on the responsibilities of three years, compared to the responsibilities of three weeks. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that there was still no TVI news, and everyone was already playing to say that a Banif action didn't pay a kiss! And he didn't pay a kiss, because Banif went down brutally over the last three years when the file was there, quiet, at the Minister of Finance's table. There was only one news on TVI, because there was a problem! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u178	And the problem was created by PSD and CDS! The problem was created by a government that did nothing, over three years, left the deadline running and, when the deadline came to an end, it came to say: "Ah, there was a news from the TVI! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” There would be no TVI news, if the problem had been solved before, which neither the PSD nor the CDS did! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u179	If Block and Left were in opposition, what would Santander say? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u180	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u181	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: the bank has a systemic problem, the bank has a structural and fundamental problem in the way in which it is organized today. The right has ignored this problem and, by ignoring, has created financial instability in the country. It's the responsibility of those who haven't done anything! for our part, we cannot do the same and, therefore, once again, I want to express the availability of the Left Block to work on structural solutions to the bank,... [[P.S. Helena Roseta's deputy's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u182	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u183	... that they pass through renewed powers to the government to intervene in the banking system, to keep the bank in public sphere, so that we never have to put money on taxpayers to save a bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u184	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u185	... that is the model of PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations on BE, PAN and PS Helena Roseta's deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u186	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u187	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A very quick intervention just to tell Mr Luís Montenegro that what was clear here today was not that the PS does not have the support of its left to approve this Budget. Don't! [[PSD laughter.]] What was clear here was that if you were in the government and had to solve this problem, you would not have the support of the CDS and would therefore need the support of other parties. So, ladies and gentlemen. PSD Members, in this we are on a similar'ship'! [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] The second point is: Mr. Luís Montenegro, the Government of the Socialist Party wanted to integrate Banif into the Box, after cleaning up the toxic assets, i.e. want to do what he did with Santander, but so that he would stay in the Box. So, no, the box wasn't trash can! But there is one thing that will not happen to this government either: we will not privatize the Box, as its government and its party wanted to do. This will not happen to the PS, Mr! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u188	Also for an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time of debate in the field, it is good to remember the questions that remain unanswered, and there are many. The first question is about the leak of information that has been devalued here, such as the footnote. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u190	Mr. Members, a footnote will be, but it is a footnote that remains for history, because it meant a race to deposits as few times it has been seen in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u192	... a loss of almost EUR 1000 million, which flew from the Bank in a week, a resolution and a hasty sale from the Bank with its invoice to the taxpayers. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Members, it would perhaps be exaggerating to say that it is the most important footnote in the history of Portugal, but it will certainly be the most expensive in the history of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] And there are two questions she raises. First of all, we did not realize, until today, whether this leak was true or not, because it was said that everything was being prepared for Banif to be integrated into the Box and the Minister of Finance said that that was exactly what he intended to do at that time. Secondly, it is not clear why there is no complaint, why there is no investigation process and why no one wants to know who has potentiated this leak of information. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u193	It does not cease to be extraordinary that today the Left Block, usually so concerned with these issues, seems not to want to know who embarrassed that Bank for someone to buy it and who is currently defending that a larger account is paid by taxpayers to protect larger investors. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] It's very curious, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! They are the new experts in the CDS, but they seem to have forgotten things that were very expensive to them. It's a lot, but it's a lot of fun! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u194	All right! Block's dead and PCP's out!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u195	The second question that remains to be answered is this: it is to explain how much this account would cost on January 2. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of whether or not we like the rules that come into force, because these rules will actually come into force, it is a matter of realizing what it cost now and what it would cost taxpayers on January 2nd and who would pay their account. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And if the rules dislike you so much, it is also important to know what they will do to change them, because perhaps it is also worth meditating on this subject, since the truth is that they will come to power from here a few days. It should also be clarified under what provision the allocation of charges of 1766 million for the public record and 489 for the financial system and the time scope for the acquisition of that standard is made. As it is also worth explaining why this higher cost model was adopted for the taxpayer, unlike other models, namely BES, of lower cost for the taxpayer. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Finally, it remains to be clarified who selected the buyers, who defined the profiles, who ordered the six proposals that the State received, because whoever wants to come here said « had to be like this, there was no alternative», then it is appropriate to explain the other alternatives that have been discarded. But it is also worth clarifying where the government was saying that a new relationship with Europe was needed, to be more interventional, to hit the foot. Well, that government became, after all, a very docile and well disciplined government, the first serious decision it had to face. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would conclude by saying the following: Mr. Prime Minister, if you do not complain about the opposition, the opposition must be scolded. Mr. Prime Minister may be complaining about who he promised would be a majority, like Mr. Prime Minister, and, at first difficulty, he flees, each one to his side, in cases with more noise, in other cases with less noise,... [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] ...but looking for the photograph in which he gets better and quickly unravelling like a castle of cards. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u196	The CDS seems to vote differently!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u197	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : First it was BPN, then it was BES, now it was Banif, and we don't know if we stay here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u199	With the current government you never know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u200	... but the cases they know are sufficient and therefore they should lead us to equalize the need for public control of the bank, because the State cannot continue to inject millions and millions of euros of taxpayers into the bank and then put its head in the sand and not even follow the commercial activity of the entities that benefit from the public money, register, public money to the million. That is also why, in our view, we can discuss and even change the legislative framework of supervision, but no more powers given to supervision will certainly not be sufficient to avoid situations such as BPN, BES and now Banif. There is no supervision that prevents these disasters, because the central problem is not so much in supervision but, yes, where the banking system moves. That is why we believe that it is time to balance the need for public control of the bank, because this would be an excellent contribution to avoiding the successive disasters that we have witnessed and that invariably remain for the taxpayers. in the case of Banif, let us see what is at stake: it is EUR 2105 million, if we withdraw the 150 million Santander paid. But there are still 746 million guarantees given by the government to Santander and to the vehicle that will remain with the real estate assets and, in addition, it is still necessary to add the EUR 825 million of state aid that will be payable. Therefore, it is the EUR 1100 million that the PSD/CDS government injected into Banif in 2013, of which only returned to the state’s EUR 275 million coffers. As a balance sheet for this intervention, Portuguese taxpayers are preparing to pay more than EUR 3500 million. Made the accounts, it is €368 that each Portuguese will have to pay to cover the hole of Banif. A cost that would certainly be lower if the problem had been addressed, if the problem had been taken sooner. If Banif's problem was not taken up earlier, responsibility only has one paternity: the previous government, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u201	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u202	from The Greens, realizing the circumstances and the urgency with which the current government had to face a problem that the previous PSD/CDS government was irresponsibly deferring, as those who wipe the problems under the carpet with the clear purpose of creating the illusion of a « clean output »... because it was exactly what the PSD/CDS government did: it postponed Banif's problem not to disturb the « clean output » of the Assistance Program. And it does not help to say no because this is expressed in the exchange of correspondence between the European Commission and the PSD/CDS government. We were in December 2014, so more than a year ago. In other words, the previous government swept the Banif problem under the carpet to deceive the Portuguese, creating the illusion of such a "clean exit". As I said, realizing the circumstances and urgency of the current government, however, The Greens cannot feed solutions that unfortunately start school and are based on the idea that while banks profit their shareholders divide profits between themselves, no one hears them and, silently, divide the « cake». But when banks damage, the government calls the taxpayers to pay the bill of irresponsibility of the bankers! This is an absolutely cruel injustice and, as we have done in the case of BPN and BES, the Greens do not accept that they have to be taxpayers to pay the irresponsibility of others.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u204	While much remains to be clarified and there is still a lack of responsibilities, the Greens follow the need for the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to the Banif case, which, above all, enables us to clarify the responsibilities and also contribute to preventing the guilt from dying untiringly again. We therefore follow this intention, but we refuse to call back taxpayers to pay the bankers' irresponsibility, we refuse to call taxpayers to pay the oversight failure, we refuse to call taxpayers to pay the European Commission's liabilities and, above all, we refuse to call taxpayers to pay the PSD/CDS government's irresponsibility. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u205	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u206	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: Mr. João Almeida's intervention decreed the hibernation of the CDS and the resurrection of the People's Party. In fact, Mr. João Almeida's speech has told us that from now on the CDS will ask us to leave the images of the bad things of the previous government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The CDS tries well to pretend that it was not part of the previous government, but PSD and CDS were government from June 2011 until days ago. The Banif case takes place in the last three years, that is, from the end of 2012 to the last few days. Now « Banif case » is the whole responsibility of the former PSD / CDS government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u207	during this period, the government had all the information to intervene in time in Banif and preferred not to do so. Banif was a state bank for three years! The government had all the information to act and prevent such a heavy overthrow for Portuguese taxpayers. Your Government, the previous government, has submitted eight restructuring plans to the Directorate-General for Competition. These eight restructuring plans have all been down and it is strange that the PSD/CDS government, the former Government, has not been alarmed at the lead of these eight restructuring plans. Even so, you were not awake to the dramatic situation in Banif. And they did not wake up when the European Commissioner wrote to the former Minister of Finance saying that Banif was not viable and that an urgent response was needed until March 2015. What was the response of the previous government? None!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u208	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u209	You did not present any restructuring plans until March 2015! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In December 2014 Banif was unable to pay the loan of EUR 125 million to the State. You also continued not to strange that situation and did not wake up to the difficult, dramatic situation in which Banif was. Have you not surprised the stock exchange devaluation of around 98 % or 99 % of Banif? That wasn't what I was saying—in fact, I said! — to the public that the situation in which the bank was in was extremely difficult? But you have remained indifferent and insensitive to the situation. Did the PSD/CDS government have or did not have all the information to intervene in Banif and thus avoid this account of EUR 2255 million? He had all the information and he should have acted, but he didn't. And why didn't you? For reasons of managing the electoral calendar, and this is in view of everyone! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why was it not possible to postpone this decision later? For three reasons: first, because Banif's voluntary sale failed on 18 December; second, because last Monday Banif was prevented from financing himself with the European Central Bank; third, because the European Mechanism did not grant the licence to a transitional bank. Therefore, there were only two legal exits here: either the resolution with sale, which was the solution adopted, or the settlement of the Bank. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u210	And the bank's liquidation had a much higher cost than double the resolution for sale. The CDS here in the national Parliament voted against, in general, this amending budget, although in Madeira and the Azores it voted in favour. The fact is that here, by voting against, you're saying that you'd prefer another option, that is, the dismissal of 1600 workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u211	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u212	... the negative impact on the economy of the Azores and Madeira, the emptying of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and also a contagion crisis to the banking sector. This, for us, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Government members, it was the right solution, which best defends the interests of taxpayers and the national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u213	Mr João Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u214	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr João Paulo Correia for having devoted all his speech to the CDS. I understand that I do not give it to my fellow members of the government, because I had little to tell them right now, except to ask them why they do not support the proposal they bring here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But I would like to say to you, with all due respect, Mr: no, we did not advocate liquidation. It was because we did not defend the liquidation that we took the positions we took for three years together. So we're not leaving any photographs. [[PS and PCP protests.]] We're not in a photograph with you! That's what we're not! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] You can be sure that in the photograph of whoever asks taxpayers to pay more than the financial system to save Banif we are not on your side. But we have been in government with great honor for the last three years, and we have explained very well what has been done. [[PS protests.]] What happened was that, contrary to what the European Union wanted, which was to say that the Bank was not viable, and if the Bank was not viable it had to be liquidated, who opposed the liquidation was exactly the government that was part of the PSD and the CDS. So if there was anything we did during these three years, it was to avoid this liquidation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u215	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u216	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is therefore with great honour, Mr President, that we consistently defend the fact that with the PSD we have avoided liquidation for the last three years and that, as the CDS at this time, we do not agree with the proposal that you put forward, because it is a bad proposal and because it harms taxpayers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u217	The Minister for Finance has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The decision we made here today was a difficult decision, taken in absolutely compressed time. It was a decision resulting from three years of non-decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that within the framework of the Adjustment Programme there was a word to address the problems of the financial sector. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] It is also true that this statement has not been exhausted. If there were problems in the financial sector, it seems that the XIX Constitutional Government found solutions to these problems by spending less money. But it is also true, and here is the paradox, which in the case of Banif was used almost 10 % of this money in a bank with a market share of 3 % in deposits and 3 % in credits. 10 % were used to go to a bank that weighed 3 % on the system and no solution was found. There were alternatives, because there are always alternatives in politics,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u219	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u220	... and these alternatives, on December 18, were the Bank's resolution, in the molds in which it was realized, or its liquidation. The liquidation had a cost that could be assessed in two very simple ways: or we looked at the asset and we found that it is 10 billion Banif's asset and that was the economic loss that would be associated with the liquidation, or we looked at what was lost at the time of the settlement and saw EUR 5000 million of deposits, EUR 1100 million invested in the Bank, plus EUR 1200 million of creditors, plus the 1600 jobs, plus the dynamic effects on the regional economy of the Azores and Madeira and the Portuguese banking system. There was no other way to act in this situation. What the Government has done over time, in its relationship with the European authorities, will surely be evaluated in the parliamentary committee which will investigate the Banif case. The State, after the letter which was however known to the Commissioner of December 2014, which did not find a structural solution for Banif, was to renew the administration appointed by minority shareholders and in which the State had only one non-executive administrator. Mrs. Members, what the government was confronted with was not what the government expected to find in the case of Banif.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u221	Yeah, no! The cause was the footnote!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u222	The extraordinary pressure on the government's decision led to the decision being the one that lowered costs for the system and costs for taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u223	Mr Carlos Pereira is still on record for a brief speech. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, allow me to address your ex to say that the PSD and the CDS have spent many days telling the Socialist Party and the Government not to spoil. After all, Mr. Prime Minister, it was all ruined. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that this Budget serves to solve what the PSD and CDS have ruined. It's up to 3000 million PSD and CDS damage! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u225	The second note is to tell the honourable Members. Members of the Autonomous Regions who, instead of a declaration of vote, should make an apology to their fellow citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u226	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u227	I'm done, Mr. President. This is because, if the PSD wash its hands and the CDS-PP vote against, it would contribute to the collapse of the regional economies of Madeira and the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u228	We shall initiate the vote in the speciality of Bill No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). Mrs. Members, according to the understanding among the benches, we will begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the bill, which, in turn, adds Article 259. o -A to Law No 82 - B / 2014 of 31 December. I wonder if any Member of the PS wishes to clarify the meaning of this amendment, which is available for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u229	It is not possible to clarify!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u230	I would like to take the floor, Mr President, on an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u231	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u232	Mr President, I believe that this statement by Mr President is absolutely extemporaneous, since the Socialist Party had all the time available to present the issues during the debate in the specialty. however, instead, the PS understood to make interventions of another content, which is legitimate. Now, we cannot reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u233	Mr President, it is not extemporaneous because what the Bureau wanted was to make it clear that any doubt that any of the Members had. Members still had and that they did not have time to put it in order could be clarified. Now, if the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the Bureau accepts this understanding without any problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u234	Mr President, allow me again to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u235	Mr. Luís Montenegro, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u236	Mr President, with due respect, I reaffirm that your statement is even extemporaneous and that your explanation does not take, because there is no need to clarify the parliamentary groups here. What is at stake is the following: there is a proposing party, this proposing party had time to intervene, that time for the submission of the proposal. This party decided to use this time in another way, and therefore Mr President has no need to resolve and, I am sorry, it does not have to interfere in the management of the time of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u237	Mr President, the last word of the Bureau is as follows: the honourable Member and the parliamentary group representing have exceeded the time available in one minute and 31 seconds; the Socialist Party has exceeded it in 47 seconds. It has no moral authority to raise this issue in those terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]] The gentlemen. Members can continue this incident as they wish, I will also answer how to understand. Please, Mr. Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u238	Mr President, I cannot let your statement be made clear. I would like to reject it and say that there is no principle of equality between the parliamentary groups, that Mr President has exceeded himself and that he continues to note, as he said on the day he took possession, that he has not yet acquired the conditions of exemption and impartiality for the exercise of his office. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u239	Mr President, I do not admit any such note to you! You know perfectly well that this is not true today, but you have had a number of times to see your parliamentary group benefit from the tolerance of the Bureau, especially with regard to the Rules of Procedure. For example, the 30-minute period for the interruption of work was exceeded by about 20 minutes by the PSD Parliamentary Group and the Bureau did not make any comments because of this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, let us then proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 2. o-A...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u240	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u241	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u242	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to say that, in our view, the legitimacy of who is elected in this Parliament, whether for which he is responsible, is unquestionable... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that the exercise of Parliament's presidency by you has corresponded to the exercise of your obligations, to the good conduct of Parliament and we deserve this testimony and support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also want to convey to you that it is not through fun maneuvers such as that which the PSD is making it hide the shame of managing this Banif file over the past few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Mrs. Members, we shall vote in the speciality on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 2. o -A to Bill No 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), which, in turn, adds Article 259. o -A to Law No 82 - B / 2014 of 31 December 2014 [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and of the Members of PSD Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: Article 2a Addendum to Law No 82-B/2014 of 31 December Article 259a is added to Law No 82-B/2014 of 31 December 2014 with the following wording: ‘Article 259a Increase in the share capital of Banif — Banif International Funchal Bank, SA 1 — In the context of the process of application of resolution measures to Banif — Banif International Bank of Funchal, SA, the State is authorised by order of the member of the Government responsible for the area of finance, to subscribe and to an increase in capital in that institution, up to the limit of 1,766,000,000.00, using the funds of Chapter 60 of the Ministry of Finance, applying Article 16(7) of Law 63A/2008 of 24 November, as amended by Laws No 3B/2010 of 28 April, 55-A/2010 of 31 December, 64-B/2011 of 30 December, 26/B of 11 December, 66/2012 of 11 January, 1/2014 of 31 January, 31 January, 31 January 2014, of 11 December, 31 January, 31 January, 31 December, 31/2014 of December, 31 January, 31/ December, 31 January, 31 January, 26 December, 31 January, 31 January 2014, and 11 January 2014, and 31 January, 31 January, 31 January, 31 January, 31 January, 31 January, 16 and 11 January, 31 January, 26 January, 26 January, 16 and 11 January, 31 January, 31 January, 26 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 11 January, 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 January, 10 January, 10 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 11 January, 10 and 2 — This law constitutes a considerable title for the practice of the acts provided for in the previous paragraph, with the State exempt from registration duties and other legally provided procedures and the competent divisions, by means of simple communication from the member of the Government responsible for the area of finance, shall carry out all acts necessary for the subsequent regularisation of the situation.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u244	I have been informed that there is an understanding that Articles 1 are to be voted together in the speciality. o, 2. a is 4. the proposal of Law No 8 / XIII ( 1. ( a). As such, we will vote for them. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS and of the Members of the PSD Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and the PSD abstention.]] As there is consensus, we shall vote on Article 3. that of the bill, which changes maps I to IX and XV and XVI. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS and PSDP Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the PSD abstention.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No 8 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) with the amendment adopted in the meantime. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS and of the Members of the PSD Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, votes against BE, CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and the PSD abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u245	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u246	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u247	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will make a written statement of vote on the vote we have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u248	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u249	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u250	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u251	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group is seeking the final drafting of this bill as well as the reduction to one day of the claim period after publication in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u252	of the contacts that the Bureau had with the Presidency of the Republic, I think it is really necessary for this diploma to be delivered even today in Bethlehem. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reduction of the claim deadline is not for one day, it is even for zero days. Thus, if no one opposes, there will be no final drafting of this bill, no time limit for complaint. [[Pause.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u253	Mr President, it is not a matter of bad will, but I think that there can be no derogation from the deadline but, indeed, its reduction to one day. however, there may be informal availability to bring the document to the Presidency of the Republic for analysis by Mr President, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u254	Mr President, I thank you, but the Bureau has found that there is a precedent proposed by the PSD Parliamentary Group and accepted by all others at the time of the vote on the last electoral laws, in which there was not even a day's deadline for complaint. So I think it is possible to do as the Bureau proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u255	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u256	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u257	Mr President, it is only to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the overall final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u258	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u259	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u260	Is it for the same purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u261	Mr President, it is also to announce that the Members elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u262	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, have you asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u263	Mr President, also to announce that the CDS will present a written vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-12-23.u264	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, finished our work, I present vows of good parties, good Christmas and an excellent year of 2016. The next plenary meeting will take place on 6 January and will take place on the agenda of political declarations and the assessment of petition No 513 / XII ( 4. a ) — Submitted by Monica Sofia Correia Barbosa and others, asking the Assembly of the Republic that the presence of the father or companion in the cesareans programmed and considered at low risk be ensured in all units of the National Health Service where children are born, and petition No 402 / XII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Submitted by the Community Centre for the Fifth of the Count, requesting a consensus from the Assembly of the Republic on the urgency of the construction of the home of the elderly of the Community Centre for the Fifth of the Count. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 8 minutes.]]
