ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 12 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Mrs. Members, having no record today, we will begin the agenda, the first item of which consists in the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 1292 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Valuating the Formosa River and clarifying the legal status of the Culatra core ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1308 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — for the recognition of the social, economic and cultural value of the urban nuclei of the boreholes of the Formosa river and immediate suspension of the demolition of dwellings in Culatra, Hangares, Farol, Ancão peninsula and islands of the Formosa river ( PCP ), 1394XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition of the economic and cultural value of the existing population nuclei on the islands and islands of the Formosa River and on the Ancão Peninsula ( BE ) and 1398 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ). Mrs. Members, the parties responsible for the initiatives have one more minute and have their speakers registered to present them. Thus, in order to present the joint initiative of the PSD and the CDS-PP, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Formosa River is a fragile, complex, dynamic ecosystem that has been abandoned and banned over decades. Therefore, in 2005, when the POOC (Orla Costeira Management Plan) emerged and in 2007 when the Polis Society emerged, it was found that there was an ambitious goal to force the initiative, creating investments, alternatives and economic solutions, essential to rehabilitate the Formosa River, create wealth, offer employment solutions and, ultimately, ensure that those communities had hope for the future. Now, if so, very little has been done between 2008 and 2011. But, on the contrary, between 2011 and 2015 much has been done. It cannot be said today in favour of the truth that nothing has been done and that the funds have been channelled exclusively for demolition. on the contrary, we have launched competitions for ETAR, which amount to EUR 15 million, and also for dredgings, which amount to EUR 6, 5 million. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u3	Finally, we have a set of neurotic aspects to resize the Formosa River, to enhance and encourage economic solutions that are essential to ensure the objective that you chaired for the realization of the POCC and the operation of the Poli Society. Now, if it is important to say this, it is also important to explain other neural aspects: from then on, that the Formosa Ria suffers from pollution outbreaks that have to be eradicated, some already recognized, including by the City Hall of Olhão, and others, of other public entities, which have to be evaluated, measured and must be strongly combated. But we also want to assume that there must be a sustainable tourism certification to ensure that the Formosa River has these alternatives and economic solutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u4	We've been able to do this work, and I'm afraid we did it right. But more than doing this work, we must do something else: we must ensure the persecution of the public's interest, and this persecution is done by replacing legality and also by valuing and recognizing the specificity of the Culatra core. The core of Culatra is a centennial core, which has economic value, is a fishing core, it is a core that deserves a particular treatment, depending on its importance. As a result, what we want — and our proposal goes so far — is to clarify the status of the core of Culatra, to guarantee its identity, to promote its perpetuation and, at the same time, to be able to combine the economic value that it creates with the preservation of its identity,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u5	...which is an absolutely vital element to offer future conditions to those populations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u6	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For many years, successive governments, the pretext of a supposed defence of natural values, have sought to expel local communities from the barrier islands of the Formosa River and limit the right of populations to use this lagoon system as a space for development of economic activity and also as a space of leisure and enjoyment, with the aim, never confessed, of delivering this valuable natural heritage to the great private interests... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u8	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u9	...to explore it, for your benefit. It was, therefore, in other areas of the coastal Algarve coast, that is how it is in the narrow islands of the Formosa River!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u10	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u11	The CFP does not accept that, in order to satisfy the greed of the large economic groups, people's rights are sacrificed. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Artur Rêgo.]] The PCP understands that the protection of natural resources and values should take into account traditional habits, practices and activities of protected areas, and cannot contribute to distance the populations from the areas and values to be protected. The CFP understands that the existence of the urban nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa River, as well as its social, economic and cultural value, should be recognized. Recently, the government accelerated the offensive against the local communities of the slums, beginning the process of demolition of homes, first on the islands and on the Ancão peninsula and then on the island of Culatra. When interventions were required to protect and safeguard natural resources and values, to protect coastal shores from erosion processes and to improve the functioning of the lagoon system: when investments were required in the re-qualification of areas built on the barrier islands; when support for economic activities was required... [[There's the investment! 40 million!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u12	... and in particular to fishing and seafood activities, the Government opts to spend millions of euros of public time on demolition of dwellings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u13	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u14	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u15	Finally rejecting this demolition policy of the Government and the majority PSD / CDS, which gives continuity to a process initiated by the former PS Government, the CFP is advancing for the second time today with a draft resolution that requires the end of the demolition; that requires the requalification of the urban nuclei and bathing spaces of the islands-barreira, guaranteeing the right of use of these spaces by local populations and tourists visiting the region; that requires the requalification of the lagoon system of the Formosa River...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u16	It's being done!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u17	...through the urgent adoption of measures, often promised, but always postponed. It is a draft resolution that requires support for economic activities that are the livelihood of thousands of families. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are also discussing a draft resolution of the PSD and the CDS, an initiative that has as its sole objective to divide and demobilize the very righteous struggle of the... [[You don't have, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u18	...to make time to continue with the demolition. But this manoeuvre of the PSD and the CDS cannot conceal the fact that the Government maintains intact its intention to expel the local communities from the barrier islands, sacrificing them to serve the interests of the large economic groups who intend to appropriate themselves to the natural heritage of the Formosa River and explore it for their benefit. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] in this struggle, the PCP is unequivocally, without ambiguities, on the side of the populations, in defense of their right to enjoy the wealth of the Formosa River. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u19	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Cecília Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: To the people here present our greeting. We can say a lot about the importance of the Formosa river, from a natural and environmental point of view, and we will certainly agree, we can talk about the strategic importance of the barrier islands, but almost everything separates us from the solutions that most of us now have, better said, from the lack of solutions. from our point of view, the protection of natural heritage and the environmental value of the river and the islands is not incompatible with the...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u22	... that often, in most cases, have lived in these territories for tens of years and have ensured the sustainability of these territories. It is from this point of view that we are in a position. The Left Block defends the immediate suspension of the demolition and the relocation of all those who have lost their first home. [[It's done!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u23	We demand the requalification of the population nuclei, the requalification of the Formosa River, the urgent dredging of the natural dams. This week, we heard Mr Minister in the Commission and we knew that dredging is, fortunately, a few months from now and that the homes of the livers and seafarers—as if they were very important houses! — go below,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u24	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u25	...and they go down when they have no other alternative, no structures, no support points. These houses go down! We have heard that the Minister, in his fundamentalist faith as a great environmentalist, is either 'zero construction' on the islands of bars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u26	There's Culatra!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u27	We do not know whether, from here on, there are even conditions for having bungalows there, but the obsession is the « building zero». [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] After much effort and pressure, the Minister there was able to tell us that the first house does not go down unless there is reallocation. And this is where I'm leaving, because this statement is false.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u28	It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u29	I want to leave just a few examples of dramatic situations, which obviously cause a deep sense of injustice and enormous indignation in people. Coco Island: five displaced families, some of which with sick people and children; were run from their homes with a single promise from the Police : « arrange for there some houses that may then give us a few months of income». Rats Island: three families evicted, with small children, a pregnant woman, clothes and furniture put in containers, however, stolen. Here, there was at least no understanding or intention of realisation. Faro Beach, just one example among so many others: a woman, a medical nurse, with a younger daughter, put a precautionary measure to prevent her house from coming down, but the house came down against the guidelines of the court itself. I am going to save you from the abuses that you have been subjected to — invasion of privacy, beatings at the door, destroyed goods — but I will not spare the Minister all of these situations of prepotence, abuse and lack of response. The question I leave you with is this: for these families, what is the answer that most people have? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u30	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Miguel Freitas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A government in the last year of office, with a POOC in the last year of operation, with a Polis to one year of completion, after having been stopped three years — the last job was of August 2011 and there were only new jobs in August 2014, three years without new jobs, three years of stopping— decided to move forward by reprograming Polis with a high priority: demolishing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u32	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u33	Demolition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u34	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u35	The question I was asking was to tear down, for what? Demolition to requalify? Don't! Demolition by demolition, because the truth is that no programme reprogramming was done by 2020, which was cut by 50 % of the money that was in the requalification programme. There was a question of whether it was now progressing, or not, with the recognition of the legal certainty of the Culatra core. The fact is that the government has requested a study, has created a working group to study and has not decided.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u36	The former government did not create a working group!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u37	And finally, the dredgings, the absolute priority of the dredgings was at the end of the program. Well, what we have now running in the Formosa River is an inconsequential demolition program. Mr President, several times he speaks about what happened 25 years ago, but we want to say that the same mistake is being made: inconsequential demolition is what is being done, as has been done 25 years ago! What the majority has proposed today will follow what the government has done. First, he says: "Let's review the POOC and then give legal certainty to the island of Culatra". No, no. They have four months for, with this POOC, they can recognize and make the grant of the core of Culatra to the municipality of Faro. You have four months to do this, because the POOC, this POOC, allows this to be done. They are saying, on the right to housing, « there is a need for caution». No, no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. The right to housing is a constitutional right of persons. Today there are family aggregates who have nowhere to live because their houses have been demolished. Not many, it's true, but they're people. There are eight family aggregates that do not have their situation resolved. And, of course, they have to move forward with the issue of dredging, which continues to be a priority. Surely it is necessary to take into account the review of the POOC and to ensure that the treatment of equality between all islands is ensured in this review. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u38	Mr. Artur Rêgo has the floor to present the draft resolution together with the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting this draft resolution with the conviction of two things: firstly, we are convinced that there is a path that is already far behind, which has already taken too many steps to be stopped, which is being made and which has been initiated by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u40	That's new now!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u41	Here we go, Mr. Miguel Freitas. It was initiated by the Socialist Party and is a way of not returning. The question that should be asked is: should it have been initiated? But that's another question. This Government has taken up an ongoing process, a process which was more than launched and packaged by the Socialist Party and would therefore have to continue. Moreover, as Mr Freitas knows, there are international commitments made by the Portuguese State, there are Community funds involved and this process, which the Socialist Party has initiated, generated and maquinou, is a process which if interrupted will entail damage of many million to the Portuguese State. Mr President, there is another question, which is to go along this path with good sense and meeting the objectives that were initially proposed. Our draft resolution goes that way. Demolition is done, as is expected 20 years ago, 25 years ago, but for what is the purpose of them: renaturalization and requalification. This process is being initiated. However, in our draft resolution, we propose that instead of blindly classifying the houses as the first and only dwelling, or not, on the initiative and, often, the wake-up of the people, if they have due attention on the ground, during the process of demolition, in all cases where there is doubt, in which there are people complaining that, in due time, they had presented the documentation proving that it was their first and only dwelling and by arrogance, by administrative blindness on the part of the Police, on the part of the Government of the Socialist Party, such situations have been ignored. Therefore, the recommendation we make to the Government is: 'Yes, sir, they have to do the demolitions — it is in the law, it is complied with, but with due care and without encroaching on the rights of people'. I now see here the Socialist Party, who was the father of this hydra—and when I speak in hydra, I mean that whole project that goes from the plans to the barrier islands to the creation of the Polis, with all the powers they gave him and all the competences to the POOC—that is to say that the people revolted because of the "skin" that was already on their heads. The Socialist Party is now coming to make an innocent virgin and to say that it has nothing to do with it. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u42	Tell the nude! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u43	Here, here! You're the authors. On the other hand, I see the parties to the left of the Socialist Party with positions which, at the moment, are ashamed, because it is a use of people's desperate situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u44	Who gave up?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u45	Who's tearing down?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u46	The CDS-PP should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u47	I have never seen you worry about the people of the Isle of Barriers. Never!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u48	The gentleman is distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u49	I've never seen you worry about the Formosa River. I'll see you there now! I hope that most of you will have to ask 'where to get the bus' in order to go to the bars! Maybe you don't even know you can't go by bus there... [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u50	Don't say nonsense, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u51	What a sad figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u52	They have no idea what's going on there. And I can't see anyone here saying, in the middle of this, that the government has saved the most important core of Culatra. It is safeguarded, it will be re-qualified, was made the agreement with the Culatra Residents Association. That one's preserved. Nor do I see anyone here saying that the main pollution factor of the Formosa River...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u53	It's the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u54	...are not the fishermen, they are not the mariners, they are not the vivairists, they are the polluting discharges of the City Hall of Olhão, the ETAR, which will now be re-qualified. This chamber was socialist for many years, "he stuck his head in the sand" all these years and never wanted to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u55	The more he speaks, the more he burys himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u56	It's a shame to be saying that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u57	The House never wanted to know what was going on. In conclusion, I will say that respect for people implies that they are not taken away from what their first and only dwelling.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u58	Do you want to respect the people? End the demolition!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u59	It implies that, in a path that has been traced for many years, yes, sir, it dissolves, as it was determined, what are second homes and holiday houses but that it respects those who actually live in the slums, who actually have their dwelling there, has their residence there and has no alternative. Finally, as for the displaced, it's good...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u60	Sir, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u61	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that it is good to make it clear here that the City Hall of Olhão, for example, refused to collaborate with the Government to give up housing for these populations. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u62	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, once again, to respect regiment times. For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in this debate, in order to be serious, we must all start from a principle: the people are not against the Formosa River. It seems that in this whole process, there are those who think that populations and residents will, perhaps, be against the river.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u64	The residents stay there!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u65	Moreover, populations have been the main victims of the inertia of successive governments in relation to what was essential to be done in the Formosa River in order to requalify them. And small activities have been, as we know, victims of this inertia and of the incompetence of successive governments. Speaking in populations and in people, what do the Greens think is fundamental in this process? We know that the process, as it is proposed, will start a conflict. There is absolutely no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u66	Is it in favor or against?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u67	Mr. Cristovão Norte, what was it that was fundamental to have been done? It was to have involved the populations, to have promoted a highly participatory, interactive and collaborative process of the populations. What did we find out last Tuesday when the Minister for the Environment came to the Commission? That the participation of the populations was given as follows: some editorials were placed and notifications were made!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u68	Is it for or against?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u69	This is absolutely embarrassing! You should be ashamed of the way this is called 'participation'. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this could only 'do wrong', it could not have any other result. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are also talking about risk situations for populations, we need to intervene. You have already heard the Greens say this countless times in the Assembly of the Republic. I ask you to do an interesting exercise: look at some luxury tourist enterprises that are located in that area, look at some private land that certainly causes a damaged appetite for the construction of luxury enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u70	You have to ask the Communist Party what it wants!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u71	Wait, sir. Then take a map and make a straight line to the area of the sea and see where the demolitions are, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It's just that it gets in the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u72	You don't know the honourable Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u73	Catch the luxury enterprises, disrupt future luxury enterprises! Why are demolitions made in one place and not in the other, where the risk is the same? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what do we need to conclude from here? It is concluded that there is much to be explained, that there is much that cannot be understood and that there is much that needs to be clarified. And the government doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u74	You don't understand what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u75	Obviously, all that is misunderstood is natural to be challenged. But what is absolutely embarrassing is that a minister arrives at the Committee on the Environment and says that those populations, those residents are all being instrumentalized. I would like to know if you are able to say that today, here, because you are making people crazy. And people aren't crazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u76	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u77	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u78	I will finish, Madam President. No one else than the Greens has spoken about climate change, and we cannot admit that the Minister speaks of climate change when it is appropriate but when it is not appropriate for him, in other parts of the country, where other businesses and many infrastructures linked to the sea are being built, the Minister shuts his mouth and does not remember any more of the climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u79	What is your position? Can't you say?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u80	This must be a matter of consequence: when there is a risk it is necessary to intervene. People don't want to be at risk. Now, integrated solutions are needed, with the participation of populations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u81	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u82	...and people are sick of being sneered on all sides by this government! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u83	The Bureau also records the inscriptions of the Members. Deputies Miguel Freitas, Paulo Sá and Cristovão Norte. The inscriptions were simultaneous and therefore we must give them an order. We're going to order the intervention of the ladies. Members, to the extent that they still have time, in accordance with the order in which the draft resolutions are presented. [[Protests of PSD, PS and PCP Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to understand or I will not give the floor to any of the Members. Member States. I'm sorry, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow the order of presentation of the draft resolutions. Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u84	Madam President, I mean two or three things that are essential. First of all, on the issue of concession, some parties come here to defend the concession. It's all worth it! This is because, when they accuse this government of having a hidden, hidden agenda, and of wanting to use the public domain for unclear purposes, what is seen is that, when they defend an untidy concession, in the background, they are opening up space for tourist enterprises and for a profit of great economic interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u85	That's old enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u86	Therefore, this issue must not be addressed to the Government, it must be returned to the Communist Party and the Socialist Party, because what we want is diametrically the opposite. We want investment in the development of the Formosa River and, in the last four years, 35 million are already in progress. But above all, we want something else that is essential: we want the Culatra core to be protected, because it has an identity, it has residents, it has schools and infrastructures. It is a core that has overcome the agrarians of time and is, above all, a core that deserves its legal status to be clarified to guarantee its identity, to perpetuate it, to value its historical heritage and also to value the barrier islands. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u87	Many arrive here today, and, in an electionist drive, forget what they said in 2005 and, also in an electionist drive, forget what they said and what they did approve in 2007, but we are not talking about a government that, in the last year, makes investments and measures, we are talking about those who, in the first year, thoughtfully, structurally, thought about a plan for the Formosa River, which is being implemented today. It is therefore nothing nice for the Socialist Party to assume the position it takes here today, because the Socialist Party, in 2005, was left to establish the POOC,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u88	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u89	... in 2007, by the Municipal Chambers of Faro and Olhão, it was read to approve it and at the time they called renaturalizations to what they knew were demolitions. in the background, they turned their backs on the people and today come here seeking to redeem themselves from these sins. No, my lords! They must assume your responsibilities, as we assume our responsibilities, which are, above all, of having produced investment and ensure that there will be the valorization of the Formosa River in order to recover the abandonment, inertia and resignation of the public authorities that, for decades at a time, have been very penalizing for those populations. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u90	Mrs. Members, however, the Bureau realized that it should be the PSD to close the debate, which the PSD should have reminded the Bureau. I'm sorry, but we're not always right. For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD and the CDS come here to talk about respect for the residents but, on the ground, continue the demolitions: first, on the islands of the Formosa River ; now, on the beach of Faro ; then, on the island of Culatra. The intention of the government and the majority PSD/CDS is to demolish. Your intention is to demolish those dwellings, to expel the local communities from the barrier islands and your draft resolution is only aimed at trying to divide the populations and try to hinder the very struggle of these populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u92	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u93	It is a maneuver to make time in order to continue with the demolitions on the ground. And, following the demolitions, after having expelled the local communities from the barricades, they want to renaturalize to give this space to large private interests, as they have done in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u94	It's a shame to say that, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u95	Take it, Mrs. Members of the majority PSD and CDS, have the courage to assume that your commitment is not with the people, it is not with the residents of the barrier islands, your commitment is with the large economic groups who intend to appropriate the Formosa River, that valuable heritage, to exploit it for their own benefit. Have the courage to take that! [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Cecília Honorio, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u97	Madam President, I am not going to respond to nonsense... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u98	... because it seems that they are much more offensive to the people and their problems than, properly, offensive to the different parliamentary groups that make this debate with the seriousness that it requires. Let's talk seriously about the majority's proposals. What most do is isolate the situation of Culatra, forgetting what has already been done there. The question that we are asking is this: surely we must preserve Culatra.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u99	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u100	But why does Culatra have special treatment? Why is there no equal treatment on all islands? Why isn't there a safeguard of all population nuclei and their history?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u102	This is the fundamental doubt that we put in front of your solution. More, and worse: what do you say about the suspension of demolition? Zero, zero! The only thing they say is 'we will have the necessary caution when it comes to first dwellings' — zero! There is, here, no concrete proposal for all families that have been dug up from their houses, whose goods have been placed on the street,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u103	Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u104	...including some of them were stolen, right now. The answer to these family dramas is zero! The third hypothesis they suggest is the certification of the European Charter of Sustainable Tourism, which we do not know exactly what it means. from our point of view, the position is clear: we will stop this process, we will stop the demolitions, we will create conditions for the populations to be heard with all respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u105	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u106	Finally, Madam President, saying that we recognize, on this initiative, huge inconsistencies, even in the legal level, with houses classified as second residence and which are of the first habitation. We will stop to respect the people, consider that they are part of the history of this territory and are not enemies of their preservation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u107	You have the floor by the PS, Mr. Miguel Freitas, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u108	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS had a plan to re-qualify the Formosa River with 92 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u109	They ran 3 million!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u110	You cut back on the requalification, today you have a plan for 2015 of EUR 45 million to demolish. The PS has left a POOC, it is true, where it is allowed to solve, from now on, the problem of Culatra. What are you guys doing? They're saying it takes a new POOC and a new government to solve!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u111	But to improve!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u112	I want to tell you: yes, a new Government of the Socialist Party will solve the problem of Culatra, which you will not solve. The Socialist Party commits itself here to solving this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u113	They haven't solved for 16 years in power! It was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u114	True, it must be said that you now come with the phantom of instrumentalization, which Mr Minister has already used. Today, here, we hear the same speech from the CDS bench and I want to tell you that this is an offense to the people who are defending their interests. People are not instruments but, yes, people who have rights and are those rights that we are defending here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u115	Finally, you are all relieved of your responsibility with regard to the reallocation of people.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u116	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u117	This is, first of all, the responsibility of the State. If Mr. Minister wants to dialogue with the cameras, find a way to do it and solve the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u118	Mrs. Members, the debate on the draft resolutions on the Formosa River is concluded. I'm asking the ladies. Members who, in the next debate, respect more times. We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill No 835 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 5 / 98 of 31 January, establishing a new model for the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the other members of the Board of Directors ( PS ). To present the bill, I give the floor to Mr Eduardo Cabrito. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If something has changed radically in Portuguese public life in recent years it has been the centrality of the Banco de Portugal's role in monitoring the effects of the international financial crisis, in the debate on the future of the euro, in the participation in the construction of the banking union, involving the creation of a single mechanism for supervision of the largest national banks and a single resolution mechanism at European level. Also at the internal level, the stability of the financial system, the credibility of the financial institutions and the role of the bank in supporting the recovery of the economy are nuclear issues of the national agency, priority in the parliamentary debate and in the national debate. in general countries of the European Union the designation of the Governor of the central bank involves an extended consultation, the intervention of the Head of State and in many cases of Parliament. in a significant number of countries, the designation of the central bank governor shall be made by Parliament. In view of this centrality of the financial system and the relevance of the proper functioning of the supervisory and regulatory mechanisms, it is understood that the PS, with a sense of State, aims to strengthen the independence and credibility of the Banco de Portugal, that the designation of the Governor should require a co-responsibility of the Government, the Assembly of the Republic and also the President of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The invocation of intermittent constitutional doubts, contradictory to previous positions of these parties, or doubts of opportunity that illude the central issue, does not alienate the PS from, in good time, proposing a solution responsible to the Assembly of the Republic in the process of designation of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, providing for the holding of a parliamentary hearing and the issue of an opinion by the Finance Committee. We do so with a sense of responsibility, because of institutional duty and in due time. We all know when the term of office of the current government ends, as we all know when the term of office of the current Governor of Banco de Portugal ceases. Our proposal does not reflect any personal judgment and departs from any short-term party judgment. We are concerned about the institutional strengthening of the process of appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, the de-governmentization of the appointment process and the contribution to strengthening the independence and credibility of the Central Bank. We believe that this is also the opportunity to enrich the Banco de Portugal with the merits resulting from a balanced gender participation in its administration, which is also a sign of a more equal society which must also reach the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PS demonstrates, with this proposal, that it is concerned about solutions involving all sovereignty agencies and contributes to confidence in the institutions in the Banco de Portugal, in this case, that growth, investment and job creation are given priority, and that the financial system is a decisive part of the solution and never again, much of the problem. Let us hope that all banks are available to meet this challenge and strengthen the legitimacy of the Banco de Portugal with the voice that only the Assembly of the Republic can give in this support to the functioning of a financial system in the service of Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u120	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative shows how the Socialist Party deals with state affairs and how it changes its mind when it is dealing with places in the State. Let us remember the history: on 21 February 2000 Eng. Guterres was Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance was Pina Moura. Who do you appoint as Governor of Banco de Portugal? The former PS leader, Vítor Constance. The legislation is correct. On 11 May 2006 the Prime Minister was Eng.o Socrates, the Minister of Finance was Teixeira dos Santos. Who do you appoint as Governor of Banco de Portugal? The former leader of the Socialist Party, Vítor Constance. The rules are correct. On 22 April 2010 the Prime Minister was Eng. Socrates and the Minister of Finance was Teixeira dos Santos. They are appointed Governor of Banco de Portugal Carlos Costa, because the former PS leader had, however, left for the ECB. The rules were still right. In 2015, the PS is no longer in government; so it is necessary to change the rules, because the PS wants to have a word. That is how you act when it comes to affairs or places in the State. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] According to many months ago, the Government and the majority have called on the PS to make there available for understandings of regime matters such as social security, limits or ceilings of expenditure or debt. The PS is against, not thinking, only after the elections! But is there an open place? So, the PS is already available to negotiate, for understandings, even for a constitutional review, if necessary, such is the PS's suffering by the places of the state! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u122	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u123	Third, how does this idea come about? The PS makes a parliamentary journey and has to have some result, has to present something to the country. But the PS, the Long Mouse and its leader run away to present solutions to the problems of Portugal and Portuguese. So you have to find some solution and choose to talk about a matter that concerns not the generality of the Portuguese but some socialists from off the Mouse : the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. Mrs. Members, it would be better if they thought about what affects Portugal and the Portuguese, in the first place, and this is not the first concern of the Portuguese. But let's go to the concrete proposal. The proposal in particular, Mrs. PS members, between what was presented at the end of the parliamentary days and the bill that ended up subscribing, changed a lot, showing once again the disorientation that goes off the Mouse. But before her, the PSD only has to say the following: strengthening transparency in the appointment of Banco de Portugal? We are in favour, in the opposition and today, in the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u124	Approximating the system of appointment of the administration of Banco de Portugal to the system of independent regulators? We are in favour, first, of the opposition, and now of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u125	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u126	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u127	So much conversation for nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u128	Strengthening the role of Parliament in the appointment? We are in favour of the opposition, and today in the government, because we are consistent, we are in favour of what is best for Portugal and for the Portuguese. Unfortunately, the PS changes its opinion depending on whether it is in opposition or in government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u129	I now give the floor to Mr Paulo Sá for an intervention by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The process of financial globalisation in recent decades has laid down the deregulation of financial markets and the dismantling of regulatory and control structures and mechanisms. The free movement of capital created conditions for the exponential growth of speculative activity, disconnected from the real economy and productive activities that create wealth. The result of this process is well known: a succession of increasingly frequent and destructive financial crises, with particular emphasis on the 2007 financial crisis, in which the heavy bills of bank rescue operations were presented to the people. Since 2007, in Portugal, there have been scandals in private banks, notably in BPN, BPP, BCP and BANIF, and now also in BES, involving or indicating the existence of practices and operations of data manipulation and accounts, flight and money laundering, speculation and influence trafficking. Governments, the previous one, the PS, and the current one, the PSD / CDS, have tried to pass the idea that these scandals in the bank and the bleeding of public resources to the financial sector can be stopped with more and better supervision, unfolding in legislative initiatives within the framework of the supervision of the financial system. But the truth is that these problems are not solved with cosmetic changes in the system of supervision and regulation. The problem is much more serious. It has its origin in the processes and reconstitution of the large private economic groups, in the 'financialisation' of the economy, in the policy of promiscuity and subordination of political power to the economic power and in the complicity, passivity and impotence of regulators, supervisors, auditors and political power. The successive legislative changes made in recent years, either by the current Government, PSD / CDS, or by the former Government, PS, under the regulation and supervision of the financial system, have not resolved the problem. The Portuguese continue to be called, year after year, to pay billions of euros for the dismissals of private banks. This also adds to the fact that the process of concentration and centralisation of the banking sector in the European Union, the so-called banking union, has involved the loss of control, regulation and intervention powers over the bank that the State still holds, further limiting the possibility of this strategic sector being placed at the service of our country's development. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another legislative initiative, this time presented by the PS, on the model of designation of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. It is obvious that this legislative amendment does not solve any problem of the financial and supervisory system, it does not strengthen the independence of the Governor and Banco de Portugal and, given that the new Governor of Banco de Portugal will be appointed before the forthcoming legislative elections, this is another dispute between PS and PSD for the capture of the appointing power of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we reaffirm that the problem is not in more or less supervision,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u131	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u132	... or in the model of designation of the Governor of Banco de Portugal but, yes, in the fact that the national banking sector has been handed over to large private economic groups using it as leverage for the concentration and centralisation of capital. What the country really needs is that financial activities are placed under the control and the public domain, placing them at the service of national interests. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u133	by the CDS-PP, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal which the Socialist Party now brings to us has a reference, which has been presented, although briefly, in the speech by Mr Eduardo Cabrita, to gender equality. in this matter, there are those who have more or less enthusiasm for this aspect and I confess that we do not have much, but it is those issues that will not harm and that is not why this diploma deserves or deserves no criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u135	Won't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u136	Mrs. Cecilia Meireles and I were here to talk about it without much enthusiasm, but it won't hurt.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u137	There are people who don't like to be treated as if they had any inferiority! [[Protests from PS Deputy Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u138	If you will allow me, on the central issue, which is the issue of supervision, I would like to say the following: recently, the Socialist Party has come to propose - and we must finally find an explanation for this, a reason for this proposal - including a possible constitutional review to change this matter. However, he retreated, well, in relation to this proposal. The CDS remembered until Article 133. the, paragraphq ) of the draft constitutional review of the CDS had exactly the proposal that the Socialist Party now opportunistically made but that at the time it did not remember, nor did it think about it. And opportunistically why? Why does this matter appear? Why does the Socialist Party now propose that the form of the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal should be changed? Honestly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, taking up some power, I see only one explanation: the recent criticisms that have been made to the governors of the Banco de Portugal and the supervisory failures that have meanwhile existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u139	All right! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u140	There is no other possible explanation but the Socialist Party wants to ride these same criticisms demagogically. But let's see: the former Governor of Banco de Portugal — not this, but the former — did not see, did not perceive, did not understand, did not act, did nothing in relation to the very serious case of BPN.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u141	Exactly! And the PS applauds!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u142	He failed repeatedly. The current Governor of Banco de Portugal, well, he saw, understood, but still acted late, particularly on the issue of BES. What do these two governors have in common? They have in common one thing: they were both Vítor Constâncio and the current Governor, chosen, appointed and appointed by the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[All right! It's a bad truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u143	Whoever chose was the Socialist Party and that is why this bill has an ironic side.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u144	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u145	I shall end up, Madam President, underlining the ironic side of this bill, which is the Socialist Party holding hands and saying: "We choose badly. We chose Dr. Constance and it was the disaster that was; we chose the current Governor and did not run as it was desirable; now we will try to choose differently; we will try to listen to Parliament because we put our hands on consciousness." It's obvious, sirs. Members, when the Socialist Party copies a previous proposal from the CDS, when the Socialist Party corrects, when the Socialist Party puts its hands on the conscience and says "we made a fool", which is good, is positive, and only for that reason will we achieve this same bill. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u146	by the Block of the Left, I now give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is nothing very wrong with this bill, but it is very little more than a shot of dry powder. What the bill says is that before the government decides on the name of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, the candidate is heard by COFAP, here in the Assembly of the Republic, which issues a non-binding opinion on that name. We cannot oppose this, introduce some transparency, but it is still just this and nothing more than this. And it is not worth having illusions, because it does not interfere with conditions of financial stability, because they depend on the rules of operation of the financial system; because they depend on the tax model in force; because they depend on the financial instruments and operations that are or are not allowed in the market; because they depend on the degree of liberalisation against which the PS has never opposed so far; because they depend on the perimeter and functions of the financial system, namely the separation between commercial bank and investment bank, and this has not been done or proposed by the PS. This proposal does not prevent the capture of the regulator, which happens, among other things, because bankers have the power to generate financial crises and this only resolves, whether we want or not, when the bank, which has an essential and fundamental role for the economy and democracy, is predominantly public and there is indeed democratic control over the bank. [[Oh!]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u148	Otherwise, private bankers have-CL-will - always in your hand - in your hand! — and the operation of the bank will always be in accordance with its profit needs and never according to the needs of the company, investment in the economy, investment in activities that really matter. This proposal also gives Parliament no less powers of scrutiny on the conduct of the supervisory policy, on the conduct of monetary policy or on all the functions that are well listed in the explanatory statement. Parliament has no further powers of scrutiny, and it has no reason, on behalf of the supposed independence which comes here to defend, on behalf of the depolitization of monetary policy, in the name of the degovernment of central banks, a technocratic monster called the European Central Bank has been created, which is completely shielded from what is the democratic power of scrutiny or decision and who is sent to the Banco de Portugal is the European Central Bank, not this Parliament. The Government may monitor and certainly monitor the activities of the Banco de Portugal, but it is not the Parliament that decides what the Banco de Portugal does, nor does it the Parliament that decides what the European Central Bank does. Those who send to the European Central Bank are technocrats at the service of an uncontrollable international financial system and this model has been built without opposition from the PS. This proposal therefore introduces transparency but does not solve the fundamental problem of the democracy of the financial system and the regulatory system, nor does the monetary system improve, nor does financial stability improve, nor the danger of regulatory capture is minimized. This proposal is the same: little more than a dry powder shot. I wanted to leave a small note to finish: gender balance in organs is 50 %, not 33 %. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u149	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No. 835 / XII ( 4 ) ended. ( a ) ( PS ), we move on to the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 849 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a safeguard clause for the purposes of municipal property tax and repeals the exemption granted to real estate funds ( CFP ), 851 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recurs the tax benefits of real estate funds in the payment of municipal property tax ( BE ), 852 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary suspension of the increase in municipal property tax in 2015 ( BE), 853 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Enter the annual automatic update of the housing value for the purposes of paying municipal property tax for greater social justice ( BE), 854 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introduction of reduced municipal tax rates on buildings for own housing ( BE) and 850 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater fiscal equity and greater social justice in the Code of Municipal Property Tax ( 26 ). the amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax approved by Decree-Law No 287 / 2003 of 12 November ( PS ). To present Bill No. 849 / XII ( 4. ( a ) the CFP has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of the brutal increase in IMI, following the process of updating the assets value, the CFP today brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic, with concrete solutions for the immediate, however, assuming the need to go further in the discussion and amendment of the IMI Code. We propose the creation of a safeguard clause, introducing a maximum limit of €75 in the increase of the IMI resulting from a property assessment process, in relation to the amount of IMI collected in the previous year. We intend to reduce the impact of the brutal increase in IMI on workers and reformers, especially at a time of extreme difficulties, motivated by cuts in wages and pensions and by low incomes; by cuts in social benefits; by the increase in the tax burden on workers, pensioners and the people; by unemployment and the precariousness of working relationships, in short, motivated by the policies of impoverishment and exploitation that have pushed thousands of workers and reformed to poverty. The end of the safeguard clause, with effect from 2015 onwards, will only contribute even more to the reduction of income. We also propose the end of the tax benefits for real estate. No one understands that own and permanent housing is brutally taxed and that real estate owned by real estate, which even profit from speculation, has an exemption of 50 % of the IMI. We want to put an end to this injustice!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u151	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u152	For the CFP, the impact of the IMI is not strictly due to its taxation, but also to the unfair criteria of the IMI Code that led to its general aggravation. IMI must be seen in a fair fiscal policy perspective, dishonouring its own and permanent housing and paying for its luxury heritage. The reform of the IMI requires a deeper approach on the taxation of the heritage, including the possibility of considering the taxation of the assets. Addressing the IMI implies, at the same time, addressing the questions of the financing of the authorities, contrary to logics that seek to oppose the interests of citizens to the role that the authorities take in the service of the people and to improve their living conditions. That is to say, the amendments to the IMI require at the same time changes in the financing of the authorities, finding the mechanisms that guarantee the authorities the financial resources they are entitled to fulfil their duties and autonomy, strengthening the participation of authorities in State taxes, fulfilling the constitutional principle of the fair distribution of public resources between the central and local administration rather than a local tax option as they intend to impose. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u153	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of increasing IMI is known to all of us and has been discussed several times. Therefore, it is not due to lack of information that he is created, it is by the will of this majority to again knock at the door of families to, in an insistent way, increase taxes to those who work, to those who live from their work. The increase in IMI has created many problems, and has also led to the increase in penhoras due to its non-payment. There are families who are losing their homes because they cannot pay this tax and because this government is insensitive and does not understand this problem. But in the face of this situation, we need solutions. The Left Block therefore proposes four solutions for discussion at this time. First of all, we propose what is fairer and more sensible: zero increase in 2015. After three years continuously increasing the IMI, we cannot again have an increase in 2015. It is unacceptable that the safeguard clause does not even exist, as this majority and the Government intend. A second proposal is to ensure that families living in their homes, who have their permanent housing there, can even have a discount on the IMI and thus pay less, contrary to what this government wants, than they want them to pay more for living in their homes. A third proposal aims to update the value of buildings annually, which is also absolutely fair and which is already legal. This government does not comply with it, it does not force the services to comply with it, for which the DECO has alerted us. It is that if they complied with the law and annually updated the age of the houses, which, year after year, gets older, then this age devaluation would make people pay less IMI. But no, this government does not want the services to make these changes and, therefore, what could be automatic and easy, the government prevents and makes it painful. It tells us most of these measures have costs. Now, I answer that all these measures are sensible and have benefits. But for the answer to the loss of tax revenue, then let us be fair and let us make the necessary fairness on this matter here: that ends, for example, with the tax bill given to real estate funds. Why can real estate funds pay the IMI on balances, with a discount of 50 %, and families have to pay in full, increasing year by year? It's unacceptable! And that is exactly why we can have a fairer IMI, greater social justice and greater fiscal justice. There is the courage to tell the real estate funds « pay» so that we can then tell the families « you are relieved in your budgets ». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u155	To present Bill No. 850 / XII ( 4. ( a ) Mr Ramos Preto has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As always, the government's line of action is clear: always go beyond the troika. The 2011 Memorandum of Understanding established the obligation to assess the heritage with a forecast to increase the revenue of the IMI by 250 million euros. In 2014, the EUR 250 million target provided for in the Memorandum of Understanding was achieved and exceeded, although there is a safeguard clause that did not allow an annual increase of more than €75. Upon arrival in 2015, the forecast of revenue is more than EUR 465 million compared to 2011. It's the most brutal increase in taxes on the heritage of the last few decades. A careless observer would say that the Portuguese live in the best of the worlds. Unfortunately, however, the crisis continues. The difficulties of the Portuguese are accentuated, and the government does not want to face the harsh reality and give a break to Portuguese families. This led the PS to propose, within the budget of the State, that the safeguard clause be maintained until the value of the assessment was reached, which, in truth, was an incorrect and incomplete assessment, a Google-type assessment that did not take into account the state of preservation of buildings. PSD and CDS don't want to see reality. With this government, it is not the State that is at the service of the Portuguese, it is the Portuguese who are at the service of the government. The right has used as an alibi the Memorandum of Understanding. But was it not the Memorandum of Understanding that established that the adjustment would be made in two thirds of the expenditure side and in one third of the revenue side? So, what's the urgency, the rush to continue with this brutal increase in taxes on the estate of families? What is the motivation for continuing to reach an exhausted middle class with this greedy blood of a state that is increasingly an enemy of citizens? It is tragic that Portuguese families are faced with this brutality that does not allow Portuguese society to breathe. Therefore, the PS proposes, Madam President, that the safeguard clause be immediately restored, that the capital assessment be made directly by a body of experts empowered to do so, and that, in the product of the value of the assessments, the state of conservation of the buildings be considered. We wanted here to highlight, highlight and praise the attitude of all Portuguese municipalities which, despite the financial difficulties they face, have applied the minimum rate, in contrast with the government which does not sympathize with the difficulties of Portuguese families. It's time for them to change their course. And challenge you to vote on the Socialist Party bill, which is fair and gradual, meets the needs of citizens and does not compromise the common good. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u157	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: within the framework of the Memorandum of Understanding, the former Socialist Government undertook the Portuguese State to carry out a general review of the buildings, with a view to obtaining an additional revenue. In the name of truth, we have a duty to acknowledge that this general reassessment is required in the name of equality and fiscal equity. Unless this general reassessment occurs, we would have, as we have had for many years, two houses totally equal, in the same building, to pay completely different IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u160	However, unlike the Socialist Party, we anticipated that this general reassessment would require an additional and significant effort for Portuguese families that needed to be mitigated. Therefore, in 2011, also because the review process was not yet completed, we created a transitional safeguard clause to be in force for three years, i.e. until 2014. Unbelievably, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Socialist Party and the Left Block did not vote in favour of the safeguard clause. It was concluded that it was the general reassessment on 31 March 2012, and over two years ago, it ceased to make sense that this safeguard clause, just as we know it, if it extended over time, under the penalty of continuing to have two equal houses, in the same building, to pay completely different IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u162	It is this tax inequality that PS, PCP and BE intend to maintain with their proposals. What the PS, PCP and BE want is that 70 % of Portuguese pay IMI as a whole, which does not require the remaining 30 %, without an objective reason for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u163	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u164	But we are not surprised, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this position of opposition. It is enough to remember that PS, PCP and BE did not favour the possibility of IMI being reduced by the number of dependents, did not favour the possibility of IMI being reduced in buildings affected by the production of energy from renewable sources, the rustic buildings integrated into classified areas that provide ecosystem services and buildings with energy efficiency. Just remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that PS, PCP and BE did not vote in favour of the possibility of the liquidation of the IMI being made not in two but in three benefits. And they did not vote in favour of the possibility of exemption from the IMI for the three-year period to the buildings subject to urban rehabilitation. Finally, it is enough to remember that the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block — see, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! — they did not vote in favour of the permanent exemption from IMI to more than 50 000 low-income families in 2015 which would increase to the 300 000 already benefited from it. All of these have been proposed by the Government or by the parties of the majority! If at all this we add that 73, 5 % of municipal chambers chargeing a maximum rate of IMI are of the Portuguese Communist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u165	Forced by the government! Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u166	... and the Socialist Party I think we are all clear about who cares about families, especially the most disadvantaged, who has a sense of justice, who has responsibility and who has social sensitivity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u167	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of the IMI, which we have already discussed here several times, for example during the last Budget, is serious, because it relates to the home of people, in case they live in their own homes and not in rented houses or in other situations. Obviously, when we're talking about tax cuts, it's very easy to say popular things. I would even say that it is very easy to say populist things, because it is obvious that what any citizen wants is to pay less taxes. It's always good to pay less taxes. And we have heard here many times the idea—it is not the first, nor the second and suspect that it will not be the last — according to which the government increases taxes because it is bad, because it wants to harm families. It is obvious that this is an absolutely simplistic idea, and those who say it know that it is voluntarily spreading an important part of the matter. The text of the PS bill gives you to think, not only from the point of view of who is looking at the IMI, but from the point of view of anyone who is interested in the way the choices of all of us are made: it says that the current majority — these wicked...! — decided to follow the risk of the Memorandum of Understanding. You, the PS, signed a document that is binding and then say "the blame is on those gentlemen who chose to follow it at risk" as if that were a manual of suggestions and not a commitment we made to save the country! The truth is that this Memorandum of Understanding was taxfully saying: «To alter taxation on property with a view to increasing revenue by EUR 250 million, substantially reducing temporary exemptions for own housing. » And this is where the PS text makes me particularly restless. The truth is that the majority actually met what was agreed upon, but failed to meet the risk, because the majority introduced a safeguard clause. And it is extraordinary that it is precisely the party that has dealt with this issue without ever worrying about the safeguard clause that is now calling for the clause to continue, which has already been in force for three years. But more: it was also this majority that significantly increased the number of exemptions, which now cover 350 000 families, and it was also this majority that opened up the possibility of the chambers that so desired and can do so, those that have been well managed, lower the rate of the IMI according to the size of the family aggregate. These are important and significant changes. As Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira said well, it will be interesting to see that chambers apply, in fact, these rates, because I suspect that they are not exactly those who, in the context of political dialogue, defend this. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all talk about tax cuts, in eases, and say that it's all very easy. I remember that this need not only concerns the IMI, we would all like to come down to taxes and even say that the decline in income taxes should be a priority in relation to the fall in income taxes. As I said, we all want to lower taxes, but this is achieved with budgetary balance and economic growth. And as you speak, this majority has done, and that, yes, will allow a tax drop. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u169	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u170	Mr President, after listening to the speeches of the majority, particularly the PSD, I will go ahead with the housework badly done, because I believe that the history and the facts of this Parliament will realize that. I will refer to the main argument of the PSD, and I even hope that Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira will be able to hear because I think it is important to discuss this matter in our eyes. It is to be argued that the great concern of the majority is that in the same building there can be two families who pay a different IMI is, in fact, the most important thing in politics. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I can explain, if you leave me.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u171	The President ( Teresa Caeiro ). — Perhaps with other terms, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u172	I will explain the term, Madam President, and I would insist on it: the argument is of the most illusory that there is, because it is the creation of social envy, saying that families must be against each other to hide the obvious, and obviously they already pay all the IMI in full, real estate funds are paying half. But those are the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen did not make a single reference! The great concern is the families — poor...! — some may be paying more than others. They don't care that real estate funds may be paying much less. Now he who lives in his houses has to pay; he who does business with houses may have a 50% bill. This is the social reality that PSD and CDS defend. In fact, with these concerns we realize: what they want is "dividing to reign", what they want is to create this inequality between families, this social envy, just to save the interests of real estate funds in confusion. That is what we do not accept and that is why we do not agree. Tax equality? Justice? This is done if everyone pays, but the real estate funds do not pay, and so when Mrs Cecilia Meireles said « we liked it, but there is no money», I tell you that there is, Mrs, Mrs, going to find out where he exists, do not give this gift to real estate funds. Why does business with houses have to have more rights than people who live in houses? Oh, my God! They don't serve housing? Oh, my God! Wouldn't it be good for people to have a roof and be there? Oh, my God! So you realize why in Faro people are running out of houses, why in Amadora people are running out of houses, why throughout the country there is a pressure on the housing that this majority makes. They don't respect those who live in their homes, they prefer to do business with them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u173	Mr Ramos Preto has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Returning to our project, we always assume our responsibilities. When an increase of EUR 250 million was established in the Memorandum of Understanding, it was taken into account that, as a result of the 2004 reform, there was a need to correct distortions and inequalities between taxpayers. This is a fact. It was for the Government to promote, through domestic law, legislation, as it did, a gradual update. It's just you did for two years, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles. And it has forgotten an important matter, which the Socialist Party here proposed, which was the amendment of the IMI Code in order to take into account the state of real estate at the time of evaluation. Mrs Deputie knows perfectly well that the evaluations made following the tax reform, which made the predial contribution if it had become municipal property tax, were made by a body of specialists who considered the real value of the property on the spot, and this assessment, the result of the pressure, was made through Google, without checking the reality of the buildings, and the PS proposed several times that this should be considered. The CDS and PSD have always rejected these PS proposals. When the PS proposed in the 2014 Budget that it should be considered the extension of the safeguard clause to have effect in 2015, you did not accept that extension. I understand your proposal. Your proposal was that there should be only safeguard clauses in 2013 and 2014. Why? Because, as a result of this austerity, the fruit of this policy of going beyond the troika — which will give excellent results...! — in 2015 and 2016 there are no more deficiencies in families. What happens is that there is. However, you, who live in fantasy, do not want to see the harsh reality, do not want to see the situation of this brutal increase in taxes that you are suffocating and exaggerating the middle Portuguese class, Mrs. That's what you don't want to see! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u175	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Contrary to what Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira said here, the CFP did not vote against the introduction of the safeguard clause. The PSD and the CDS are voting and voting systematically against the proposals presented by the CFP on the IMI at the state budget. This is the truth of the facts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u177	The PCP did not vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought this proposal today because social reality requires a new safeguard clause. Let it be clear that we are not talking about the process of reassessing the property value, because it is already being dealt with and the process is already complete. What we proposed here was a new safeguard clause, following the process of assessing the buildings to be carried out, which limits the increase in the IMI which has greatly damaged and penalized workers and families in our country. Mrs. Members, I hope that it will also be clear that if there are CDU cameras in which the value of the IMI is at most, it is not by choice of these cameras, it is not by political choice, it is by imposing the policies of this government,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... because the sanitation plans, the PAEL ( Local Economy Support Programme) and the GEF ( Municipal Support Fund ) require the application of the maximum rates of the IMI!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u180	Get a better excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u181	Mrs. Members, if you want to solve this problem, release the cameras of this obligation and you will see what will be the result in each of these municipalities. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was clear in this debate that this majority, the PSD and the CDS continue to pursue a policy of 'two pesos and two measures': one for the workers, for the families, by brutalizing them with the increase of the IMI, which has created various difficulties for these families, and one for the benefit of real estate funds. In fact, this is a policy that we reject and today with this vote and with the proposal that we bring here, we once again clearly show who is on the side of the workers and the Portuguese and who is on the side of the large economic and financial groups. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u182	That concludes this item on our agenda. Before we move on to the next point, I would ask the Secretary to give an account of diplomas that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u183	Recommends that the Government promote legislative amendment allowing for increased power of engines installed on local fishing vessels ( BE ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u184	We will continue with the fourth item on our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolution No 1311 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a national emergency programme for cultural heritage and use of European funds for its financing within the framework of Strategy 2020 ( BE ) of Bill No 840 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 107 / 2001 of 8 September 2001 amending the rules for the inventory, dispatch and export of works and amending the VAT rate applicable to the restoration of cultural movable property ( PS ) — in general — and draft resolution No 1396 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures to protect Portuguese cultural heritage ( PCP ). For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that there is a law in Portugal which we should even be proud of, because it has quite good things, that nobody knew, but that in this legislation was known for the worst reasons. I am talking about the Basics of Cultural Heritage Act, the same Law that makes the Public Ministry can ask for the condemnation of the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of State for Culture, the Director-General for Cultural Heritage, PARVALOREM and PARUPS because of the scandal of Miró's works, the same Law that is not being fulfilled either, since the students of the National Conservatory have to come to the street asking to have classes without raining on their heads. The Basics of Cultural Heritage Act provides a framework for the State's responsibilities with regard to architectural and archaeological cultural heritage, but also with regard to material and immaterial cultural heritage. One problem of this Law is that many of its parts are not regulated and another problem is that this Government seems to know its existence. The Basics of Cultural Heritage Act requires that every three years a report on the status of the heritage be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic. That never happened. No government has ever fulfilled the obligation to present the state of the estate to the Assembly of the Republic, but in 2014 the regional leadership reached this local diagnostic house. It's not a structured document, but it gives you insight into what's going on. We learned that there are such serious things in Portugal, not only the case of the Conservatory, as the fact that there are structures and coverings in collapse, such as the Convent of Christ or the monastery of Alcobaça. We also learned that there are areas of heritage where nothing has ever been done and if there is still nothing done, for example at the level of industrial archaeology. Anyone looking at Portugal can judge that our memory is made of churches and palaces, but it is not. There is also the world of work, for which there has never been a plan about the heritage for their knowledge and memory. And this not to mention the immaterial heritage, in which no one has done anything, taking away the fairy and the alentejo song, because of the candidatures the heritage of humanity. Thus, the immaterial heritage disappears and we are unaware of the traditions and memory of our country. The Secretary of State of Culture had no idea so far about this. He changed the protection several times, creating a perfect confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u186	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u187	And when we asked him how it would be funding for the preservation of heritage, we learned that for the first time there is a Community framework which does not have a ton for cultural heritage – the Secretary of State for Culture said. Then he came to say something fantastic: "Let's see gold! » When a tourist walks through our country and comes to see something you find funny, perhaps he can recover it. We have an idea about our memory, our heritage, our knowledge, our identity, assuming responsibilities, not; but there may be a Chinese tourist who does this for us. It's embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The question regarding heritage is: will we be able to pass on to the next generations the legacy that previous generations have left us? The Left Block proposes that an emergency programme on heritage be made by the experts, raising the needs of the country, and also proposing that the necessary works be financed from Community funds. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u188	To present the Socialist Party bill, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents today a bill that aims to strengthen incentives for the rehabilitation and restoration of cultural heritage and, at the same time, remove barriers to a sector, the art trade, which is essential for our economy, but which is also essential for the export of our artists and our culture. These two themes, apparently, are contradictory or, better, in the lightness of the usual speeches are contradictory, but we believe that, as long as there is a coherent, reasonable and above all realistic policy and that it is not only in general, it is not only contradictory, as complementary. The issue of the regulation of the Basics of Cultural Heritage Act has already been mentioned here. There were several regulations, but there is a very specific case that relates to the temporary or definitive dispatch of creative works. In fact, it has been a hot topic in the last year—and very much today—because there have been confusions in the criteria of the Basic Law. Although the Basic Law presents a principle that, of course, we defend, which is the need for control and transparency over the dispatch of creative works which have great heritage value, a reading too comprehensively impossible that living authors who have just produced a work can export it or take it to an exhibition without having the support of the State. Mrs. Members of the majority, I think that, even in the sometimes exaggerated defence of liberalism, they realize the absurdity of the situation that it is a author to have to ask the Directorate-General of the Heritage authorization to export a work that has just produced, without the difficulty of establishing what is a creative work. Therefore, the Socialist Party proposes something very simple: they are only obliged to this communication and authorization of the Directorate-General of the Heritage works with more than 50 years and works of living authors, they have the time they have, because the author is still the master of his work. There is another issue that we consider important and that has to do with the rehabilitation of heritage. We know that there is a system of minimum VAT rate application in real estate, but only under conditions in areas defined by the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana). Now, this situation is so absurd that it makes a national monument recognized as such, provided it is not in the defined area, not able to access an incentive for its rehabilitation, and that is all the more serious when we speak in the museums collections. Museums have had successive difficulties in rehabilitating heritage, because they have a tax rate of 23 %. As you can imagine, it is a huge burden for the institutions, but also for the authorities, because the authorities are often involved in this issue. We believe that many of the collections of the Portuguese Network of Museums but also private collections—there are privates who have the generosity to make their collections available to the public as long as there is the counterpart of being collections that are visible to the general public— must be entitled to this exemption. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go into a major debate or controversy on this matter, which I believe to be consensual. I know that the Secretary of State for Culture has announced in the last two years that this issue will be regulated. Time is urgent and we're already in April. Even if Mr. Secretary of State already has a project—which I know has not yet formalized—and brings it in within the next 15 days, the chances of seeing the day and being applicable are very few. However, we have galleries, authors, creators, museums, municipalities — and I will now finish, Madam President — that is, we have a number of public and private institutions blocked because these two aspects are not resolved. We will certainly be available to consider the greater scope, according to the words of the Secretary of State, of such a bill. We believe that these two aspects are urgent and priority. As such, I hope that the majority, in the name of a hypothetical project that one day will exist and will be presented, does not limit and does not create obstacles to this diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u190	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The culture policy of the PSD Government / CDS is in sight. It is a policy for the abolition of constitutional rights and for the abolition of the State's role in safeguarding the heritage and guaranteeing those rights provided for in the Constitution. The Miró case, already referred to here today and for which the CFP has warned since the first day in this Assembly of the Republic, is very exemplary in how the Government sees the culture or, better, how the Government does so that the people do not see the culture and continue away from what is already theirs. The Miró collection is ours and the government prevents us from seeing it, even though it has already come to this House a proposal from the CFP to see that this collection could be in view of all Portuguese so that, regardless of whether or not it could be alienated, its beauty and creativity could leave something in Portugal. Mrs. Members, as has already been mentioned here, much of the problems of heritage and cultural policy in Portugal are not in the law. The Basics of Cultural Heritage Act and a set of regulations oblige the State to safeguard, value and intervene, including the property that is in the custody of private persons or that integrates private property. In addition, it implies that reports should be made not only to present reports to the Assembly of the Republic, but also surveys and priority intervention plans, and none of this has been done. The year after all, everything remains to be done, with the honourable exception of the Regional Plan of Priority Interventions of the Algarve, which was the only one to be completed, given that all the rest are still missing. at the same time, the Portuguese museums, even those that are under the direct height of the state, reserves and the espólio continue, in some cases, by inventorying or conditioning. The Machado National Museum of Castro, gem of this government, presented as the great new national museum, does not even take place to maintain its reserve in its own space and has to hire and lease outer spaces without guarantees so that reservations are taken care of. This is a policy that abandons the cultural heritage, which leaves it to the hands of the patronage and still values it—and has already been said here—as if it were to leave in the hands of private and private interests the safeguard of our history and our heritage and as if it were a great achievement of this government, thus relinquishing that responsibility. Mrs. Members, what the CFP proposes is not the policy of heritage and culture being on the backs of the economy and tourism—we already know that it is in relation to that which will accuse us of the right—, on the contrary, the CFP proposes that tourism and the economy develop by the attention and the way we live and care for our history and our heritage and not because we make our country a theme park so that tourists can come to see one or other monument very carefully, paid at the price of gold, to which the Portuguese do not have access. We therefore propose that, in addition to the Community funds, the cultural budget be strengthened, that priority intervention plans be carried out, that the survey and diagnosis be made and that an emergency programme for safeguarding cultural heritage be initiated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u192	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Conceição Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to greet the Members of the CFP, the Left Block and the PS who spoke earlier for having brought to the discussion issues related to heritage. Portugal is one of the countries that is proud to have of the richest edified, natural and immaterial heritages, many of them recognized by UNESCO as a world heritage of humanity. It's almost two dozen that are classified. In fact, it is heritage that is not of these benches, heritage that is of all Portuguese and that should hold us accountable and unite us all in this discussion and not differentiate us, because this heritage identifies us, as has already been said, as a people. Mrs. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group cannot in any way accept and accept all these catastrophic views that have been presented here. When we arrived at the government, we had to inventory more than 1000 buildings that were at risk of losing their ranking. On this we never heard a word again about the work that was done. As regards other issues which have been mentioned here today and which are within the framework of justice, I would like to say that justice belongs and that justice must be resolved. The PSD opinion was clear on this matter: it is not the Portuguese who have to pay what is costing the Portuguese not to sell the Miró. As I was saying, it is not enough to classify, it is not enough to invent, as has already been said, it is also necessary to recover, maintain and treat and also make visible. Mrs. Members, there is a reality: this government, in this short period of time, and even in very difficult times, between 2011 and 2014, invested in heritage, with Community funds, and certainly also, with the law of the Mecenato, more than 80 million euros for the recovery of heritage. What are we talking about? We are talking about the Tower of the clergy, we are talking about the building of the Chain of the Relationship of the Port, the Monastery of Santa Clara, the House of Passal, which has been for decades to have an intervention and is currently being recovered. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] You can say what you want, the reality of numbers speaks for you. Mr Alentejo spoke in the Algarve, but he forgot the specific case of Alentejo, where last year, in July, a financing protocol was signed in connection with the recovery of the estate to 16 projects, amounting to 15 million. I think this is the biggest investment in the area of culture in this region, whether we want it or not. When it is done it is because it is done, if it is not done it is because it is not done — we are already used to it. Mrs Inês de Medeiros, Mrs Inês de Medeiros, with all due respect, Mrs Deputies said—and said very well—that she knew that it was already being revised to the Heritage Law, which has to be revised. PSD doesn't like back-up reviews. And, Mrs. Member, don't be afraid, the PSD and this majority will again win the elections and will certainly review the Basics of Cultural Heritage Act. Do not doubt that, because we are the ones who have committed ourselves to it and so we are going to do so. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u194	What have you been doing for four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u195	Mrs. President. — Mr Seufert has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed here proposals from opposition parties on two slightly distinct issues, one of which is the question of heritage. Mr President, I think it is worth it, in relation to the heritage — Mrs Maria Conceição Pereira has already mentioned it — to say that there has been financial availability for works on the recovery of the heritage, and here are some examples. In particular, the Heritage Rehabilitation and Conservation Fund of the Ministry of Finance financed the aforementioned works in the Port Relation Chain. I also recall, for example, the Regional Operational Programme of the North, ON.2 which financed the works that are being taken up in the Church of Santa Clara, also in the Port - forgive me the territorial recurrence - in fact, where the national participation was reached by a private fund within the framework of the cultural patronage. I would also like to mention — Mrs Catarina Martins also did so — that in the new Programme of Community Support Frameworks 2020 there is Community funding, there is a specific line for culture and Section 17 B regulates the European Structural and Investment Funds and relates only and exclusively to the recovery, maintenance and enhancement of Portuguese cultural heritage. And it has a role of eligible operations, which is worth reading, within the framework of who should have the choice of these decisions, which are the Regional Coordination and Development Committees ( CCDR ). The CCDRs may therefore have this Community funding line for these eligible operations. Regarding the basic law and its regulations, she was in the National Association of Municipalities and in the National Council of Culture. The Government's proposal is a draft legislative decree, which will, in fact, allow — contrary to what Mrs Inês de Medeiros said — a faster processing than if it were done by means of a bill here in the Assembly of the Republic. As we know, the decree does not lack discussion in Parliament's specialty, does not lack public hearings in the Assembly of the Republic, in the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Approved by the Council of Ministers, it follows for the promulgation of Mr. President of the Republic, although it may then be sought by Parliament if the opposition parties so understand. We are satisfied with what we know. It is also the subject of this amendment of the decree-law or of that regulation that the question of living works which were mentioned here by Mrs Inês de Medeiros. As regards the Socialist Party's proposal for VAT, when we are talking about changing VAT rates, there is a fundamental and important test to be carried out: the distribution of different goods by different VAT scales is not at the discretion of the Member States, it must comply with the VAT directive. The proposal which the Socialist Party here makes does not comply with the VAT directive, so it is illegal. If Parliament approved it, it would be the subject of a European Commission procedure to the Member State for failure to comply with the VAT directive and, therefore, the Assembly of the Republic would do a bad service to the country if it approved it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u197	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the democratic debate goes through and through. In view of the noise in the Chamber, I have doubts that Mr. Members can hear each other. Therefore, on behalf of the Bureau, he asked them to make some silence so that we could hear. I take this opportunity to inform the House that you are attending the session of the Member of the French National Assembly and Vice-President of the Amizade Group Portugal-France Carlos Silva, to whom I would like to greet. [[General applause, with the members of the PS, PS, CDS and the Greens standing.]] Mrs Inês de Medeiros, Mrs Inês de Medeiros, has received a 1-and-a-half-minute transfer from the Greens Ecological Party but will understand that the Bureau will be very rigorous with the remaining 6 seconds. Madam Member, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u198	Madam President, I begin by thanking the Greens bench for its generosity and will try to be as soon as possible. In fact, we should all be concerned about the heritage, but the PSD has just said that "there must be unanimity, but we do not participate in it", so it is unanimous for others, but not for the PSD. Mrs Maria da Conceição Pereira, you can't accuse me of having made a catastrophic portrait, although I could do so because, in fact, it was enough to recall here in detail the issue of the Mirós. And you have every reason: to righteousness what is of righteousness. Only that illegality has already been assumed by the State Secretary of Culture itself—see, Mrs Deputy! — and you accepted, you knew, you were aware, you followed, you applauded and you shut up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u199	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u200	Madam President, I will be very brief. Finally, the question of urgency is extraordinary. The urgency for the majority is to wait four years to make a proposal and at the end of the four years they will say that they will wait one more because they have assumed that they will only solve the problem in the next legislature. Mr Deputy, neither the agents, nor the markets, nor the artists, nor the heritage have time for your very slow urgency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u201	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u202	Mr President, who made a catastrophic portrait of the heritage and the estate situation was the PSD, who came here, proud to tell us that he spent EUR 80 million safeguarding the heritage. Mrs. Maria Conceição Pereira, I was ashamed to come here to say that per year the PSD spends 110 years safeguarding the estate in interest of the debt, i.e. what it is spending per year in interest of the debt paid 110 years of heritage safeguard policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u203	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u204	More catastrophic portrait than the one Mrs. Deputies did I can't do. It is in fact a catastrophic situation that we are given culturally with a government that prefers to spend 110 times more on debt interest than on saving cultural heritage. But let's leave the political issue and keep an eye on what matters, ladies and gentlemen. Members: will the PSD vote against the implementation of the regional priority intervention plans, as proposed by the CFP? The PSD will vote against the development of a national programme for the preservation, study and dissemination of the cultural, material and immaterial program, as proposed by the CFP? Will the PSD vote against the possibility of using Community funds in the field of culture, as proposed by the CFP? Will the PSD vote against efforts to reinforce the State budget for culture for next year, as the CFP proposes? And will the PSD vote against the availability of reports from regional cultural directions on the heritage, reserves and the espólio of museums?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u205	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u206	We understand that they vote against the recommendation of the CFP to revoke the municipality, because what this government really wants is to destroy culture, but voting against all the other items only proves even more so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u207	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how difficult this debate is? It is that we arrive here and speak of heritage as memory, as knowledge, what builds us up, what we are all, and the responsibility we have for future generations in relation to what has been left to us by past generations and you are talking about inaugurations. You say: « This has been inaugurated here», « it has been done there»... The CCDR, which does not even have anyone democratically elected, does not even have any heritage technicians, will decide how many openings it will do. Heritage is not a scenario for your openings or cocktails. When we speak of heritage, we speak of knowledge, we speak of memory, we speak of something that is of all and must be respected. That is why I find it very difficult to understand how someone can vote against the proposal of the Left Block, which is precisely putting those who know about heritage, which is not me, it is not the ladies. Members, the guardianship of the estate and the academy to make an emergency programme on what is being destroyed. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is now destroyed is no longer coming back, because the heritage that dies afterwards can no longer be sought there, it is finished, it is not for future generations. So what we're proposing is that anyone who knows how to run an emergency program...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u209	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u210	I'll only take five seconds, Madam President. As I said, what we propose is that anyone who knows how to carry out a programme of what is urgent and that we then assume this programme and find the means to finance it. This, yes, is to accept that heritage is a responsibility of all and of all; this, yes, is to make a consequent proposal; this, yes, is to respond to what is needed. Heritage is not a matter of cocktails, it is even a matter of memory and knowledge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u211	Mrs. Members, let us move to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of Bill No 855 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates the young pass ( The Greens), generally, and draft resolutions 1397 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce school passes ( PS ), 1399 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Return the discount of the 4 /NP 18 pass, extending it to all children and young people up to 18 years ( BE) and 1401 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Repay the discount of the pass below 23, extending it to all higher education students up to 23 years. To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that The Greens bring today the discussion, which aims to propose the creation of the young pass, is a project that, to be implemented, will have an extraordinarily relevant environmental and social impact. Of course, when we talk about climate change and the mitigation of climate change, we should take into account that the transport sector, particularly road transport, for which individual transport makes a huge contribution, is the sector which has increased most in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore urgent to take action at the level of mitigation on road transport. And a fundamental measure is to make the transition from the use of individual transport, particularly in large urban centres, to collective transport. However, the creation of a young pass is an important step precisely in this objective, in order to make a discount on the title of transport for young people in relation to the standard fare of the social pass in order to encourage the use of collective transport. This has an immediate gain for now, because there are more users in collective transport, there is a greater incentive for this fact, but it also has medium and long-term effects to the extent that, by getting used to young people, this new generation, to the use of collective transport, leads to that, subsequently, there is no need for the search for individual transport and therefore to transform the logic of what is undesirable again. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this project is a fundamental contribution to climate change mitigation, to measures in this regard, but also, as I said, it has an extremely relevant social impact. We are in an extremely difficult situation, accentuated by the tragic measures taken by the PSD/CDS Government in relation to the budgets of the Portuguese families, and this project is obviously relieved, at some point, particularly in what people spend on transport, which is very, very much, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. This bill has this social impact, which we would like to point out. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u213	To present the Socialist Party's initiative, Mr. Rui Pedro Duarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the initiatives under discussion by the Green Party and the Block of Left, on such an important subject for Portuguese families and, in particular, for all those who have been rightly beneficiaries of these social passes until 2012 and who have since left themselves, by political option and would bear the present government. Thus, the Socialist Party again brings a resolution on this subject, being repeated, because it has already presented two initiatives in order to reintroduce the policy of school social passes aimed at Portuguese youth, students of basic and secondary education and students of higher education, in conjunction with the policy that many municipalities have already developed to support young students, because they are replaced, precisely, by what would be a responsibility and a duty of government, to support young people and families in their education assignments. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there were anyone in the government or in the majority who thought that the country would be better off as people were better, I would say that, through the social scenario of Portuguese young people, the gross and historical 35% unemployment affecting them, the compromising levels of emigration of about 200,000 young people in the last four years, the overwhelming record rate of young people who neither study nor work — around 233,000 young people in this situation today, in our country — and the insulting and unworthy levels of poverty, which already exceed 25%, the obligation of a government to implement a social pass policy, a policy aimed at supporting families with their children's education and having school passes as a priority of indirect social action policy. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are bringing here today is not only the recurrence of an initiative that we consider essential to equal opportunities in access to education, but also the call for social justice in support of education and young students in our country, while at the same time making an effort to rebalance the budgets and charges of families with their children's education, in fact, in what the Government repeatedly says is a priority, but nothing is seen, which is the maintenance of young people in the education system, in the system of qualifications, ensuring that an investment is being made in future generations of our country. The truth is that, if this would be natural logic, we also know that the only logic that persists, over recent times, is that of the « cost what it costs ». And the cost logic costing the elimination of these student mobility incentive programmes and represented a brutally penalizing option for families, from a social point of view, with increases, in some cases, of more than 50 % in transport costs or charges. But it is also a clear option of retreating from the support that must be given to young students both in basic education and in secondary education—and, in this regard, I reiterate the particular aspect of the interior areas, where schools are often much more distant, and therefore this additional support is most justified—and also in higher education, being brutally penalizing, not only because they no longer have this support, but because the rules for the allocation of social security grants are already penalizing themselves. When Portuguese families have lower incomes available and Portuguese universities have the highest level of tips in Europe, this is a double penalty scenario for higher education students. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say that what is within our reach and what is left for us in this debate is to appeal to the fact that there is some justice in this area, not neglecting the environmental aspects mentioned here, because, from the point of view of transport policy, it is a brutally penalizing option.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u215	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u216	I'm done now, Madam President. If the majority do not find other reasons that encourage you to vote in favour of these initiatives, I just want to leave two new reasons for you to vote in favour, and they are recent, they are fresh, they are not good, but they are fresh. in the last quarter, the number of discouraged young people...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u217	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u218	I shall conclude, Madam President. I was referring to the fact that, in the last quarter, the number of discouraged young people shot at 21%. That is why we are talking about 85 000 young people who are discouraged and a young unemployment rate which in recent months has not stopped growing. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if they do not find other reasons that encourage them to vote in favour of this initiative, these two are or seem to be sufficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u219	To present the Left Block initiative, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Birth policies », « environmental concerns » and « family visas » were expressions that we heard either by the PSD, or by the CDS, before the campaign, during the campaign and after the campaign, when they were already government. Support for birth, on the part of this government, has been translated into cuts in family allowance, cuts in ISR, cuts in unemployment allowance, precariousness and increased school costs. Environmental concerns inevitably ended up in taxes and taxes, particularly in plastic bags. The CDS' family visa does not pass a tragic anecdotal that will remain for the party's history that did not fulfill what he promised in the campaign. What we propose here is not truly innovative, there already exists in most countries and has already existed in Portugal, but it is unknown from this government. I am referring to this pilgrimage idea that public policy is also done for the positive, also encouraging behaviors and not just punishing. There are other ways of making public policies other than raising taxes, cutting social support or cutting State spending. The end of the 50 % discount passes for young students resulted in the budget weight of transport doubled for many families, especially in urban centres and on the outskirts of urban centres. And this has two separate results. For families who have cars, it's up to them to use the car. What is the consequence? Good, more money, more gasoline, more pollution, more traffic in cities, more chaos in traffic organization. For families that don't have a car, the result is less money for everything else, and transport has an unproductive weight in the budget. A family with two children living on the outskirts of a large city spends 30% of its budget on transport. This does harm, yes, other expenses, this impoverishs these families. So what we are proposing here is simply a basic public policy measure: all students are entitled to a school pass that allows them to use public transport without prejudice to the family budget, with advantages for society as a whole, because it promotes quality of life, better environmental conditions, social cohesion, mobility, finally, there is one without end of reasons why this is a good public policy, in fact, that is why it exists in many countries and has already existed in Portugal. What we propose here is so simply, and it is so obvious, putting back the discounts for students in transport passes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u221	Mr Bruno Inácio also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, various proposals are under discussion, either from the Green Party or from the Socialist Party or from the Left Block. The bill that the Green Party brings to us presents two major arguments, one of which is false and the other is, at least, curious. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u223	The first concerns the rules and how changes in the rules of the passes have in some way affected the mobility of young people. This is fake! And it is false, because the government, in the peak of the crisis and when the country was actually going through its worst situation, had the social sensitivity to, through the creation of the Social Pass +, ensure that those who needed most could have access to discounts in public transport. This has been accomplished! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u224	Then a second argument, which, not being false, is at least curious, has to do with climate change. The Greens Ecological Party uses climate change as appropriate: now the change is greater, but the change is smaller. A few weeks ago, when we discussed here the green tax diplomas, where was the Green Party? I wasn't! Curious! I wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u225	Either he's deaf, or he's blind!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u226	But let's talk about the social passes and what really matters, in particular the one that has been the effort of this government. Let's talk about social justice, because social justice is giving discounts up to 60% to families with lower resources. But let's quantify, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about 32 million trips, we're talking about 550 000 monthly transport tickets, we're talking about 60 000 people per year in the metropolitan areas. But let us also talk about the democratization of access, which is being achieved by the policy of this government, through the legal regime for the transport of passengers, which we are debating in this House. This diploma will bring extended social support to the whole country and not only to metropolitan areas, as it has so far. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] And to support the whole country is to take it to the most sensitive, low-density areas of population, which so far had no support, to extend it to the whole country, because we are all equal. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] These two measures I have mentioned here, and I have told you - of course - of Portugal Porta-a-Porta, represent an investment of EUR 35 million, investment of the State budget which was only possible thanks to an enormous effort to rebalance the operation of public transport undertakings, which was achieved thanks to the policy of this Government. This is called support for those who need it most. Supporting those who need the most is giving to those who need and depending on the socioeconomic condition and not age, because they are younger or older. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u227	Allow me, too, to conclude, a word on the Socialist Party's draft resolution. The Socialist Party is at that stage in which it promises everything without saying how much it costs or how much it pays. It is the true and perfect square of the circle, but this was expectable. Somehow, it can be seen that the Left Block presents this proposal, but the Socialist Party would expect another type of responsibility. It is strange that this legislative initiative is being recovered because the former Government of the Socialist Party has left a budgetary hole of EUR 25 million, given that it considered this same initiative in the budget of the State, with a cut of 50 % in support for young people,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u228	... but then there was no legislative impact. The PS is in an intense stage of cultivation: it sows promises to reap victories, but the truth is that this...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u229	Mr. Deputies, you've finished your time. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u230	I will now finish, Madam President. As I was saying, the PS is in an intense stage of cultivation: it sows promises to reap victories, but this intense crop will only give you defeat in the next electoral act. I conclude by saying the following: taxpayers' money is the taxpayers' money, it is not the state, and it must be redistributed by those who need it most. That's what we're doing with this policy! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u231	Mr Seufert also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the issue that is being discussed today, namely the creation of passes for young people, I believe that there are two types of approaches that can be made: one is to view social policy as a policy that should support those who need, because it does not meet certain criteria at the level of family, capital, economic autonomy; another is to say that this does not matter, age is a job or is not yet a job and everyone, regardless of their social condition, deserves access to a policy that, it must be said, costs money to all taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u233	It's tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u234	To make sure that the creation of such a pass does not cost taxpayers money, it is... Well, it is not original, and Mr Bruno Inácio reminded him, because that is how the Socialist Party legislate, that is, this government was already in full command in December 2011 when it had to pay to transport companies, because of what the Socialist Party promised, but did not pay, social passes, a total value of 52 million euros. Mr Bruno Inácio referred to 25 million, but that is the value of a two-pass. But there are two: it is the pass below 23 and it is the pass 4 /NP 18. It is EUR 52 million! [[Pause.]] Mr Rui Pedro Duarte laughed, but I should explain this laugh to the young people of today who are paying the debt you have left! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] The steps that you have given us are paying you, Mr. Don't laugh that this is very serious. This is the form of the Socialist Party to make politics. The Socialist Party makes politics today for today's votes so that some will come, then, to pay. That's not serious, sir! And you should not laugh at the budgetary irresponsibility of your party. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth mentioning that the Social Pass +, which exists last year, covered a number of families and travels and is properly budgeted — I know this is not very common, but it is absolutely true. Let us also say now that, as regards the debt of the transport sector, a remarkable recovery work has been done that does not endanger the sustainability of this sector in the future, but what is happening, which is the extension of the public transport service throughout the territory, allows the Social Pass + today to be a reality of a young person with social needs, regardless of living in Porto, Lisbon or in a land of the interior. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u235	Finally, I find it strange that the Socialist Party is now presenting a proposal on passes in higher education, when, at the state budget, it presented proposal 415 - C, which withdrew exemptions or discounts in social passes to students in higher education. The Socialist Party has forgotten — and, by the way, it was in the time of Minister Mariano Gago, and it was not even in the time of our government — that ended with the steps of social action in higher education, there were no more steps. In the Socialist Party's proposal, it was said that for the students receiving step A there was a 60% discount and for the rest there was a 50% discount. As there is no higher education student in step A, the 60% discount did not apply to any one, but that is what currently applies to all higher education students who have school social action! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, even more extraordinary was that at the time we warned this situation during the debate, because this proposal had even been withdrawn and handed over here in plenary to be voted on, and not only did the Socialist Party vote in favour but also the CFP and the Block, which did an "extraordinary" work! If it were not the majority to argue that social action in higher education continues to guarantee a 60 % discount, it would have been eliminated on a proposal from the Socialist Party. It's extraordinary, in every way! [[CDS-PP and PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u236	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the Greens Ecological Party for bringing this discussion on transport passes for young people to plenary. It is indeed important, because in our country today, families, children and young people are faced with a situation that is deeply unfair about the exorbitant cost of transport. Listening to the PSD and CDS here, we seem to have to thank the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u238	They must!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u239	...the fact that thousands of students in this country have left out of support for transport. I would almost say, what would happen to the young people and this country without this government? Oh, my God! Now, Mr Bruno Inácio, of the PSD, for us it would certainly be a fairer and more developed country if it did not have a PSD government ahead. [[PCP applause.]] What you didn't say or didn't mean here was that the profound limitation on young people's access to transport support makes in this country a family in which, for example, the father receives €630, his wife is unemployed and has a child does not have any kind of support for the social pass, because, honourable Member, the only support that this government gives is to a family that survives, I repeat, survives, in a family income of €500. This is below the poverty line and shows well who you are committed to and who this government rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u241	Rule for those who need it most!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u242	The truth is, today, any child in this country who is over four years old pays the same pass as any adult. [[Protests by PSD Member Bruno Inácio.]] Any child in Lisbon pays the pass €35 and, in a family with four people, only in the municipality of Lisbon and if we take into account only the Metro and Carris pass, it is € 140 in a family income!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u243	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u244	That's unacceptable!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u245	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u246	Today, a young student in Porto who has to move from Vila do Conde to the university, pays pass 74 €, in addition to all other costs. This is a good example of who this government is and who it is privileged to rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u247	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u248	That is why we understand that this situation is unacceptable and that is why we have come to submit several times that students who are on step A and step B, and therefore survive, survive in families with income up to €419, are entitled to the pass and that everyone else has a 50% discount. No favour is being given to young people in this country by ensuring that they receive 50 % support in the pass. Favours, in this country, this government makes the bank, the bankers who manage the banks, creating very difficult difficulties. Then, yes, they don't cry a penny that they deliver to the banks! But when it comes to protecting the rights of citizens, particularly the rights of young people, there is a balance between the public accounts! For the PCP there is no doubt: we are not with the bankers; we are with the youth, we are with the workers and the people, because our commitment is with the values of April, it is not with the bank! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares ( PSD ) : — It's the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u249	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u250	The intervention of the Left Block follows. Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When Mr Bruno Inácio, from the PSD, says that the end of the passes did not affect mobility, he is right. For many young people, it has not affected mobility, because these young people now take advantage of student passes in Germany, the United Kingdom and many other European Union countries where these young people emigrated. For all other young people, the end of the passes has affected mobility. And don't throw us off the discounts: the discounts are for the miserable, they're for families that don't have more than 500 € / month to survive! Yes, many poor people are left out! Only the social insensitivity of this government is that you don't see this and you think a family with more than 500 € is rich enough and so well you can pay hundreds and so much euros per month! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u252	Also forget that public transport is not for the poorest, public transport is for everyone! It is a way of life, it is a bet in the future, in the quality of the country, in environmental quality, in mobility! And forget that the redistribution is made in taxes! That's why a person who earns more taxes and a person who earns less taxes, but we all have access to the same rights. It is called this, Mr. Commissioner, equality! This is what is called equality: everyone gives according to it; we all have access to the same public services. It's a very different idea than the one PSD and CDS have. Now, a final note, Mr. Michael Seufert : what is not serious is to come here to say that the debt of the transport system is due to social passes and passes for young people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u253	part of it, you owe it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u254	... when we all know that the debt of the transport system is due to years, years and years of budgeting, including by PSD/CDS governments,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...when we all know that transport debt is due to speculative swaps, negotiated and paid by your Minister of Finance! Therefore, they are not now to blame for the steps that allow mobility and guarantee equality in society. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u255	The Greens follow up. Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u256	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular, Mr Bruno Inácio : It seems he wanted to play with the arguments of The Greens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u257	Toy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u258	Coming from Mrs. Deputy...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u259	... make a chalice, let's say so, with the arguments that The Greens present in their bill, but I mean - you didn't hit one! He didn't hit one! But, Mr, usually when there is a lack of arguments, it is not quite right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u261	The honourable Member has come to say that the end of student passes has not affected the mobility of students and young people. I don't know which country you live in or if you, perhaps, like to nebula the reality so you don't see it, you don't care. But, Mr President, you know that in such a way you have restricted the universe of the beneficiaries of social action at school that many families and many students, who have real financial difficulties, cannot be covered by social action at school! Because you kicked us out of the system! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u262	They didn't want to know about your difficulties! And do you now say that those who have the most difficulties are covered by your charity in the system? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u263	It's not charity!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u264	No, sir, you're not! You have left many poor young people out of the system! So it has affected the mobility of young people and brutally affected family budgets, there is no doubt about it! After that, you also wanted to play with the history of climate change. Mr President, have you been in the discussions on environmental taxation?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u265	I've been, I've been!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u266	So if you were, I'm sorry but you were distracted! Because, by chance, it was precisely on the subject of mobility, it was precisely in relation to the need for a new paradigm for collective transport, of collective mobility, which The Greens focused on environmental taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u267	You've been distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u268	You know why? Let us see if you have distracted yourself in such a way that you have not realized that the environmental taxation proposed by this government has only one objective: to raise more taxes on Portuguese! It has no environmental objectives. And it has left out what is fundamental in a structure of today's environmental thinking, which is precisely the matter of collective mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u269	What about plastic bags? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u270	What a fortune, Mr. Deputies! You've either been distracted or you haven't played the right way! I would like to reaffirm, Madam President, even to conclude, that this Greens project has enormous environmental and social advantages. And here we must not choose, fingering, who should contribute to this collective mobility and to these environmental objectives, because we are all like a people that we must build.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u271	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u272	I will finish, Madam President. Then, take on the young layer and transport it, encourage it to collective mobility is fundamental in the short, medium and long term. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u273	With the intervention of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we concluded the joint discussion of Bill No. 855 / XII ( 4. ( a ), in general, and draft resolutions 1397 / XII ( PS ), 1399 / XII ( BE) and 1401 / XII ( BE ). The following point concerns draft resolution No 1406 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the performance assessment system in the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ) and to which no time for discussion are allocated. We therefore follow up to point 7, which consists of the assessment of motion for a resolution No 98 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court, signed in Brussels on 19 February 2013. In order to appreciate this motion for a resolution, two minutes were allocated by consensus to each parliamentary group and to the Government. As it should be, since the motion for a resolution has the authority of the Government, for an intervention, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs has the floor, which I take advantage of to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u274	President of the Assembly of the Republic, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members: motion for a resolution No 98 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) submitted to this Assembly by the Government proposes the approval of the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court. The creation of a single patent system is a question which has been discussed within the European Union since the 1970s, because of the need for reduced costs associated with patenting and harmonizing the interpretation of industrial property rules in the European area. It is undeniable that the competitiveness of the European economy depends increasingly on the innovation and knowledge produced by companies and institutions dedicated to research and development activities in Europe. This dossier was also one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union in 2007. Portugal has since stood alongside countries with the highest number of patents registered, such as Germany, France and the Nordic countries, in a proactive attitude towards innovation in business and universities. In December 2012, an understanding was finally reached between 25 Member States, resulting in a legislative package relating to the European Union's unitary patent protection system, which established the so-called 'European unitary effect patent'. This new system translates into a unitary patent which will be granted centrally by the European Patent Organisation and which will then have uniform and valid protection at the same time in the Member States, without the need for partial validation and reduction of associated costs, in particular with regard to translations, since it uses the language regime of that organization, in which the patent is granted on the basis of one of the three working languages — English, French and German — being the claims translated into the other two languages. With this Agreement, that language regime was further improved by introducing various elements of commitment that seek to ensure multilingualism of the European Union, in particular with the possibility of submitting patent applications in all languages of the Union, reimbursement of translation costs to the official languages of the European Patent Organisation and compulsory translation of the patent in case of dispute, and with universal and free access to automatic translation tools with informational character. In fact, Portuguese was the first language to benefit from these tools. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In parallel with the establishment of a European unitary patent, the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court was signed in February 2013 and establishes an exclusive court of competence for the resolution of conflicts on European patents. With the institution of this Court, which provides for first instance bodies with central, local and regional divisions and also an appeal court, companies cease to dispute patent issues in the national courts of the various Member States, since the judicial decisions of this Court take effect throughout the European Union, having exclusive competence for the resolution of disputes in this area. This Agreement thus allows to reduce the associated costs for active users of the patent system, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, and to ensure greater legal certainty in dealing with the legal issues of industrial property. On the other hand, it favours the specialization of national patent judges, promoting the exchange of knowledge and the sharing of experiences between judges in the various Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u275	It was good, it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u276	However, the proposed system also has the possibility of using alternative dispute resolution goods on Portugal's initiative, ensuring greater accessibility for SMEs through voluntary recourse to a mediation and arbitration centre, which will be shared between Lisbon and Ljubljana, in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u277	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u278	I conclude now, Madam President. With this jurisdictional system, European companies avoid increased costs for active users of the patent system, especially for SMEs, and it is also guaranteed greater legal certainty that contradictory decisions issued by different national courts on the same patent will be avoided. Furthermore, Member States which have signed this international agreement may ensure the location in their territories of local and regional divisions, and to this end courts which have already existed at national level may be used. The approval of the patent dossier is considered by the European Commission as a privileged opportunity for Member States to benefit from the contribution, knowledge and technological innovation to increasing the competitiveness and economic growth of European companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u279	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u280	Finally, at a time when the commitment to innovation and research is essential for our country to be able to gain competitiveness in international markets, Portugal has a duty to participate actively in this European effort. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u281	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs: This motion for a resolution is the conclusion of a seriously harmful process of national interest. And I say « seriously harmful to the national interest», because it harms the country at the cultural level, because it devalues Portuguese at the scientific level, harms the country at the economic level and also now with an unacceptable limitation to the sovereignty of the Portuguese State. With the London Agreement and the unitary patent regime, the Portuguese language was devalued in scientific terms, because it was determined that the Portuguese language, from that point on, would no longer be used in scientific terms for the registration of patents. This damage was added to another one, which is the injury that causes Portuguese small and medium-sized enterprises to have to discuss fundamental issues for their survival in other countries' languages, and is subject to scientific and technological advances that companies from other countries, in particular those that have as their official language English, French or German. This process, with the London Agreement and the unitary patent regime, has at the time meant a dramatic damage to the national economy, to the sovereignty of the Portuguese State and, above all, at the cultural level, to the defence and valorisation which should be made of the Portuguese language, but which, rather, has become detrimental to our language. Mr Minister, this motion for a resolution for accession to the Unified Patent Court, which they now bring, means unacceptable injury to the sovereignty of the Portuguese State. The question is as simple as this, Minister : today, Portuguese companies that want to discuss patent-related problems, particularly patents that are imposed by multinationals, discuss this in Portugal, in Portuguese courts, using the national language. With the accession to this Agreement on the Unified Patent Court, what Portuguese companies will have to do is discuss these disputes in Paris, Berlin or London, in a language other than theirs, in languages that are imposed on them, in ways that do not control and at costs that will be dramatic for the generality of small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Minister, there is an article in our Constitution, Article 20. the, which guarantees access to effective law and judicial protection and which is clearly called into question with this text which the Government now proposes that the Assembly of the Republic ratify. The ratification of this Agreement means an unacceptable injury to the sovereignty of the Portuguese State and calls into question the structural principles of our legal and constitutional order. There is at least one obligation that has not been met. With regard to matters relating to the judicial organization, there is a legal obligation to hear the Supreme Council of the Magistracy and the Superior Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The CFP submitted a proposal for at least that legal obligation to be respected, but the majority refused. Still, he got to 1. the Commission and in the agenda of next Wednesday the discussion of this opinion requested by the CFP is scheduled. We have now tabled a request to the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic to bring this proposal down to committee for 30 days so that at least compulsory hearings can be made. With the Government's consent and with the consent of the majority today, it is still possible to save compliance with the law and at least ensure that these mandatory hearings are carried out. Mr Minister, at least we want the law to be complied with and at least the constitutional implications of this proposal to be discussed, without entailing our substantive consideration of the injury caused by this Agreement to the country. This means that the CFP will be fighting against ratification of this Agreement by the Portuguese State, will be fighting for the defence of language, science, economics, small and medium-sized enterprises and national sovereignty at all costs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u283	Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u284	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Members : Recognizing the importance of the matter and the advantages of a single jurisdiction and the benefits of a registration and validation of patents within the European Union, it is understood that, in view of a broad agreement that includes several countries, there is a need for convergence and even concessions, provided that national interests are safeguarded and that there are unequivocal effective gains to the contrasting parties. Despite this almost unanimous subscription of the 25 countries referred to by the Minister in enhanced cooperation, what is true is that of the 13 countries which are required to enter this Agreement only seven have ratified it. of these seven countries, most are small countries and are really being pressured by the European Commission, as Portugal seems to be. in fact, there is no hurry at this time to sign this Agreement under these conditions as set out by the CFP. There is no reason to be in this front platoon again before some aspects are clarified that are not yet clear enough. The problems for Portuguese companies that this Agreement poses are derived from the nature of Portuguese economic fabric. Portugal occupies 46. the place in the world ranking with only 26 European patents granted in 2013, far from the European average, which are 1000 patents, and even further away from the Germans, which are 13 000, which shows that this Agreement is intended and clearly favours countries with the highest number of validated patents, Germany, France and England, which are precisely the countries with the most export of patents and which are home to multinationals in the information technology, telecommunications, automobiles, mobiles, etc. In Portugal, it may encourage patenting exporting companies to simplify the procedures, costs, etc. but, as in Portugal, companies under these conditions are, above all, multinationals, the advantages, Mr Minister, are currently virtually null and void. This agreement would make more sense if Europe's growth trajectory, which was predicted in the mid-decade, had realized that Portugal had continued to wager in science, research, that Europe had continued to grow homogenely rather than concentrate wealth in the same countries. In Portugal there are 1 000 056 companies, of which micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are 99, 8 % of the total, and any national or Community measure which applies to our territory, which does not take account of the typology of our economic fabric and which is not accompanied by specific measures to safeguard the same specificity will be aimed at failure. It is therefore absolutely essential, Madam President, that the Government establish the local division of the Unified Patent Court in Lisbon, which is also provided for in the Agreement, to minimize the worsening factors for SMEs resulting from the application of this Agreement, taking into account the nature of our business fabric. This is the only way to avoid the damage caused by this Agreement and to ensure that litigation is done in a language other than Portuguese. We did our part. In 2007 we secured the arbitration centre in Portugal. This government should do its part, which is to guarantee a local court. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u285	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u286	Madam President, Minister, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from the Left Block we see with great concern this motion for a resolution, because it means, in practice, a government transfer to the interests of the large multinationals, "throwing down the carpet" national interests, particularly in the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. First and foremost in terms of access to justice, any company, any individual citizen who wants to deal with these matters will have to go outside the country with the inherent costs. Therefore, to ensure the arbitration centre in Portugal, which would be the minimum, the basic nor, even that, the Government was able to do. This clearly contrasts with the principle that all citizens, all companies, can and should have access to effective law and judicial protection. The Government, in the course of this motion for a resolution, forgets the Constitution, the guarantees which the law must give to all individual citizens or constituted as companies and also forgets the economic value that law and proximity to law also have in these matters. That is why the Government insists on this motion for a resolution at the end of the legislature is indeed an attack on national interests, a devaluation of an important sector of our economy and an unequivocal concession to the interests of multinationals, so we will not follow this motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u287	The Bureau is awaiting the inclusion of other speakers. [[Pause.]] Mr António Rodrigues has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u288	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs Deputies, Mrs Members: The motion for a resolution before us could have two perspectives: or I would like to re-edit a discussion that was set up in the previous parliamentary term on patents, something the CFP has tried to do here today, or turn to the true treaty that is here on the table, which is the creation of a Unified Patent Court. That's all you're in charge of! And even that, as we have already been reminded today, it is important to make it clear that it does not violate the Portuguese court order or prevent Portuguese companies from having access, on the contrary. by establishing in Portugal a local division of the Unified Patent Court, direct access is given to Portuguese companies so that they can assess their claims specifically regarding conflict in relation to patents,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u289	... but more than that, it also makes a decision here valid for the universe of all States that subscribe to this same matter. at the same time, it will also avoid the second criticism made on this subject, to distance the use of Portuguese. If this Court is located in Portugal, it will certainly be supported in the Portuguese language, so there is no damage of any kind either in the field of culture or in the field of science or jurisdiction. So all the criticisms that have been made fall to the ground. But on the contrary, we can see the advantages. And the advantages are: in addition to having, in the first instance, a court that manages and judges these matters in Portugal — and it was important for someone to refer to the number of actions which are placed annually in Portuguese courts in relation to patents, which is a manifestly small number — not by the action of this government but earlier, an arbitration centre was established for the whole European system, which has one of its headquarters precisely in Portugal. That is to say, we have not only a national jurisdiction, as we will have a jurisdiction of appeal, through arbitration not only used by Portuguese but also by a number of other European States, which will have to resort to Lisbon in order to be able to use this same jurisdictional system.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u290	And he's done a lot of work!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u291	I am glad you have done a lot of work, Mr José Magalhães, but it has resulted, of which Portuguese and Portuguese companies can benefit. It was necessary for the Socialist Party to have the courage today to vote in favour of this. If, in the previous legislation, it was beneficial for Portugal, it will also be beneficial for Portuguese companies from today on. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u292	That is why we support this solution, because, unlike others, we do not change our opinion according to the conveniences. We maintain our view, which, in this case, is in favour, because from here we can benefit Portuguese companies, and we hope that others will also accompany us in the future. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u293	I now give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u294	Madam President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Of course, the question is, in a way, raised on this subject. I just wanted to highlight two or three aspects that seem important to me. The first to highlight, as has just been said by Mr António Rodrigues, that we are not talking about a previous discussion, starring, to a very large extent, by the Socialist Party itself and concerning the patent regime itself,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u295	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u296	... but in the question of the Unified Court and in respect of that same Court. With regard to some of the criticisms we have heard, including the subject matter and the argument from the linguistic point of view, however, if we are — as has been said here, and well, by the Minister — before an agreement signed by so many countries, an agreement that was corresponding to a European claim of more than 40 years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u297	With Spain outside!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u298	... Mr. João Oliveira, as you will certainly recognize, it is appropriate to have the notion that each party has to get close to reaching the same agreement. We cannot want to start with an agreement, start with a European solution being closed, without leaving, completely marked only by what can be the Portuguese position.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u299	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u300	It's not pensable! And the existence of the Agreement, from a European point of view, in our opinion, of course, is a positive fact. I would like to point out that, in this same agreement — and it is not now, it is historic — Portugal has achieved important aspects. The mediation and arbitration centre, based in Lisbon, has already been mentioned here, which is an important Portuguese victory, as a State, in this same process and which may even be a guarantee of Portuguese participation in this matter. On the other hand, even with regard to a central issue, the question of language, this motion for a resolution tells us - whether it is so or not - and, in my view, it seems quite clear - that multilingualism is guaranteed. Why? Because precisely in line with the position that Portugal has defended, the possibility of submitting patent applications can be made in any of the European languages and small and medium-sized enterprises, which could be most harmed, will be reimbursed for the costs, in particular the translation costs associated with this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u301	To be of value in other countries you cannot, Mr President! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u302	Therefore, we can say that it may not be the ideal and that it may not be the best of the worlds, but the essential objectives are protected, the interest of Portuguese companies is protected. We have the notion—as, moreover, was said here by Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas—that Portugal is not, or has not, until today, been, with the previous system, a huge producer of patents. It is normal for countries with higher production, greater initiative and that have dominated this matter also to take advantage of their position, but the position of small and medium-sized Portuguese companies is somehow assured and obviously only for them and, in particular, for the Portuguese economy, which becomes an export economy, which becomes an economy of internationalisation, the existence of the European model is an advantage rather than a disadvantage. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u303	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, and therefore, thanking all the speakers in this debate, I give an end to the general discussion of the motion for a resolution No 98 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). We will move on to the voting period. First of all, I ask the Services to prepare the electronic system for Mr. Members may register and proceed with the verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 209 presences, to which are added 4 ( PS Member Inês de Medeiros, PSD Deputies Cristovão Norte and Luís Leite Ramos and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia ), making 213 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. First of all, as is shown in the vote script, we shall proceed after we have read the vote of three votes of regret. I'll report to you. Members of the Government will remain in the Chamber, associating themselves with the votes of regret. Thus, we started by voting No 265 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of journalist Tolentino de Nóbrega ( PS ). Mrs. Secretary, Mrs. Rosa Albertz, will do you the favor of reading. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u304	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Tolentino de Nóbrega died in the morning of Tuesday, April 7, 2015. A life dedicated to ‘fearless journalism’, to an ‘admirable resistance’ initiated at the age of 20 in Funchal Trade, which transits to the Funchal News Diário de Noticias do Funchal in 1974. Another 20 years of persistence, independence and courage recognised yesterday and today by professional politicians and colleagues. The professor of Descriptive Geometry, graduated from the Higher School of Plastic Arts of Madeira, fell in love with graphic advances and with the team that founded the Public Journal in 1990. I would like to write in a simple, concise and objective way, without the adjectives that today qualify his life: courageous, independent, persistent, tireless, discreet, factual, stripped, resilient. In 2006 he was one of six journalists decorated with the rank of Commander of the Order of Infante D. Henrique by then President of the Republic, Dr. Jorge Sampaio. In 1998 he had already received the Gazeta Prize. ‘Without a free press there is no democracy,’ he said on the occasion. Since early on, he has also been involved in the regulation of the profession, having served as secretary of the General Assembly of the Journalists'Union ( 1985 / 86 ) and vice-president of the General Assembly ( 1996 / 97 ), as well as a member of the General Council of the Union, between 2002 and 2012. I now included, as an alternate, the list of the Journalists' Professional Wallet Commission, a function for which I had already been elected, also as an alternate, between 2008 and 2011. He deserved the respect of all Democrats and lovers of freedom in recognized and difficult circumstances. He managed to ennoble his role as a journalist. He had a ‘ Quixote heroism ’ or ‘ the ability to tell reality with as much truth as possible and without depending on the official version you want to impose on people, ’ describe professional friends and colleagues. Tolentino de Nobrega was 62 years old, more than 40 journalism. The members of the Assembly of the Republic lend their deepest regret to the family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u305	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 265 / XII ( 4 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 266 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of the filmmaker Manoel de Oliveira ( PSD, PS, PCP, CDS-PP, BE and Os Verdes ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Raúl de Almeida, to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u306	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last April 2, 2015, Manoel de Oliveira, tireless artist, odd figure of Portuguese culture who, at the age of 106, was the oldest filmmaker in active throughout the world. Manuel Candido Pinto de Oliveira was born on December 11, 1908, in the parish of Cedofeita, in Porto, 13 years after the brothers Lumière invented the cinema. It was his father who made him discover the films of Charlie Chaplin and Marx Linder and later allowed him to acquire his first camera at the age of 18. It is with her that, in 1931, she made her first documentary, still silent, about the workers of the riverside area of her hometown Douro, Faina Fluvial. This first work is exhibited at the Fifth International Congress of Criticism in Lisbon in September 1931, where it was received with a huge ‘ kicked ’. Manoel de Oliveira is then accused of ‘showing foreign people barefoot, broken and sad condition’. But among the foreign sayings was the great Italian playwright Luigi Pirandello and the French critic Émile Vuillermoz who, on the contrary, admire the master of the young filmmaker. Pirandello even said, ironing out, who didn't know that in Portugal he was applauding with his feet. This premiere is in a way pre-monitoring of duality which, as the critic Sérgio Andrade well writes, will accompany the entire career of the director: « the disregard and even some contempt by the audiences in Portugal, the applause and progressive reverence abroad, especially in France and Italy ». At the age of 20, Manoel de Oliveira enrolled in the School of Actors of Cinema, founded by Rino Lupi, and in 1933 participated as an actor in The Song of Lisbon, by Cottinelli Telmo, one of the first Portuguese sound films. If since very early cinema is almost as inevitable to the young Manoel Oliveira Bohemian, it is also distinguished as a sportsman, having been national jump champion to the pole, athlete from the Sport Club of Porto and car racer. In 1942, Manoel de Oliveira filmed his first long film Aniki Bobó, portrait of childhood in the raw and poor environment of Ribeira do Porto. The film is a commercial failure in Portugal but once again attracts the attention of international commentators, who consider the director a path of neorealism in cinema to report, with delicacy and humor, the confrontation of the social classes present up to the level of children. Aniki Bobó is today one of the most iconic films of his career and Portuguese cinema. in the early 1960s, the director finally obtained institutional support for the production of two films: the Act of Spring, in 1962, and The Hunting, in 1963. After a projection of the Spring Act, personal and unexpected registration of a popular representation of the Passion of Christ, Manoel de Oliveira is arrested by PIDE and spends 10 days in Aljube. It takes almost 10 years for Manoel de Oliveira to be able to film again, returning to fiction with the Past and the Present, a satire of Portuguese society in 1971 and, from 1975 onwards, the pace with which it filmes vehemently accelerates, as if to recover the three lost decades. Manoel de Oliveira is the director of the word, not only by the recurrent adaptation of novels of great authors, with emphasis on collaboration with Agustina Bessa-Luís, but also by the way the film gives it the primacy on the great stage of life that is cinema. he made more than 50 films, among them: Benilde or the Virgin Mother, Francisca, No or the Vã Gloría de Mandar, The Divine Comedy, ValeAbraão and, more recently, The Strange Case of Angelica and The Gebo and the Shadow. In addition to the group of actors who remained faithful to him and accompanied him in the last 30 years of his career, such as Luís Miguel Cintra, Diogo Doria or Leonor Silveira, among many others, Manoel de Oliveira worked with great figures from the world cinema, such as Marcello Mastroianni, Catherine Deneuve, Michel Piccoli or John Malkovich. He was distinguished with the most prestigious national and international awards, notably with Palma de Gold de Carreira at the International Cannes Festival, at the Venice Biennale with the Golden Lion, at the Ibero-American Film Festival, at the Gold Globes of the Foreign Press Association in Hollywood, at the Montreal Festival, at the International Tokyo Film Festival, at the Berlin Film Festival, at the Fantasport, at the International Figueira da Foz Festival, among many others. throughout the career he received various decorations, such as the Commander of the Military Order of Sant’Iago da Espada, the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Sant’Iago da Espada, the Great Cruz of the Order of Infante D. Henrique, having been the last of the French Legion of Honor, awarded last year. He believed that ‘ cinema, like all the arts, is only useful for reproduction. ’ For this reason, during the 80 years of career, Manoel de Oliveira sought to tell the whole complexity of life, where the feelings and passions that dictate our individual and collective history, in conquests and defeats are crossed. But I wanted to do it simply because I thought ‘ to be simple also means to be clear, and to be clear is to bring to the surface what is deeper. ’ Contrary to what has often been said and despite international recognition, Manoel de Oliveira has always suffered from the low visibility of his work in Portugal. I never missed an opportunity to say so. At the time of the celebration of his 100 years, he regretted talking more about his age than about his films. But he never accepted limitations on his creative freedom, nor on those of his film-makers. He considered that the work of a director was essentially an unnegotiable ‘ethical act’. But the cinema was also what kept him alive: ‘Stop working is to die, if I get the cinema I die’, he said to explain his longevity. His last work was short film The Old of the Restelo, which premiered on the day he completed 106 years, on 11 December 2014. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, pays due tribute to the master who, with his art, gave both to the country and presents to his family and friends the most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u307	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now turn to the reading of vote No 267 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Despite the death of José da Silva Lopes, economist, former Deputy Minister and former Governor of Banco de Portugal ( PS, BE, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP and Os Verdes ). Mr Duarte Pacheco will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u308	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : He died on Thursday, April 2, at the age of 82, José da Silva Lopes. Natural of Ourem, from the parish of Seiza, José da Silva Lopes was one of the most prominent Portuguese economists of the 20th century. Graduate in Economics and Finance, by the Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences, began a brilliant career in the Ministry of Economics in 1955. As a technician of the Ministry of Economics he played an active role in the negotiations for the entry of Portugal into the European Free Trade Association — EFTA and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade between 1955 and 1969. In 1965 it has its first passage through the private bank as a consultant to the Banco Lisboa & Azores. A few years later, he joined the Board of Directors of the General Deposit Box, which he held between 1969 and 1974, while at the same time directing the Office of Studies and Planning of the Ministry of Finance. He was also Deputy Head of Free Trade Agreement negotiations with the European Economic Community of 1972. He was Governor of Banco de Portugal, who held office between 1975 and 1980. He incorporated the first four post-25 April governments, between May 1974 and August 1975, acting as Secretary of State for Finance, Minister of Finance and Minister for Foreign Trade. He was also Minister of Finance and Plan III, Constitutional Government in 1978. He was a consultant at the General Deposit Box between 1980 and 1991. Administrator and Representative of Portugal to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, between 1991 and 1993, was also the occasional consultant of the World Bank, having led or participated in missions of that Bank which studied and made recommendations on problems of the banking and financial sector in Turkey, Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Egypt, Yugoslavia, Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, the Philippines, Colombia, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Angola and Kenya. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic between 1985 and 1987, elected on the lists of the Democratic Renewal Party. Between 1988 and 1995, he then chaired the Committee on Fiscal and Financial Systems Reform, and was President of the Economic and Social Council, between 1996 and 2003. He was also a candidate for the Municipal Assembly of Ourém, in 2009, integrating the lists of the Socialist Party. He also had a relevant intervention in university education, having been regent of various annual or semi-annual courses on economic integration, Portuguese economy, monetary economy and financial system in the following schools: Higher Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences (ICSEF ), Institute of Social Sciences and Overseas Policy, Institute of Social Sciences, Faculty of Economics of the Portuguese Catholic University in Lisbon and Porto and at the Faculty of Economics of the New University of Lisbon. He chaired the Management Board of the Montepio General, between 2004 and 2008. He published two books and dozens of articles on economic, financial and social issues and often contributed to the media with articles, declarations, comments and interviews. He was also an inherent member of the Banco de Portugal Advisory Council. He was thanked in 2003 by Mr. President of the Republic with the Great Cross of the Order of Christ for his 48-year-old activity as an economist, almost always at the service of the State. It has also received relevant decorations from Spain, France and Brazil. Always concerned about the future of the country, he was one of the subscribers of the 74 Manifesto. With enormous humility and simplicity, a sense of humor very clear and having a high economic and general culture, José da Silva Lopes stands as an example for all those who deprived him. To the grieving family, the Assembly of the Republic presents its deepest condolences.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u309	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on this regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I was now asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of these three votes, we would have kept a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I congratulate the members of the Government who are withdrawing from the plenary and will continue with the votes. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1392/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Norway ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote by the plenary of the votes, in the speciality held in the Commission, of the final text presented by the National Defence Commission on the proposal for a law No 269 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Law on the Programming of Military Infrastructures. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the National Defence Commission on the proposal for a law. Mrs. Members, as you know, this matter requires electronic voting and the absolute majority approval of Members in effective office in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Pause.]] the result of the vote will be implicitly the quorum. Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[When put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 190 votes in favour (PSD, PS and CDS-PP), 20 votes against (PCP, BE and Os Verdes) and 1 abstention (PSD).]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the adoption by the plenary of the Commission, in particular the final text presented by the National Defence Commission on the proposal for a law No 270 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Military Programming Act. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the National Defence Commission on the proposal for a law. As you know, this also requires the electronic vote and the absolute majority approval of Members in effective office in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 123 votes in favour (PSD and CDS-PP), 20 votes against (PCP, BE and Os Verdes) and 68 abstentions (PS).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u310	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u311	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u312	Mr President, it is in order to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings to provide the following information: in the electronic vote preceding the latter and concerning the final text on the proposal for a law No 269 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), an abstention from a PSD Member, appeared on the screen. At the time of the vote on the sitting, no Member of the PSD parliamentary group has expressed this intention, and we believe it will have been manifestly late. It's just that it's impossible to identify, until the services can't give us the time the relationship of the gentlemen. Members in the electronic vote. So we wanted to leave this point here, which we will then bring to the Bureau, to find out whether there was indeed a mistake or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u313	Mr President, the Bureau tends, on a matter of public knowledge, to identify voters and their way of voting. [[Pause.]] Mr President, I already have the information of the services that it is a lapse. As I do not vote, the services have interpreted the fact that I do not vote as an abstention. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on the proposal for a law No 291/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into Order of Officials and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 173 / 98 of 26 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. Let us now, in general, vote on Bill No. 292 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Official Auditors, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 293 / XII ( 4 ) follows. ( a ) — Turns the Order of Official Accounting Technicians into the Order of Certified Accountants, and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 452 / 99 of 5 November, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 303 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP, the BE and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1292 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Valuing the Formosa River and clarifying the legal status of the Culatra core ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS, the PCP and the BE and the abstention of the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1308 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — for the recognition of the social, economic and cultural value of the urban nuclei of the boreholes of the Formosa river and immediate suspension of the demolition of dwellings in Culatra, Hangares, Farol, Ancão peninsula and islands of the Formosa river ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1394 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recognition of the economic and cultural value of the existing population nuclei on the islands and islands of the Formosa River and on the Ancão Peninsula ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1398 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around the requalification and enhancement of the Formosa River ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u314	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u315	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u316	Mr President, it is to inform you that, on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Elsa Cordeiro, Mr Cristovão Norte and Mr Bruno Inácio, on the vote of the last four draft resolutions, namely paragraphs 1292 / XII ( 4. ( a ), PSD and CDS-PP, 1308 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), of the PCP, 1394 / XII ( 4. ( a ), BE, and 1398 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) of the PS, we will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u317	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. [[At the moment, demonstrations of public protest were recorded in the galleries.]] No one can manifest himself in the galleries. He asked for the immediate withdrawal of the people who are manifesting themselves from the galleries. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officials of the Authority who are eager to get the people who are manifesting out of the galleries. This is Parliament, it's not the street! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u318	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u319	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u320	To call on the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u321	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u322	Madam President, I think you will almost guess what the PSD Parliamentary Group's board has to say once again one week after the last incident, about what just happened. The gallery behind our bench is the gallery for Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. in the last two weeks, this has happened to the guests of some parliamentary group, so we ask once again that, in a free and spontaneous way, as again, be said who invited. Madam President, no member of this House can or should be subject to this type of coercion, not so little, in the performance of his duties, insult and slander. This is a circumstance that has to end at once. This is the appeal we make to the President, on behalf of the good functioning and respect for Parliamentary dignity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u323	Mr. Hugo Soares, I certainly guessed what I was going to talk about. I think we all guessed. I wanted to ask the ladies. Members who do not delay this incident, because we must not give rise to an illegal, irregular and contrary act by Parliament. This issue has to be dealt with seriously at the Leaders' Conference. If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please follow this request, I would not give the floor to anyone else.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u324	Madam President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u325	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u326	Mr President, as far as we think we know, the guests who were in the galleries and who spoke out had been invited by the PSD, so, like what we did last week, we liked to know whether the PSD confirmed this or not. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u327	Mr. Deputy, I am indifferent to knowing who invites you. What is not indifferent to me is the solution to the matter. Mr. Member, Hugo Lopes Soares, ask for the floor again for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u328	Madam President, I am very sorry and I believe that what you asked the Members to do is all the more meaningful, since we underline this kind of incident leads to their happening again. But we cannot make clear the insinuation that Mr João Oliveira has just made. The honourable Members who spoke out and defamed and insulted all the Members present in this Chamber were not invited by the PSD Parliamentary Group. Let this be clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u329	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go on quietly. I think we owe this to the country. We will resume the voting, generally voting on Bill No. 835 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended fourth Act No 5 / 98 of 31 January, establishing a new model for the appointment of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the other members of the Board of Directors ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and with abstentions from the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall also vote, in general, on Bill No. 849 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a safeguard clause for the purposes of municipal property tax and repeals the exemption granted to real estate funds ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] The general vote on Bill No 851 / XII ( 4 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Recurs the tax benefits of real estate funds in the payment of municipal property tax ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 852 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary suspension of the increase in municipal property tax in 2015 ( BE). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the CFP, BE and Les Verdes.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 853 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enter the annual automatic update of the value of housing for the purposes of paying municipal property tax for greater social justice ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the PS and BE and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 854 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introduction of reduced municipal tax rates on buildings for own housing ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u330	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u331	Mr President, it is to inform that, with regard to the vote on draft laws Nos 853 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) and 854 / XII ( 4. ( a ) we shall present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u332	Mrs. Deputy, it is registered at the Bureau. We will now vote in general on Bill No. 850 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater fiscal equity and greater social justice in the Code of Municipal Property Tax ( Twenty-sixth amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287/2003 of 12 November 2003 ) ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] Mr António Proa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u333	Madam President, it is to be announced that on my behalf and on behalf of a group of PSD Members elected by Lisbon, we will present a statement of vote on the votes of the Lein projects 849, 851, 852, 853, 8554 and 850 / XII ( 4 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u334	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We are now voting on draft resolution No 1311 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of a national emergency programme for cultural heritage and use of European funds for its financing within the framework of the 2020 ( BE) strategy. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We continue with the general vote on Bill No. 840 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — — The first amendment is made to Law No 107 / 2001 of 8 September 2001 amending the rules for the inventory, dispatch and export of works and amending the VAT rate applicable to the restoration of cultural movable property ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1396 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures to protect Portuguese cultural heritage ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] The general vote on Bill No. 855 / XII ( 4 ) was followed. ( a ) — Create the young pass (The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the CFP, the BE and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1397 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — — Recommends that the Government reintroduce school passes ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-P and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 1399 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recharge the discount on the 4 /NP 18 pass, extending it to all children and young people up to 18 years of age ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1401 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Return the discount of the pass below 23, extending it to all students in higher education up to 23 years, including ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1406 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the performance assessment system in the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on motion for a resolution No 98 / XII ( 4 ) in a general vote. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court, signed in Brussels on 19 February 2013. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the PCP, BE, The Greens and the CDS-PP Member José Ribeiro and Castro and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u335	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u336	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u337	Madam President, it is to inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u338	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça also asked for the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u339	Madam President, it is also to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u340	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Conceição Bessa Ruão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u341	Madam President, it is to announce that on my own behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Deputies André Pardal, António Prôa, Graça Mota, João Lobo, Maria Ester Vargas, Maria José Castelo Branco, Maria Manuela Tender, Mário Magalhães and Paula Gonçalves, will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u342	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 1384 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the public management of the Hospital de Santo Tirso ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1388 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — by maintaining the Hospital de Santo Tirso under public management ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u343	Madam President, will you excuse me for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u344	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u345	Madam President, it is to announce that, in relation to the vote on the last two draft resolutions, one from the BE and the other from the CFP, I and some Members elected by the electoral circle of Porto will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u346	It is registered, Mrs Andreia Neto. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 273 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 73 / 2009 of 12 August establishing the conditions and procedures to be applied to ensure interoperability between information systems of criminal police bodies, and the second amendment to Law No 49 / 2008 of 27 August approving the Law on the Organisation of Criminal Investigation. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from the CFP, BE and Os Verdes.]] The vote on an application by the PSD and the CDS-PP shall follow, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Public Works, without a vote of seven days, of Bill No 287 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Public Passenger Transport Service. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Social Security and Labour on the proposal for a law No 266 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the establishment and operation of professional companies which are subject to professional public associations. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will also take note of a report and opinion of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u347	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the request of Coimbra County, Central Court, 1. the Section for Labour, Case No 556 / 15.3T8CBR, the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Maurício Marques ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-10.u348	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how today's work is completed. The next plenary session will be held next Wednesday, 15 April, for 15 hours, with the joint discussion of the following bills (generally) and draft resolutions: Bill No. 813 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of pregnant, puerperous or lactating women in the Labour Code ( BE ) ; Bill No. 814 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Equal parenthood for the protection of women in maternity and employment ( BE ) ; Bill No. 815 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Reimposes rights in access to family allowance ( BE); draft resolution No 1298 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Social responses to early childhood ( BE) ; draft resolution No 997 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the National Health Service ensure the preservation of gametes of patients at risk of infertility due to oncological treatments ( BE ) draft resolution No 1414 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the rotavirus vaccine in the national vaccination programme ( BE); Bill No. 856 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the freeness and dematerialization of school textbooks ( The Greens); Bill No. 857 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — stipulates that no child is deprived of a family doctor ( The Greens); Bill No. 858 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — reintroduce Pass 4 - 18 and Pass Sub-23 to all children and young students(The Greens) ; Bill No. 816 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 861 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Create a school pass ( PCP ) ; Bill No. 862 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defines the certification and adoption arrangements for school textbooks, ensuring their freeness ( PCP ) ; Bill No. 863 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish the National Programme for Combating Labour Precurity and Illegal Contraction ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 864 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — extends the conditions for access and allocation of prenatal and family allowance, ensuring the universality of this social benefit to all children and young people ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1417 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen primary health care in children's health and the provision of care to children and young people ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1418 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen the means of the Working Conditions Authority and create a National Plan to Combat Discrimination in the Role of Maternity and Paternity ( PCP ) ; draft resolution No 1419 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures to enforce sexual and reproductive rights ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1420 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of a public network of quality child support equipment at affordable and socially fair prices ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1421 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — ensuring accessibility to infertility treatments ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1423 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the rental of young people with a view to their effective emancipation ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1424 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Integrated Birth Incentive Solutions ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 866 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works by establishing a new working time modality ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 867 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 868 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a mechanism for the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 869 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the universality of pre-school education for children from the age of 4 years and makes the first amendment to Law No 85 / 2009 of 27 August ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 870 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of the Interdisciplinary Standing Special Committee for Birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 871 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code by introducing a 50 % vehicle tax exemption for large families ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1425 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme, which analyses the relevance of inclusion in the same Type B Meningococcal vaccine programme and studies the effectiveness of vaccination against paediatric gastroenteritis caused by Rotavirus ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1426 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen support for children and the family ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends a cross-sectional set of measures to deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 872 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 176/2003 of 2 August 2003 approving the legal regime for the protection of family charges by increasing the amount paid at the levels of family allowance and prenatal allowance and the increase of single-parent families ( PS ) ; Bill No. 873 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August by densifying the scheme of loans for school textbooks and by ensuring its linkage with the school social action scheme in basic and secondary schools and with the competences of local authorities in the field ( PS ) ; Bill No. 874 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended 10th Act No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the revision of the Labour Code by amending the scheme applicable to the group time bank ( PS ) ; Bill No. 875 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November proposing the weighting of the number of dependents for the purposes of the exemption of moderate rates ( PS ) ; Bill No. 876 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, redefining the calculation of the family quota ( PS ) ; Bill No. 877 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended third Act No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 at 35 hours a week as a normal period of work in the civil service ( PS ) ; draft resolution No 1428 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes an extended debate in society on the problem of birth and submits concrete proposals to the Government for the replacement of measures promoting reconciliation between family life and personal life ( PS ) ; draft resolution No 1429 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government, within the framework of birth policies, the establishment of an agency that monitors public family policies to replace the former Family Policy Promotion Commission and the former Family Advisory Council ( PS ). I wish you very good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, to the honourable Members. Journalists and Mrs. Officials. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 4 minutes.]]
