ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government — whom I welcome — Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 13 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, they have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by the President, the drafts of lein.o 849 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a safeguard clause for the purposes of IMI ( municipal property tax ) and repeals the exemption granted to real estate funds ( PCP ), 850 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introducing greater fiscal fairness and greater social justice in the Code of Municipal Property Tax ( twenty-sixth amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax, approved by Decree-Law No 287/2003 of 12 November 2003 ) ( PS ), 851 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recurs the tax benefits of real estate funds in the payment of municipal property tax ( IMI) ( BE ), 852 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary suspension of the increase in IMI ( municipal property tax) in 2015 ( BE), 853 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Enter the annual automatic update of the housing value for the purposes of paying municipal property tax ( IMI) for greater social justice ( BE), 854 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Introduction of reduced rates of IMI ( municipal property tax) for own housing ( BE) and 855 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Create the young pass (The Greens ). In addition, draft resolutions Nos 1392 / XII ( 4 ) were introduced into the Bureau. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Norway ( President of the HR ), 1395 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Suspension of lay-off action in the function houses of the Republican National Guard at the Fifth Gate, Aid parish, in Lisbon ( PCP ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, 1396 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures to protect Portuguese cultural heritage ( PCP ), 1397 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce school passes ( PS ), 1398 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of actions around requalification and valuation of the Formosa River ( PS ), 1399 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Return the 4 / 18 discount, extending it to all children and young people up to 18 years of age ( BE), 1400 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Place a 50 % subsidy on transport licences for retirees, seniors, pensioners and children ( BE ), lower than 6. the Commission, 1401 / XII ( 4. a ) — Return the discount of the pass sub23, extending it to all students of higher education up to the age of 23, including ( BE), 1402 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government recognise the right of residents of the district Pinhal de Negraeiros and Sales of Azeiton to the property of their houses ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1403 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure social action in the municipality of Sixal five days a week ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 1404 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends the urgent construction of the health centre in Santa Iria de Azóia, in the municipality of Loures ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 1406 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the performance assessment system in the Assembly of the Republic ( PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ). It's all Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u3	Mrs. Teresa Caeiro, please replace me for a few moments. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u4	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin our work and we have as our first item on the agenda the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 291/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into Order of Officials and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 173 / 98 of 26 June 2013 in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 292 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Official Auditors, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and 293 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Turns the Order of Official Accounting Technicians into the Order of Certified Accountants and amends its Statute, approved by Decree-Law No 452 / 99 of 5 November in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. The Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor to present the bills.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the beginning of the term of office, the Government presented as one of its objectives of the programme for the legislature increasing the competitiveness of the country, in particular by simplifying and speeding up licensing and preconditioning schemes prior to the access to and pursuit of activities and certain professions. Through the three legislative proposals currently under discussion, the Government takes another step towards achieving this objective, strengthening, modernizing and updating three key professional public associations for the robustness and confidence of Portuguese business fabric and complying with the European services directive on professional qualifications and regulated professions. Professional public associations are a fundamental element for the country's economy, and they are recognised by the Constitution as autonomy and administrative decentralization to ensure, on the one hand, the defence and safeguarding of the public interest and the fundamental rights of citizens and, on the other hand, the self-regulation of professions whose exercise requires technical independence. Furthermore, at the time of the European Services Directive, the Member States of the European Union became bound up with a set of principles and criteria which should be observed by the access and exercise regimes of service activities and certain professions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u6	Mr. Secretary of State, I apologize for interrupting you. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we are at the beginning of the session and there is always a typical burb in these initial minutes, but I was asking the House to make some silence so that we can hear the Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary of State, once again, I apologize. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. This directive aims to facilitate the exercise of fundamental freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services while ensuring greater transparency and information to consumers and providing them with a wider, diversified and higher quality offer. Despite the importance of professional public associations, they cannot be confused with mere mechanisms for limiting access and the exercise of certain professions through excessive regulation, but should be instruments to provide security, confidence and competitiveness to the national market. In order to achieve a compromise as comprehensive as possible, the three proposals for review of the Statutes, today under consideration, have been developed from the outset with the active participation of their professional public associations. These proposals were also analysed within the inter-ministerial working group to monitor the application of the new legal regime of professional public associations, according to which the opinions of all relevant entities were assessed. Having completed the work, collected the contributions and obtained broad consensus from the orders of the ROC(official auditors), the TOC (official auditors) and the Chamber of Official Dispatchers, the Government has presented to this Assembly of the Republic, first of all, a proposal for a statute of the Order of Official Account Reviewers, highlighting in particular improvements in the system of access to the profession, eliminating requirements which were not justified or proportionate, namely specialized basic training, and, secondly, the system of access to professionals from other countries in defence of professional recognition acquired in another Member State, deepening in particular, and in this case, the principle of reciprocity. Secondly, a proposal transforming the Order of Official Accounting Techniques into the Order of Certified Accountants and amending its Statute, making it more aligned with the other Member States of the European Union and providing the Order with a system of access to the most modern and transparent profession, in particular with regard to professional internships, the system of incompatibility and the structure of professional colleges. Finally, and thirdly, the Government also submits a proposal that transforms the currently designated Chamber of Official Dispatchers into the Order of Official Dispatchers. Indeed, given the new challenges of international trade, as well as the regulatory legislative requirements and procedures with which official dispatchers are faced daily, this proposal is essential for this profession to be able to face the current economic paradigm and the challenges of the future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three proposals presented by the Government today have the agreement in principle of the professional public associations involved and reaffirm the Government's commitment to pursue the path of strengthening the country's competitiveness through increased self-regulation and greater liberalisation of access to regulated professions. With the introduction of these bills, the Government takes the first step towards the modernisation of professional public associations in Portugal, also fulfilling the European Services Directive and opening the way for a set of professional orders covering many thousands of professionals working in Portugal. In conclusion, I would like to point out the opening of the Government to find solutions that allow for an extended consensus on these proposals for revision of the Statutes. during the discussion with the professional orders in question, the government has from the outset expressed a strong availability for consensus. it maintains a position of openness and negotiating spirit with all political and social actors to ensure, above all, the legal stability of future statutes and the legal stability of the professional activity of their professionals. In addition to the social consensus that was possible during the drafting of the proposed laws now presented, the Government expresses its full availability for a dialogue and constructive discussion on the final model of professional order statutes that we have discussed in Parliament today. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, the President, Maria da Assumption Esteves, was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u8	Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Mr. Deputies Bruno Dias, PCP, and João Paulo Viegas, CDS-PP. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u9	Mr President, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, I would like to ask two very specific questions. One has to do with the involvement and participation of the professional associations themselves in this legislative process. The Secretary of State informs us that these proposals deserve the agreement of their associations in principle. We are aware of this now, because that is not what is written in the declarations sent by the Government in the course of the legislative process. I would like to ask you if there is anything else, from the point of view of the participation and involvement of these entities, in addition to these laconic statements of three lines that say only that the prior right of hearing has been granted, which has been done. In addition, what other contributions exist, that other participations exist? We know that, in the case of official auditors, there are concrete proposals, but we would like to see what is involved and what is involved. Moreover, in the case of official account technicians, neither the question of the right of impediment regime, which is set out in the second paragraph of the document, shall be covered by the Government in the proposed law. Secondly, on the fundamental question of the role of these professional associations, the State recognises the specificity of these professions and the importance of their technical independence and self-regulation, so that it considers the full justification of professional associations with autonomy and administrative decentralization and hence the existence of these orders and the creation of the order of official dispatchers. But the proposed laws frame the exercise of these professions in such a way that it is possible for companies of professionals that may be composed of people who do not belong to this profession, even in a framework that may be conducive to relations of economic dependence and other circumstances that raise doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u10	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u11	These doubts may also be raised on the question of the full and effective fulfilment of such self-regulation which will then have no responsibility to develop on behalf of the State. Therefore, the question we have left, Mr Secretary of State, is how it fits this option to allow professional companies — whether they are certified accountants, whether they are official auditors or official auditors — in which other professions, other interests, of other realities may be within the limit of the percentage of participation of these associations. How do they fit into this potential, framework of other inter-relationships and even economic dependences in which other interests may arise and other issues may prevail? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u12	Since Mr. Secretary of State informed the Bureau that he wishes to answer together, he has the floor to put his question, Mr. João Paulo Viegas.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u13	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the CDS has always understood that dialogue with the institutions of the sector is crucial for the creation of appropriate legislation, as we always understand that social dialogue is indispensable for the necessary advances. It was pleased that we found that, in relation to the proposed law No 291/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ), which transforms the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into the Order of Official Dispatchers and amends its Statute, the Government proceeded to the hearing of the Chamber of Official Dispatchers, the National Data Protection Commission and the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds. Similarly, in Bill No. 292 / XII ( 4. ( a ), approving the new Statute of the Order of Official Account Supervisors, the Government has heard the Order of Official Account Supervisors, the National Audit Supervisory Board and the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u15	Also, as regards Bill No 293 / XII ( 4. ( a ), which transforms the Order of Official Accounting Technicians into the Order of Certified Accountants, the Government has listened to the Order of Official Accounting Technicians and the Insurance Supervision Authority and Pension Funds. With regard to Bill No 291 / XII ( 4. a ), adds that the preliminary draft of the Statute of the Order of Official Dispatchers was drawn up by the professional public association representative of the official dispatchers. Mr Secretary of State, welcoming this way of doing politics, I ask you very directly what was the relevance of these hearings and, in particular, in the case of Bill No 291/ XII ( 4 ). a ), as a classification of the commitment of professional public associations and the role they had to carry out the operation of sensible and reasonable proposals of law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u16	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u17	Mr President, on the issues raised by Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP, I reiterate what I said in the initial speech. There is an agreement in principle with regard to the proposals which are presented today. Why? Because the Government was concerned that, from the outset, it involved the professional orders and the Chamber of Official Dispatchers in the drafting of the bills that are presented today, these same entities participated in the level of the working groups that were set up for this purpose and, therefore, there was indeed a participation from the beginning of these same orders in the drafting of the statutes that we present today. But I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that the Government believes that this proposal is an initial one, it is already a broad social consensus with its professionals, but that it is possible to improve, it is possible to go further in the political dialogue in Parliament. That is why, in my speech, I called for a constructive spirit in order to find broad consensus that will, above all, safeguard the legal stability of the future statutes of these orders. It is very important for the stability of the activity of these professionals that these statutes are approved, that they deserve an extended consensus from Parliament and that they remain with the same version for many good years. With regard to the question which you have raised, the possibility of companies opening up capital to professionals who are not professionals in these fields, I would like to say to you that, as I have also had the opportunity to mention in the initial intervention, the revision of these Statutes is also done to comply with the European Services Directive. This directive has as a general rule the opening of capital to other professionals, other than those in the branch. There may be limitations, but the general rule is that of opening. The existence of multidisciplinary societies, which is basically what you are asking for, is a common reality in many legal systems in Europe. In Portugal, less so, we are taking this first step, but this reality exists in many legal systems in Europe, in the most varied professions and in the most varied economic activities. In accordance with the European Directive, therefore, the Government proposes, in these proposed legislation to Parliament, the possibility of, in fact, forming multidisciplinary societies with limited openness to professionals from other activities. Finally, replying to the question put by the Member of the CDS, I just wanted to recall that in these three bills, in addition to their representative professional public associations, the National Data Protection Commission, the National Audit Supervisory Board and the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds were also heard. For internal entities, the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations, the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training and the Directorate-General for Economic Activities were heard. There was, in fact, a great effort to ensure that there was consistent technical work on the final proposal presented in this Parliament, but I reiterate once again that one thing is the social consensus and the technical consistency of the proposal, another thing is the desirable extended political consensus, which would be very important if this Parliament could achieve it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u18	The Bureau records several entries for intervention by the PS of Mr Nuno Sá and the PSD of Mrs Isilda Aguincha. For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u19	Madam President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for all members of the Chamber of Official Dispatchers, the Order of Official Accountants and the Chamber of Official Accountants, recognizing the relevance of their professional functions and competences. We intend to create an opportunity for further improvements and progress with the new orders of the official dispatchers and certified accountants, as well as with the new statutes of these and the official auditors. I address those who work as official auditors, as official auditors and as official account technicians because they are professions that continue relevant public interests defended by the requirements in the access and exercise of the profession, in the development of technical standards and specific ethical principles and rules with an autonomous disciplinary regime. The Socialist Party again recognizes and marks the invaluable contribution to the development of our society provided by these institutions and its members in the daily exercise of the profession. The social dynamics and the demands of the modern world, on the one hand, the ambition and freedom of professionals, on the other hand, are coupled with the requirements to adequately accompany our integration into the European Union which, at its borders, advocates the free movement of people, goods and services, in harmony with the fact that this serves the fundamental objective of more economic and social development in Europe. Thus, we understand the agreement reached before the European Union, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) and the International Monetary Fund ( IMF ), which has committed the Portuguese State to developing a series of legislative initiatives to improve the recognition of qualifications, remove restrictions on services, improve regulated and unregulated legislation on regulated professions, eliminate barriers and unwarranted difficulties in the exercise of professions. We do not understand how the government in this area has taken so long to have these and similar initiatives of the last hour, such initiatives that it alone is responsible for. The Government, according to an assumed programme, should have advanced with all these initiatives at most by the end of the first quarter of 2012. instead, the government was very quick to take measures that produced an incomparable social devastation and a destruction of decades of developments in the world of work. The government, the PSD and the CDS-PP were very quick to cut and decrease wages. They were quick to eliminate holidays and holidays. They were quick to increase working hours. They were quick to increase contributions and taxes. They were very quick to reduce workers' rights, such as redundancies. They were very quick to attack collective bargaining, to end Portuguese training and qualification programmes. The government was very quick to promote precariousness, ease of dismissal and undeserving professional internships. In other words, the government was very fast in all initiatives to bring back and deregulate work and professions in Portugal, but it was slow, very slow to adopt any other measures that would improve them. As early as January 2013, the Government presented the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, as provided for in Law No 2 / 2013. following the approval of this Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January, the Government had 90 days to submit to the Assembly of the Republic the proposed amendments to the Statutes of the already established Public Associations and other legislation applicable to the exercise of the profession necessary for the adaptation to this new regime. This is truly regrettable, it is inconceivable, especially after the statement of intention of the Secretary of State that he wishes to seek the maximum of broad consensus in this House. This statement does not correspond to the timing, opportunity and time that the Government has allowed for this discussion, particularly in the field of expertise. It is not acceptable that the Government has not complied with this 90-day deadline at least. We have spent more than two years on the approval of Law No 2/2013 and now, two years late, at the end of the Parliament—and we all know that we have a marathon there, I would say, of new orders and of new professional decrees to discuss here, in Parliament—the Government comes in a hurry, putting forward proposals and creating serious limits for Parliament to have the minimum time needed for an analysis, discussion, presentation of proposals and a vote in accordance with the desirable conditions for the complexity, relevance and public interest of these matters, as well as with the time needed for weighing such important issues for thousands of Portuguese workers. I repeat the importance of these public associations and their professionals, underlining the incorrect, misleading and contradictory form of Mr. Secretary of State's statements in order to seek parliamentary consensus and stability in this legislation, which required time to do this work and this political consultation, as the Government inappropriately submits these proposals to Parliament. The Socialist Party, despite the government's bad opportunity, will not fail to do serious and rigorous work for the benefit of such important professions for our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u20	In the meantime, they signed up to intervene. Mr. Artur Rêgo, Bruno Dias and Pedro Roque. by PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Isilda Aguincha.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was supposed to be on professional public associations. But, in fact, the government fulfills obligations, incalculable inheritances that the Socialist Party has left us — to all Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u22	The PS does not remember this, omits this part; but, criticises, criticizes. I'm sorry! Professional orders are public associations of public law, with autonomy recognized by the Constitution, and they aim to promote self-regulation, on the one hand, and decentralization, on the other hand, in defending and safeguarding the public interest and the fundamental rights of citizens. They are institutions with origin in professional corporations, we can say that they come from the Middle Ages, when representatives of the various professions joined in several Portuguese cities aimed at defending their corporate interests. We can also say that these are the modern-class organizations of the post-industrial period. The first professional association in Portugal comes from 1869 and its order from 1936. Today, following the provisions of Law No 2 / 2013 establishing the legal regime for the establishment, organization and operation of professional public associations, a new phase of the process is initiated which follows the adoption of the proposed legislation relating to 16 professional orders at a meeting of the Council of Ministers of 12 March. The Act provides that professional public associations have the name of professional orders, when conditional on obtaining a degree or higher qualification for the exercise of the profession—it is the case, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, two official dispatchers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u24	Bill No 291/ XII ( 4 ) ( a ) transforms the Chamber of Official Dispatchers into Order of Official Dispatchers and amends its Statute. We speak of a professional group that performs functions with higher degrees of academic requirement, fundamental competence and technical capacity in the present and for the many and new challenges of international trade, as we have already been reminded, capable of supporting the requirements of the law, the regulations and the procedures with which they are faced. Let me note that this bill results from a preliminary draft, originating in the Chamber of Official Dispatchants, an entity that recently celebrated 150 years of professional activity in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u25	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u26	We value the history, commitment and civic action of the present and, of course, unlike each other, the challenges and demands of today and of the future, in a global society. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u27	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr Artur Rêgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Once again, I was forced to hear these interventions from the Socialist Party that, paraphrasing Mr Nuno Sá, is fast, fast, fast, throws at a speed that is faster than the shadow, but throws nothing, throws empty! On the subject that brings us here, you have said nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u29	It's true! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u30	In fact, he said that the government was slow, slow, slow to meet the deadlines and to approve, but then, when the government comes here to call for consensus, he said that it was not enough time for that consensus to be achieved. Sir, tell me where you want to be! Do you want us to be slow or do you want us to be quick? Oh, my God! It's just that it's a little difficult! For the sake of our willingness to follow the reasoning and this somewhat curvilinear path of the PS, it is sometimes difficult to keep track of the course and follow them, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u32	Restricting and binding us, and now I will do a favor to the Socialist Party, and I will do it with all my pleasure and with all my esteem — to what the Socialist Party should have said, I will mention the following: these are three orders, which, today, are changing, of the greatest importance and relevance to the country, as Mr. Secretary of State said, for their economic activity. Otherwise, let us see: what would be about transparency in the accounts of companies, advertising and clean access that people should have to have to these accounts if they were not accountants? Oh, my God! in cases where double certification is required, for greater transparency of anonymous companies and all those institutions for which a ROC is required by law for the certification of their accounts, what would be if there were no profession like that of the official auditors of duly regulated accounts and, above all, with extremely tight ethical rules? These are professions — and hence their great public relevance — of greater relevance not only to those who exercise them but also to all Portuguese and the country. The same goes for official dispatchers, a profession, as has been said here, centenary, whose Chamber has existed since 1941, if I am not mistaken, and of extreme relevance, not only for its existence but also for the increasing technical competence and demands of those who exercise it and for the relevance it has in the economy of the country, particularly in the export sector of this country. These three legislative initiatives aim not only to give the appropriate dignity to these three professions, but also, in relation to what already exists in terms of the legislation that frames them, to make the proper adequacy to the services directive and also to Law No. 2 / 2013 of 10 January, which came to impose new requirements. And what are these new demands that are now altered? Orders must exist to regulate the exercise of activity not only technically, but also from the point of view of the ethical rules that their professionals must respect, but must not constitute obstacles to access to activity for those who are properly qualified to exercise it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u33	Therefore, the first requirement made in this framework law and which also comes from the Services Directive is to facilitate access to those who are entitled to these activities. The adequacy of the statutes of these three orders changed the rules of access, internship and subsequent passage of the professional portfolio in order to be able to exercise the activity, created, in what were not orders and, in the case of the transformation of the Chamber, the figure of the staff, came to impose the obligation of the certification of accounts, and finally came, through this new amendment, above all, to regulate and conform these three orders and their statutes to the new realities required by the market, by the Services Directive and by Law No 2 / 2013. You spoke here about 90 days. It's true! There was a 90-day deadline. But, attention, my fault, my fault, because this deadline is created by the law of the Assembly itself and not of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u34	And we warned! We warned you!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u35	It's true, yes sir! Mr. João Oliveira is absolutely right. Still yesterday, I said that. Mr. João Oliveira, in the working group, was careful to say that this period would be short,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u36	Yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u37	... as if you'd prove it. And he's gone! In addition to the deadline and not complying with it for reasons which also had to do with the need of the orders themselves to suit their proposals to the new reality, the Government has taken care to concern itself, beyond that deadline, with what was most important, that is, to consult the associations and all the institutions and entities involved that, in some way, could have a word to say, because they are directly affected by these amendments. And they were all heard, as it was said. That was the Government's concern. If you ask the CDS if it is bad not to meet a deadline, I will say that it is bad; if you alternatively ask if you prefer to meet the deadline, but not hear who you should hear to be sure of both the technical and the consensus of the parties directly involved in this process, our position is this: it is better to listen to those who have to be heard, it is better to have the necessary and demanding consensus and technical contributions than to be religious and blind to meet a time limit that makes this impossible. We therefore welcome this initiative, thank the Government for having taken it and sent it now and reiterate what has been said here by the Secretary of State, i.e. we have all the openness to discuss and improve the proposals presented here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u38	Mrs. Members, the CFP is following. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A word from the PCP of greeting to all men and women professionals of these fields of activity that are under discussion — official dispatchers, official auditors, certified accountants. from the PCP, we wanted to invite Mr Artur Rego to say the rest of what he did not say. It is because it is not enough to say that the PCP warned about the situation that was to be created, and that it is created, with legal and statutory developments due to the delay that was generated. The CFP presented proposals for amendments which were rejected, with votes against the CSD, the PS and the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u41	...and that they would avoid the situation that is created. This bill, as the PS Member so enthusiastically recalled, is, in fact, the 'daughter' of the Memorandum of Understanding from the point of view of the precariousness and subjection to the services directive and the Community guidelines which, to this extent, are placed. There is therefore an undeniable kinship here that puts this precariousness, as we say from a Community point of view, in relation to this framework. But there are other issues, some of which we have already addressed in the initial question, to which Mr State Secretary has not answered fully, which have to do with the problem of professional societies. It is that we are not in the situation of some multidisciplinary societies, which are framed as such, but in the reverse case, that is, in the case of all professional societies being potentially called multidisciplinary, but which are actually societies in which someone can hold an important part of the capital with relations of economic dependence and other interrelationships that can pose serious problems, including from the ethical point of view, when an important part of decision-making power is placed in the hands of someone who does not respond to their order. That's what we're talking about, Secretary of State! He has already answered: 'This happens in other countries of Europe and corresponds to the Services Directive'.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u42	That's another question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u43	But that does not answer what we question. Our question is to know what implications is that this case may have from the point of view of the self-regulation that is required of these professions. Therefore, the question remains to be answered. There are issues which, on the part of the CFP, deserve our attention and our reservation under the framework law. In addition to this question of professional societies, we are talking about their ownership, management and administration, the problem of trainees and internships.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u45	We are faced with a national situation in which young people are increasingly facing unemployment and precariousness, and then they are easily caught up in condemnable situations, not only from a professional, job perspective, but also from a deontological point of view, which results mainly from a situation of exploitation in which young people are placed, because the remuneration of the stages goes beyond this discussion and we believe that this should not be the case. The same is true in relation to a problem that has to do with the final examination of internships, also a crucial issue for young people and for those who will enter the profession, insofar as it is for the Government to decide on the approval of higher education courses and it is for the Government to compete with the evaluation of the training provided, as well as the maintenance of their courses. There is, therefore, a matter that needs another weighting already from the framework law and the problem remains. in this sense, Madam President, to conclude by leaving these reservations and these concerns which have already come back and registering that there are objectively matters that have not been fully clarified by the Government, I must say that we have a long work and a long way to go in a discussion that will still be to such a marathon that we have before us. I just don't know how much time we have for that! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u46	A new PSD intervention follows. Mr Pedro Roque has the floor. [[Pause.]] In fact, the alternative would ask me to give the word to the Left Block. It's the plague we've got. If Mr. Pedro Roque doesn't mind and if Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares wants to...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u47	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u48	So Mr. Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u49	Madam President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us also discuss, among other things, the proposal for a law approving the new Statute of the Order of Official Accountants ( ROC ). This proposal is inserted by the Government in order to promote self-regulation and administrative decentralization in respect of the principles of harmonisation and transparency of the professional auditing and auditing exercise. Professional orders, in accordance with the Constitution, are constituted for the satisfaction of specific needs, although they do not confuse themselves with trade unions. However, considering the nature of the activity carried out by the OCR, it is important to define a legal framework on the aspects related to its access and scope of action, while at the same time defining the rules for the organisation and operation of the order. The ROC activity should be at the service of safeguarding transparency, of the quality of financial information of entities, ensuring confidence and reliability with a view to the effective functioning of markets at national and international level. Similarly, the Community framework governing the activities of the ROCs justifies its specificity in relation to the other professional orders, especially with regard to the high independence requirement in the professional exercise, the incompatibilities to which they are subject, the demanding quality control procedures and the high level of supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u51	These circumstances make the order of the ROCs solely subordinate to an external and independent supervisory body, which has responsibilities in the exercise of quality control of the activity. In this way, compliance with the provisions on the conditionalities of economic policy, signed on 17 May 2011, where the Portuguese State has made a number of commitments with regard to professional qualifications and regulated professions. Finally, but not least, it is important to stress that the ROC Order, the National Audit Supervisory Board and the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds have been heard. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u52	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u53	Madam President, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Equality, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the professionals of the professions we are debating today because, in fact, they deserve all our respect for the importance they have for the country. We must not fail to note the difficulty in which their orders or organizations are currently in place, as a result of action, or the lack of it by the Government. Currently, as has already been mentioned, and it is worth highlighting, there is a clear dissonance between the statutes of the various professional orders or organizations and the framework law. This is because there is a framework law that is in force with the statutes that are related to a previous law and therefore out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u54	And he was excused!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u55	And this is because the government did not, when it should, make these proposals of law. He tells us most of them didn't, because he wanted to involve professional organizations. Well, that's a fair and proper concern. It is indeed an obligation on the part of the Government. But it should have preceded this whole process and not create the current situation in which there are clearly statutes of professional orders or professional organizations that are outside the Framework Law. That is one of the premises that we should have in this debate. A second premise is that the framework law, Law No. 2 / 2013, will lead us over the next few weeks to a very extensive set of debates on the various orders. We must therefore properly frame this debate that we are having with this national and international legal organisation, because all of this is the source of the European services directive and also the will to liberalise, both the opening up of the markets which the directive of the services imposed on the European Community and which now reaches Portugal. An important note: we have the pleasure of Mr. Secretary of State's 'VIP presence' to discuss this with us, who told us that, in addition to involving the orders in this debate, the Government will have an opening to discuss these issues with great depth. I think it's an opening to highlight. I think it is perhaps necessary, because for all the interventions we have had in this area we realize that we are all leaving the discussion of various issues for the debate in the specialty, much more capable of going to technical details than this debate in general. Moreover, with three legislative proposals it is not possible for us to discuss these technical details. But as far as these particular diplomas are concerned, there are two subjects I wanted to put on the table, because they care about the Left Block. On the one hand, something that is transversal to Law No 2 / 2013, but that these diplomas do not solve—and, being transversal to the framework law, could be solved by these diplomas—and that is related to the issue of young people who want to enter these careers, particularly with their internships. There is not even a note on the remuneration of internships, which, to us, is a matter of concern. From the moment they are forced to do internships, which are professional, there should be an associated remuneration, because, if not, the slave labor of the trainees ends up being protected by the law. On this subject, we have not seen the Government's concern at the creation of this bill, but, for us, this is an area on which we will focus on specialized work. The second note is based on the idea that it is presented with a good phraseology of the "multidisciplinary societies", but that it can in fact hide a leak either from the technical competence and the belief that the orders should have on this technical competence, about the fulfilment of ethical obligations, or from the hierarchical chains and the detention of power, within these multidisciplinary societies. We believe that this is one of the most important marks that the services directive transposes into the framework law, which, in turn, is then transposed into these three proposals of law, but which can allow an abuse of these multidisciplinary societies. It seems to us that this is not properly guarded in these bills. These are, therefore, the areas that in this general debate we would like to address and are also the themes that, in the specialty debate, will deserve our particular attention, because they are transversal, in each of their practical applications, to all professional sectors. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u56	Mr José Manuel Canavarro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u57	Mr President, Mr and Mrs Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First compliance with professional orders, their leaders and also with all the professionals who integrate them and who contribute, through the exercise of their profession, to the modernization and improvement of the country. I'm going to make a brief statement, with only four notes. The first one has to do with revisiting the past. Let me paradoxically read a very recent communication of 6 April 2015 sent to this House, specifically to 10. the Commission, by the National Council of Professional Orders, on these legislative initiatives, but which recalls the preparation of Law No 2 / 2013. And I quote: « CNOP stands out alongside VV. e.g. the relevance and profit of the work done in the past in cooperation with this Council, availability which it reiterates here, in particular by the interconnection between the subjects that are part of the current parliamentary activity and some of the important consensus found around Law No 2 / 2013, appropriate, moreover, to the logic of self-regulation in qualified professions, made possible through the hearing of CNOP ». With this quote, I would like to combat a little the view that Mr Nuno Sá has brought us, that is, in the past there have been extremely positive aspects. All parliamentary work on the construction of Law No. 2 / 2013 was done in a very participatory way, extremely active. I think without this note, the story wouldn't be complete. There was a delay, already highlighted also by Mr Artur Rêgo, and that is obviously a delay with which we must conform, but the whole process that originated Law No 2/2013 was a positive, valid process recognized by external partners and this is also a part of history. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, history was not complete without this reference. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u58	A second point I would like to stress is that there is, in this set of legislative initiatives, a component of compromise and modernity. The statutory changes which we are discussing today are, as we know, determined, among other aspects, because agreed, negotiated and subscribed, within the framework of what is commonly referred to as the Memorandum of Understanding. There is a compromise and modernisation framework that forms the form of this legislative process. It is not too much to remember that this legislative process comes from a compromise that is being fulfilled and also from a desire for modernisation that will become consistent, or even more consequent. A third note relates only to Bill No 293 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ), which transforms the Order of Official Accounting Techniques ( TOC ) into the Order of Certified Accountants. In addition to other changes that we will then discuss, there is a change here, which has to do with a better public perception. I agree with Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares when he says that the discussion in the specialty will enrich this whole debate, but here is an extremely interesting change: the official account technicians are much better known and have a huge impact on the day-to-day of people as accountants, in this case certified accountants. Therefore, there is not only a conformity with the international designation, because internationally this is how these professionals are known, but also there is a conformity with something that is fundamental, which is the public social representation of the profession. We do not say that we are going to an office of official account technicians, we say we are going to an accounting office, even when we have to fill in tax documents. It may be there « Official Accounting Technique », but for us, for most Portuguese, social representation is that of accountant. It seems to us an interesting aspect that there is an update that meets the public social representation of the profession, because this makes it much more perceptible to all citizens. Finally, and ending, the future. We expect this set of legislative initiatives to be put down to its committee for discussion on the subject, and there we will have the opportunity to initiate a process of hearing, discussion, possible change and improvement, which, moreover, the Secretary of State has just referred to as possible and desirable. I think this process, at least, should be as involved and as positive as that which gave rise to Law No 2 / 2013. It is an obligation for all those who are present here, and surely it is an obligation that we will fulfill. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u59	Mr António Cardoso has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I should like to begin by welcoming the representatives of the professional orders present here and, in my speech, by taking account of the start of a new process. Today, there are three initiatives, which are the beginning of a set of 18 amendments in professional order and which will involve hundreds of professionals — about 350 000 to 400 000 professionals involved in this process. the high importance of this assessment. I have welcomed the opening of the Government to obtain a consensus and legal stability in the future statutes of the professions involved, in order also to stabilize the exercise of any profession. However, an issue that leaves the Socialist Party concerned has to do with the deadline and the delay in this whole process, which leads to the rapid appreciation of this legislation in the field of expertise, as has happened to some documents in this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u61	This is a great concern that we would like to note, and now too, in reply to Mr José Manuel Canavarro, who has the ultimate responsibility for the dynamization of this process, I would say that we are convinced that it will correspond to the time the problem demands. With regard to Mr Artur Rêgo, I would like to say to you that the speed and lightness that this government did not have in this regard had for austerity measures. This note cannot be made clear: it was a very fast government in matters of austerity, cuts in pensions, reduction in workers' rights, cuts in wages, etc. but, in such important legislation as this, it has been delayed, left to the last, practically at the end of the term of office. However, given the enormous importance and responsibility of this matter, everyone will deserve better attention and greater delivery. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u62	Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda, which consisted of the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 291/ XII ( 4 ), is concluded. ( a ), 292 / XII ( 4. ( a ) and 293 / XII ( 4. ( a). We are now moving from the second item on the agenda to the general debate on the proposal for a law No 303 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations. Before we start the debate, we only wait for government members to take their place at the government bench. I would also like to ask the honourable Members. Members in favour of taking their seats to create conditions for the debate. [[Pause.]] To present the bill, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Food and Agri-Food Research, with my compliments. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u63	Madam President, my compliments too. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: I am here to present Bill No 303 / XII ( 4 ). a ), concerning the Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, which is inserted, as you know, into a joint work to review the statutes of professional organizations. Thus, considering European law, by Directive 2006 / 123 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December on internal market services, which establishes the general legal framework which facilitates, on the one hand, the exercise of the freedom of establishment of service providers and the free movement of services, while maintaining a high level of quality and, on the other hand, that this regulation covers all services provided, by means of an economic counterpart, and also covers most regulated professions, therefore Member States should ensure free access to the activity of the service and its free exercise in their territory. Therefore, the Member State may impose compliance with its own requirements only insofar as they are not discriminatory, proportionate and justified for reasons relating to public order, public safety, public health or, then, with environmental protection. On the other hand, national legislation recognises the professional associations autonomy and administrative decentralization, so that they can ensure the defence and safeguarding of the public interest and the fundamental rights of citizens, as well as the power of self-regulation of professions, whose exercise requires technical independence. Having said that, and so on, this proposal seeks to adopt the new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, giving shape to the recommendations of the Memorandum of Understanding which advise the improvement of the functioning of the sector of regulated professions, specifically in respect of the recognition of professional qualifications, elimination of advertising restrictions, elimination of requirements for the exercise of regulated professions which are not justified or professional, as well as also applying the general guidelines for the exits of the interministerial working group, established by Department No 2657 / 2013 of 8 February, which carried out the analysis and preparation of the amendments to the statutes in force. for this purpose, all the provisions of the current Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians that do not overlap with that established in Law No 2 / 2013 are respected and maintained, as well as all the transversal provisions applicable to all the statutes of the professional public associations under review. The proposal under discussion results from solutions found, of broad consensus reached with the Order of Veterinary Physicians, which expressed only a fundamental objection related to the limitation of the reservation of the activity of the veterinary profession to some acts that, so far, were proper and exclusive of veterinary physicians. Therefore, and in summary, the Government is now presenting a new bill with a view to greater competitiveness, greater adjustment and adequacy to the Services Directive, as well as the legislation in force, and a Statute which has a broad consensus in the Order of Veterinary Physicians itself, as well as its agreement. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u64	Mr David Costa of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important to confront the PSD/CDS Government with some doubts and contradictions created by this proposal to amend the Statute of the Veterinary Medical Order. Of course, how can the societies of veterinary doctors set up in another country of the European Union or of the European Economic Area rights and statutory duties comparable when the composition of these same societies are partners that are not veterinary doctors? Mr Secretary of State, how do these members of the societies in question stand up in the new statutes, particularly in relation to the principles and rules of ethics, when they are not linked to the profession of veterinary doctor? Another of the great doubts generated by the activity of these multidisciplinary and multisectoral societies that the Government now intends to provide coverage is the compatibility between the veterinary medical act, which is an individual act, and the responsibilities in the exercise of the profession of the same act within a society that is, for all purposes, legally solidarity with its partners? It is in fact opacity that the PSD/CDS government has to clarify, but it is obvious to the CFP that we are in the presence of a diploma that opens the statistical door of veterinary medicine to the large multinational corporations of transnational capital. This is the major problem of this Government proposal. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are maintaining today all the objections and reservations that we have previously stated about how, by means of the discussion on the free establishment and provision of services, the exploitation of those who work at European level is aggravated and which here is transposed into the Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians. As we have stated in previous discussions, we do not follow that the determination of the right to establish and provide services does not objectively determine an obligation to enter the social security system of the country where the same service is provided or evident proof of contribution in the country of origin. And if, on the one hand, the European Union shows all the diligence in the recognition and regulation of professional qualifications, on the other hand, we see European directives which do not incorporate any kind of wage correlation with these qualifications, thus creating competition between workers, with the clear aim of reducing rights and exacerbating the exploitation of workers within the European Union. The Portuguese Communist Party reiterates its position declared in 2006, at the discussion of the Bolkstein Directive, saying that the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy would be catastrophic for the country, it would not transform the European Union into a full employment space, with the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world—as promised, Mr. Secretary of State—but rather, in an area of great exploitation of workers, with labour deregulation and with an added point of liberalisation and privatization of basic services and public services. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u66	Mr. João Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u67	Mr President, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : We discuss in this Chamber the proposal for a law No 303 / XII ( 4. ( a ) approving the Statutes of the Order of Veterinary Physicians. I take this opportunity to welcome on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group the more than 5000 veterinarians in our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u68	The presentation of this bill, as has already been said, comes from the entry into force of Law No 2 / 2013, a framework law of 10 January establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations and also determines the need for the revision of the statutes of professional associations already created, in order to conform to that regime. The proposed amendments are aimed at improving the mobility conditions of their professionals, both in national and European areas, in the alignment of the Community Directive in the area of freedom of movement. They also seek to adapt the Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians established by Decree-Law No 368 / 91 of 4 October and amended by Law No 117 / 97 of 4 November to the scheme already provided for in the Act of 2013, in particular as regards the model of operation and its organization and the conformity of the control and self-regulation powers which are committed to this Order in respect of the profession and exercise of veterinary medicine activity. essentially, the current statutory provisions which, as Mr. Secretary of State has already said, do not conflict with the current regime are maintained. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2013 framework law helped to systematize principles, so the review of the Statutes of the Order of Veterinary Physicians aims to regulate the exercise and activity of this profession. We're talking about veterinary doctors, but listening to Mr. David Costa seemed to be talking about the order of ghosts. Don't! They're veterinary doctors. We speak of a profession of greater relevance, with an extremely rapid evolution, subject to various demands, ranging from animal health and welfare to the safeguarding of food quality and safety, through animal production and environmental protection itself. We are convinced that the legislation now presented constitutes an opportunity to adjust, update and, not to say, improve the performance of professionals in this important area. in drafting this bill was heard the Order of Veterinary Physicians and we are convinced that the process of discussion in the specialty that will follow will be an excellent opportunity for receiving contributions, working consensus, which will contribute to a better performance of such a noble profession. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u69	You now have the floor for the CDS-PP, Mr Manuel Isaac.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u70	Mr President, Mrs and Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The CDS recognises the importance of both the Order of Veterinary Physicians and, more importantly, the professionals themselves who exercise veterinary activity. Veterinary medicine is one of many areas of knowledge related to the maintenance and restoration of health, working in a broad sense with the prevention and cure of animal diseases, in a medical context, being the animal health professional trained in a Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. in this sense, veterinary medicine is the medical science dedicated to the prevention, control, eradication and treatment of diseases, trauma or any other harm to animal health, in addition to the control of the health of animal products and by-products for human consumption. It also seeks to ensure the quality, quantity and safety of food of animal origin through the control of animal health and the processes aimed at obtaining its products, which is thus of great importance to the health of human beings. Only as an example, I highlight, as areas of activity the exercise of the profession of veterinary doctor in liberal regime; the treatment of diseases and trauma affecting animals; pharmaceutical industries; analysis laboratories; public health; inspection and food security; food industries of products of animal origin; the autoarchic administration and research in various fields of health, human and veterinary. Making a brief historical review, the Statute of Veterinary Physicians was approved by Decree-Law No 368/91 of 4 October, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 257/91 of 30 November. Due to the fact that at the end of 2012 the Assembly of the Republic had approved the new law on professional orders, it was established that the Government would have to present to the Assembly of the Republic the proposals to amend the statutes of the already established public professional associations. For the effective establishment of a new harmonised legal framework in this area, in addition to the approval of that law, it was also necessary to supplement the scheme approved by Law No 9 / 2009 of 4 March 2009 which transposed into the domestic legal order Directive 2005 / 36 / EC, Parliament and Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, and Council Directive 2006 / 100 / EC of 20 November 2006. It is therefore in this sequence that we find that the Government has fulfilled its obligation and here we are discussing, and we will then be voting on, the proposed law which will conform the Statutes of the Order of Veterinary Physics to the framework law. I should therefore like to highlight the amendments which, in my view, deserve special relevance and which consist in the model of operation and organization and in the conformation of the powers of control and self-regulation which are committed to this Order, in relation to the profession and the exercise of the activity of veterinary medicine. Nor can we forget that, despite some amendments, the Government was wise not to change what was right and we are pleased that the statutory provisions which do not comply with the new regime are essentially maintained. In short, we congratulate the Government on this initiative, which will deserve our approval. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u71	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Pereira, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I address a greeting to the Order of Veterinary Physicians. The new Statute of the Order of Veterinary Physicians arises from the need to standardise the legal and statutory framework for access to the veterinary profession with the rest of the European labour market. Following the changes in higher education introduced by the implementation of the Bologna Treaty, with which it was possible to increase and improve mobility at the European level of higher education students, it was urgent and essential to adapt the status of professional public associations in order to ensure the elimination of unjustified barriers to access and exercise of their activity and improve the mobility conditions of professionals in the national and European areas, in line with the European Union directives on freedom of movement. And if we understand and agree with the Government's proposal so far, we cannot let the way that this process is conducted become clear. Now we see: on 10 January 2013, Law No. 2 / 2013, establishing the Legal Regime of Creation, Organization and Operation of Professional Public Associations, which in Article 53, was published. the, in paragraph 5, states that the Government had 90 days to present to the Assembly of the Republic the proposals to amend the statutes of the already established professional public associations. Today, more than two years have passed since the period established by law, and worse than the time it took to present the proposals is the fact that this time has not been used to bring valid proposals and, above all, duly agreed with current professional public associations. It is regrettable that, after such a long wait, only 10 days are given to the Order of Veterinary Physicians to rule on the Government's proposal on its own regulations. The profession of veterinary doctor is extremely important to be treated with this leviancy by the government, because in addition to dealing with important health and animal welfare issues, important in various contexts but with particular emphasis on the agricultural sector, it has human health-related functions, particularly with regard to food safety issues, which is why all the proposed changes must be discussed and implemented with the rigor and professionalism that the profession requires. The PS Parliamentary Group shares the concerns shown in the opinion of the Order of Veterinary Physicians, especially with regard to the definition of the veterinary medical act and the definition of the academic degree accepted to exercise this profession. But once again there is criticism of the fact that it has not been given enough time to study this matter and make the necessary hearings so that we can have a more successful position. We hope that in the discussion on the specialty this failure will be overcome and that this matter will be studied and discussed with the time and rigour it has been given and, above all, that there is room for promoting the necessary changes, important for the exercise of the profession of veterinary doctor, taking into account the need for mobility of professionals in the national and European areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u73	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, I want to leave a first note of compliance to professionals, veterinary doctors and also to those who wish to be and are studying for this purpose, because they will also be covered by this theme and their entry into the profession will also be restricted or, at least, regulated by this diploma. That is why compliance is not innocent because, in fact, this discussion is also for them. On this subject, I would like to say that in the debate on the subject we will have greater capacity to have a more in-depth debate than in these three minutes we have here that we are allowed to do so, but there are two notes that I would like to leave. The first relates to the way the stages are framed in this issue and to the question of precariousness, often considered as slave labor, which are recurrent issues. This is not of the most problematic professions, but of those that begin to have a greater coverage of these cases. The second is also the way in which liberalisation, particularly as a result of the European directive, opens up to some practices which degrade the quality of the rights of those working in this case with the rights of doctors and veterinary doctors. There is a point that I wanted to leave on the table from now on and that is linked to the suitability that is required for those who have this profession. There is one matter, which is perceived to be a kind of transcription of previous reservations concerning the suitability of those who practice veterinary medicine, which I believe should now be updated, taking into account the law that has recently been passed by the Assembly of the Republic, because it deals with ill-treatment of animals and its criminalization. It is not yet mentioned that anyone who committed some kind of crime that attacks animals and, therefore, is considered to be ill-treatment of animals may be prevented from practicing the profession and I think that it is one of the subjects that should deserve that update. Given that we are reviewing legislation and that legislation on criminalizing animal abuse has, however, been created, there is a new legal picture to be incorporated and we should also take this step with regard to the suitability of these professionals. As for the rest, we will have the chance and the opportunity to debate in the specialty, with the opening we hope that the government will have not only in the words but also in the actions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u75	The Secretary of State for Food and Agri-Food Research has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your contributions and I hope that they will be intense during the debate on the subject. In relation to some of the concerns I have heard from some of the benches, I meant that it makes no sense. And it makes no sense because, for example, the internship is not covered, i.e., the internship is not compulsory either to start the profession of veterinary doctor or to the societies referred to here and that are related to veterinary doctors or equivalent in other countries, where courses are not similar but where, through the regulation of the European Union and the comparison of courses, they can be comparable to the area of veterinary doctors. I do not fail to take special note and thank you, being a veterinarian, for your special compliance with the professionals and the Order. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u77	With no further inscriptions, I can conclude this point on our agenda. We say goodbye here to the gentlemen. State Secretaries and we will move on to the third point of our agenda today, which consists of the discussion of the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board — 2014. You have the floor for an intervention by the PSD, Mr Paulo Rios.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing here, despite the apparent aridity or lesser importance, is not, in fact, a minor issue. Portugal, in 2008, and was not even too avant-garde on the subject, created the database of DNA profiles for civil and criminal identification. However, only in 2013 did we create the Organization and Operation Law of the Supervisory Board of this database. The fact is that this body reports directly to the Assembly of the Republic and from there the importance it is given, without forgetting, however, that it is an independent administrative entity. The report presented to us today reflects a little of the concerns with which this Council is concerned, because when we talk about these databases there is always a great tension between scientific progress and fundamental rights. Let us not forget that scientific progress, being galloping, only increases the tension between the discussion of rights that are also fundamental, because when we talk about the use of these databases for civil or criminal purposes, i.e. when we make this instrument available to the State, we contend or we may have highly relevant rights, which have to do with fundamental rights and are constitutionally recognized. In fact, the discussion in 2008, a very broad discussion, particularly in the field of specialty, already reflected this tension, discussing, I remember, how, at some point, in search of the individuality of the person, we can go so far that at the same time we clash with the right of the person himself or others to his privacy or to the reservation of his private life. The report that has been brought to us is clearly complete and ambitious. It is complete because, being divided into several parts, basically, what is intended through this Commission is to ensure that the use of DNA for forensic purposes takes place within the legal framework and with respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. However, this report also tells us how to create a database — and it is useful to do so because, if not otherwise, it has a pedagogical character here. The Council also brings us, within the framework of the report, the set of activities it has carried out, whether the set of meetings or the interaction with other entities, including the issue of opinions, having a binding role or not. But this report also ends with ambition. Clearly, the members of the Council have grasped the importance of their role and end up taking on certain commitments or wishes, such as: to strengthen relations with other bodies and persons with competences in this area, in particular the Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Science; to assume itself as a privileged agent of opening spaces and discussion; to stimulate reflection on legislative policy by promoting public participation in this discussion; and, very important, to make the competent monitoring of progress achieved. It is not worth creating laws if we do not monitor their application in practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u80	Therefore, from this point of view, the report deserves a very positive assessment. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u81	The Bureau no longer registers, so we can move on to the next item on our agenda. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of what has already been requested several times by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, we are grateful that registrations are made in good time. In the meantime, Mrs Isabel Oneto, to whom I give the floor, was registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear the complexity of the topic under consideration, which is projected in various dimensions of axiological and practical legal nature. As soon as forensic genetics live the historical acceleration of their mother science and if it cannot be denied the closure of emerging rights, particularly at the level of human health, it cannot also ignore its intrusive capacity in the sphere of which only the private is concerned, and the legislator is responsible for defining this water line here. from the reading of this Report it is clear that the process of building the database of DNA profiles is still underway, i.e. the process of consolidating its activity is still underway, both with regard to the criteria and procedures for the insertion of data and, in particular, the definition of a secure path to its consolidation. The report also gives us note of the holding of a meeting between officials of the Institute of Legal Medicine, the Database and the Supervisory Board to address, among other issues, the issues raised by judicial offices for the insertion of profiles into the Database. in this field, jurisprudence has not yet drawn a firm path. A brief research by case law of 2. the instance reveals the difficulties felt regarding the interpretation of the legal criterion of biological sample collection of convicted persons with sentences passed in court. While the Lisbon Court considered that the collection should not be automatic, therefore the sentencing judgment will have to substantiate the existence of serious danger of criminal continuation or other relevant fears in order to infer the need for such collection, the Evora Court has already concluded that, in accordance with formal requirements, the Court does not have to substantiate materially the decision ordering the collection of biological samples. from this court of Évora also came out the judgment which it considered could not be the convicted with a sentence passed in a court of law forced to collect biological sample for the purposes of inserting the DNA profile in the database because the law does not foresee it, a decision which has, in fact, been followed by other instances where the constitutionality of the norm has already been raised. The concerns expressed in this report are still at the level of international cooperation, in anticipation of difficulties which, according to this document, can only be overcome by legislative intervention. At the executive level, in this case, the Ministry of Justice is required to intervene in order to permit compliance with the rules on the removal of the database and destruction of samples of the convicted person who has been removed from his criminal record the effects of the sentencing sentence. Finally, the report reveals the commitment of those directly responsible for the operation of the Database in the search for procedures that meet the legal requirements and their interpretation in accordance with the constitutional text, as well as the perception of its relevance in not only criminal terms, since the Database for the purposes of civil identification is an important instrument for the consecration of other fundamental rights. The view obtained from this Report on the evolution of the database allows us to conclude that there may not be another moment more certain than the present one for the construction of the balances necessary for the use of the effects of science within the limits of ethically acceptable. We are aware of the issues that at the level of prohibited methods of testing and the collection of biological samples arise in the doctrine and case law, such as, among other issues not least relevant, the elimination of personal data and the destruction of DNA profiles, but we believe that, in this particularly relevant area, where it confuses precisely the tension between the need for criminal investigation and the need for the guarantee of fundamental rights, perhaps this Assembly of the Republic can contribute, by calling here other partners, such as the National Council of Sciences for the Ethics of Life, to help consolidate this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u83	Mrs Teresa Anjinho has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the first report of the current DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board, which we remember is in operation since June 2013, following the adoption in this House of the Organization and Operation Law of the DNA Profile Database Supervisory Board, already provided for in the 2008 Act, giving it this way a more robust legal framework, consistent with the important function that is committed to it by law, i.e. ensuring, as already mentioned above, that such a difficult balance between the use of DNA for forensic purposes takes place within the legal framework and in full respect of the fundamental rights of citizens. After almost two years, I believe it is important to recognize that there is an active and interventional Supervisory Board—and for this reason it is sufficient to look at the data in the report—not only to ensure respect for the legality and normal functioning of the Database, in a field of difficult balances, as has been mentioned, but also with a view to making greater use of its potential. It is therefore necessary to mention the figures here: of the approximately 1600 profiles inserted between February 2010 and June 2013 — which was, in fact, motivating many criticisms, taking into account the objectives set at this time — afterhumously, the time limit of the Report, the total number of profiles inserted is close to 5000. It is not to mention the commitment that the Council has made, as has already been mentioned here, in the general disclosure of relevant information, in particular with the creation of a website on the Internet, which seems to me to be a good practice, a practice of responsibility, therefore worth noting, in an important task of awareness-raising that goes hand in hand with the developments in these areas,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u85	... as well as the conduct of training actions directed precisely to judicial operators with competences in this field, highlighting, among other aspects, one of the most controversial aspects, the obligation to insert the profile of all cases of citizens convicted of imprisonment equal to or above three years, precisely to address the relevant case-law doubts and that here we also assume and recognize as deserving of discussion and, where appropriate, clarification. in the field of international cooperation, it highlights the importance of this Database, and it may be even more important in the future, particularly in view of the interaction with Europol and Interpol. On this point, in exercising its powers, the Supervisory Board refers to legislative limitations which may potentially cause difficulties in international cooperation, which has not yet been created. In other words, it is necessary to clarify what information those responsible for the Database can provide to international partners and in what circumstances this information can be provided. It is that personal data are at stake and the law must therefore be clear, and it is also necessary to clarify the role of the Supervisory Board in this matter. Also worthy of note and to conclude, I would say that the Supervisory Board has ensured the full compliance of the Act with regard to the destruction of biological samples immediately after obtaining the profiles, and has addressed the important issue, also mentioned here, of the elimination of the profiles of persons condemned to take place on the same date as the final cancellation of their decisions in the criminal register, which we recognize is not the model adopted in other countries, and the necessary procedures and procedures are under way for this purpose. I conclude by concluding the report: the intensification of the disclosure and discussion of the legal regime of the Database to the courts and citizens in general is a task that must be continued, being fundamental, as the activity of the Database continues and takes on the national and international challenges that are already taking place today, ensuring the prompt adequacy of its legal framework to the full implementation of the already recognised mission. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u86	Mr António Filipe has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words to record positively the fact that today we have appreciated the report presented to this House by the Monitoring Board of the DNA Profile Database, an extremely sensitive subject on which there was an interesting debate at the time of the adoption of the current legislation, where a balanced solution was sought to reconcile the importance that a DNA profile database may have, in particular, to combat crime but not only with the necessary safeguard of the fundamental rights of citizens to their privacy in something as sensitive as the DNA profile. Therefore, it has opposed here, through the current law, the ideas of those who consider that, on less days, all citizens will have their own DNA profile included in the database, a maximalist thesis which, from our point of view, would be deeply detrimental to the fundamental rights of citizens, and a balanced solution was found so that they could find this database of citizens who voluntarily requested it and situations in which, as a result of a judicial conviction, one would appear from the DNA profile database with the possibility that, if it was done, their profile could be removed from the database. It is legitimate and plausible, in particular, that a citizen, for the purposes of recognition of a corpse following an accident, may consider that it will be useful for his descendants that his DNA profile may contain a database. This is legitimate, it must not be compulsive, it must not be compulsory. Therefore, a balanced solution was found. The Supervisory Board and the Database itself have had a troubled life in the sense of the disinterest which, however, the Portuguese State has expressed by the existence of either the Database or its supervision, something that has only recently been recovered. It is good that this path is taken and it is bad that legislation is adopted, that certain entities are created and that we do not care about them. It is therefore good that both the Database and its monitoring should be taken up and that legislative developments in this area should be properly monitored. We very much appreciate the report that Mrs Isabel Oneto has made and the contribution she has made to this debate, having drawn the rapporteur's opinion on a subject which we consider extremely valid, being a good contribution to the debate. We therefore have no objection to the report which has been presented, we note it positively and we hope that in future reports, in due course, the Assembly of the Republic will be able to decide on them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u88	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been recalled that it was only in 2013 — after all, so little time ago! — and to that end we have contributed, that the Assembly of the Republic has approved the Law of the Organization and Operation of the DNA Database Supervisory Board and, in this sense, guaranteed its independence, on the one hand, and on the other, the commitment to hold accounts before the Assembly of the Republic, as well as with the presentation of this Report last December concerning the year 2014. We welcome the report, which accounts for the activities of the Supervisory Board, the meetings that have been promoting, the opinions and, at the same time, its innovative activity, which is the creation of the site. Mrs Isabel Oneto, as has already been mentioned, has made an opinion that is rigorous, which we also stress as a given for this debate, which is a debate on matters of great sensitivity. in this sense, I would like to bring to this discussion what is contained in the report on what is the mission of the Supervisory Board, which is based on the surveillance of the border, sometimes tenuous, between the legality and the rights of citizens, on the one hand, and the criminal investigation needs and the effectiveness requirements of combating crime, on the other. The Council's powers are therefore to ensure that the use of DNA for forensic purposes is carried out within the legal framework. in this sense, it is clear that the very law of creation of the DNA Profile Database was the target of some debate in the past and many have invoked its restrictive character. This debate, in some way, has also reached Parliament. It is true that there is a breakdown of expectations regarding the planned collection, as the known data indicate that by February of this year 5000 samples have been collected in five years, when the expectation was that this collection would correspond to 6000 samples per year. The debate has already begun in the Assembly, with the recent colloquium promoted by 1. the Commission and where numerous difficulties have been noted, from bureaucrats to the financials of the courts themselves, but, in our view, the sensitivity of this matter requires that the debate be extended and sustained in a respect which is very important to us: the borders between science, criminal investigation and the fundamental rights of citizens must be secure. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u90	Having no further entries on this point, we can move forward to the following point, which consists of the discussion of the Regulatory Entity's Regulation and Accounts Report for the 2012 Social Communication. Mrs Adelaide Canastro from the PSD has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By complying with Article 24. Article 73, paragraph 2 ( d ) of Law No 53 / 2005 of 8 November, the Governing Council of the ERC has drawn up its Annual Report on the year 2012 on the media activities and its regulatory and supervisory activity, sending it to this Assembly to be discussed. , paragraph 2, of the same diploma. The careful study of the Report shows the work done by the ERC, in its capacity as a regulator of the social communication sector, to promote cultural pluralism of expression, as well as to ensure the free dissemination of content, the protection of target audiences and the information provided. The report is exhaustive and complete. in the same way as it has played its role as a regulatory entity, the ERC has also assumed the rights and obligations conferred on the State, either by compulsory charging of fees or by monitoring compliance with public service obligations in the field of social communication, the determination of the practice of infringements and the application of the competent penalties. At the level of the organization of the structure of its services, the ERC created in 2012 a Department of Media Analysis, which resulted from the merger of existing units of monitoring and analysis statistics, with the transfer of all functions, and appointed the new Executive Director. Also in terms of initiation or continuation of regulatory initiatives the ERC has not been stopped: It promoted, together with the protocol concluded with the Calouste Gulbenkien Foundation, the « Science in the Screen » conference, in which the analysis on the dissemination by the media of scientific activity developed in Portugal was disclosed ; approved the new model for monitoring compliance with the principle of political pluralism on television in Portugal ; It has signed a cooperation protocol with the Attorney-General of the Republic with a view to promoting a more effective link between the services that protect and in carrying out training actions, Meeting of the Mediterranean Media Regulatory Units was held. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this report shows once again the intense work done by the ERC, as well as the concern of providing careful, accurate and rigorous information to the citizen, and also the awareness of the continuing training and international knowledge of the sector by the ERC.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u93	in the presentation of the Report it is said that it presents clues, that 2012 was the year of trends, which 2013 confirmed and that in 2014 they will have to be seriously discussed. And the future is digital. I shall finish, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the same way as the presentation of the ERC report under discussion began, with the words of Wislava Szymborska: "When I pronounce the future word, the first syllable already belongs to the past. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u94	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I was very pleased to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u95	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u96	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question that today calls us to further an analysis is, if we wish, of democratic normality in the context of the follow-up to social communication. Indeed, the creation of the ERC meant a significant step in deepening many of the key regulatory tasks for the functioning of the social communication sector. It is not a regulation like any other, it is a regulation in a sensitive sector, fundamental to the quality of democracy, and therefore it is also to welcome the opportunity that we once again have to continue to observe the areas in which ERC seeks to extend and deepen the study that has made the reality of social communication. Nevertheless, I cannot fail to make a note, which almost becomes canonical in debates of this nature, which concerns that we are only appreciating the 2012 Report, a delay in assessing the reality that makes it more difficult to take action, to take note of the difficulties faced and that the Report underlines. Therefore, in the future, we have to work with the Entity itself, a matter which in the various regulatory hearings that have taken place with the Regulatory Entity has been underlined and which is related to the difficulty of data collection and processing. But, indeed, in 2015 we are making the assessment for the year 2012, which I could not fail to underline. As I said, the delay of time does not put us in front of those areas of the most intervention of the ERC in recent years, particularly last year, when the new television law came into force, which is a significant change in the audiovisual landscape and which is not reflected in the report, and it will not even be possible in this legislature to make such an assessment, thus being in another frame the analysis of these matters. However, we can see that there are several areas sensitive and critical to various elements of the functioning of social communication that were mediatically relevant and were mirrored in this Report. In particular, I refer to aspects relating to problematic situations such as the treatment of images of the demonstrations held in front of the Assembly of the Republic, which is noted in the Report, and to findings that the Entity itself has been developing with a view to improving its ability to control pluralism and to boost supply within the framework of public and private audiovisual, but also, essentially, a set of measures that have been increasing the volume of data available to us in the Assembly of the Republic, we are able to conduct an analysis of the public service of radio and television but also, globally, of the state of art and the quality of social communication as a focus and as a source of pluralism and diversity. in this sense, we welcome, of course, the work that has been undertaken by the ERC, we also welcome the fact that there is continued interest in monitoring the counter-ordination processes and that there have been steps taken by the Entity itself to improve the processing of cases that result in counter-ordinary initiatives, particularly through protocol with the Attorney-General of the Republic, also through investment in the field of training and, furthermore, underline the practice initiated to conduct annual conferences concerning the sector. All of this offers, in fact, an idea and a clear vision that the legislative amendments that have given rise to the ERC already a significant period of time allow today, in the second Regulatory Council appointed in the light of the present law, to make a globally positive balance but also identify many areas of progression that must continue to take place in the coming years. from the perspective of the Committee on Ethics, Citizenship and Communication, which has the monitoring of these matters, is clearly reflected in the report the many presences and many occasions in the Regulatory Council have provided further clarifications. As I said, there are a number of initiatives following the reporting period in which it was relevant and very relevant to the intervention of the ERC and we hope that in the pending legislative initiatives, once again called for greater transparency, for greater capacity to control the quality of democracy through the investigation of the quality of the social media bodies, this work continues to be able to be done in conjunction with this Entity and the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u98	Mr Raúl de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have reviewed in this plenary once again an annual report from the ERC. I begin by saying, as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has already said, that it is not natural for us that in mid-2015 we are discussing a 2012 report. This removes utility and accuracy from analysis and removes the action in terms of parliamentary activity on what would be the greatest utility of the Report. Even so, this repair, which is a repair we have already made in relation to previous reports — at the end of 2013 we discussed the 2011 report — it is important to say that both the previous Regulatory Council and this one, in their presentation before this Parliament, as it is their duty, do so with great skill, with great detail, as a result of the technical body of excellence that the Regulatory Communication entity has since its inception, which has provided this control, regulation, regulation analysis, which always translates into strengthening democracy. As more concrete points, so we thought it was interesting, we would leave here reference to the 257 deliberations of the year 2012, which constitute a decrease compared to 2011 and we hope it has not been for any other reason than for the best functioning of the sector. I would also like to make a very positive repair. For us, in this bench and in this party, which we are always debating by the public radio and television service, it is particularly interesting the analysis that the ERC makes of the Portuguese public radio. And it would leave interesting data here, as the fact that, between 7 and 20 hours, Antenna 1 of Portuguese public radio has percentages of Portuguese music and culture around 100 % and Antena 3 does not just meet the 25 % quota, and at the time it is about 45% in the 24 hours of issue, values that make us believe in a bet that has a marked past, a winning tradition, has a strong present and has to have a future to preserve. from the analysis of the television spectrum, I wanted to say that open-label television continues to be the most seen by the Portuguese, being the one that seeks the most, but if we see in the spectrum of programming, we can see that it is the least variety it offers. However, in line with what the Government has said, in the future, we must study the opening of greater open signal supply, such as the enrichment of information, culture and training to Portuguese. Television advertising, according to the Report, seems to us to be within the expected values, complying with the law. Finally, a repair of the ERC already in 2012 and a repair that the CDS still makes in the present refers to the treatment of surveys, its publication, its inaccuracy and the possible conditioning that represent, by the way they are done, for Portuguese public opinion. We leave this repair here, which, we stress, we have in others outside of political activity, and in this sense we are sure that the regulator has this attention and makes this mark. I therefore end by strengthening the role of the ERC by strengthening the role of the ERC with this Parliament in strengthening democracy and calling for these reports to be closer to the present in order to strengthen its current status in the future. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u100	Mr António Filipe once again spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the 2012 ERC report, which is somewhat inappropriate since it is already 2013. But things are what they are. Greater attention should be paid to the timely scheduling of these reports. There is a significant set of external entities to the Assembly of the Republic that report their activities annually to the Assembly of the Republic, therefore there is a wide range of reports that the Assembly should appreciate, which, in some ways, undermines the timely scheduling of these initiatives, but I believe that there should be greater attention — this involves the assembly as a whole, I am not talking about any particular majority — for a more timely schedule of such reports, because we are today discussing 2012 and any day there is 2014 because 2013 already exists. Therefore, speaking of the 2012 report would have only meaning of historical evocation, because after that, a lot of water ran under the bridges, a lot of dirty water ran under the bridges in terms of social communication. I believe that this moment, when we discuss a report from the ERC, will be the right time to also refer to the current situation of this sector, particularly the one that has been the manifest interference of political power, i.e. of the government with regard to the company providing the public radio and television service, the RTP. in recent times, we have seen something unusual, legislatively, with the government trying to legitimize their interference in public service through — imagine! — the establishment of an alleged independent general council, the first of which showed its 'independence' was to comply with the orders of the Government regarding the compulsive replacement of the administration of the RTP. We are not saying that the previous administration was worse than the current or vice versa. You are not here to know which of them was worse or better, but it is about registering the fact that the Government, which came here to present a bill to ensure the independence of RTP in relation to political power through a supposed independent general council, about a contract made by the administration of RTP, if you have given a press conference of the Council of Ministers, through Minister Luís Marques Guedes, so that the independent general council resigns the administration of RTP because of that contract. A new administration is named and one of its first acts is to say that, after all, the contract was great and had been very good for RTP!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u102	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares ( PSD ) : That's not how it was!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u103	In other words, what made the government of that order to the independent general council and that it agreed to resign the administration was not bad at all, it was very good for the new administration. I stress that you are not here to know which of the administrations has been worse or, even, to make valuable judgments on this contract. What needs to be recorded — and this is the time when it is possible to do so here, in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic — is an unacceptable interference of the Government in a company that should independently ensure the public service of radio and television. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u104	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block is also associated with the expectation that the deadline between the time of the report and the time when this plenary will discuss it can be substantially shortened in the future. I would like to leave only four notes on the report we are considering today. The first note concerns public service. The report shows clearly that it is the public service that continues to guarantee greater diversity of programming, both on radio and on television. Without the public service, as the report shows, we would essentially have entertainment. It is worth highlighting at this level the role of RTP2. For those who dream of privatization of RTP and even the annihilation of RTP2 this report should be read aloud. According to the report, RTP2 has an essential role in the diversity of programming, both news and entertainment; without RTP2, childhood would not have an open-label programming worthy of that name; and it is also RTP2 that contributes most to the promotion of cultural diversity. 70 % of all such programming of the four generalist channels is programming of RTP2. The second note I wanted to leave is about the worrying tendency of predominance of commercial content and content in the United States. There are fourteen channels, of which are analyzed, which do not comply with the minimum requirements laid down by the law of European works, especially in child-young programming, which is one of the areas where there is no lack of good content to be made available. from this point of view, the Panda Canal is a scandal: 0, 01 % dedicated to European works and is also the channel, of all that are analyzed, which has the lowest number of programming hours and the largest number of advertising and self-promotion hours. The third note I wanted to leave is about the progressive transformation of most people into customers of cable subscription services. They were the majority in 2012. This obviously has a relationship with the TDT, with the flop, the bad business of the TDT, which was very much below what it should and which does not even provide the public channels that exist in the cable, such as the RTP Information and the RTP Memory. And the question remains: if this model of paying for access to television, which was an unimaginable model 15 years ago, is a trend that is considered positive. It is certainly positive for companies, but I think we will agree that it is not a positive trend for people. The last note I wanted to leave is about the increasing power of certain companies. The report alerts that Sonaecom and Zon already accounted for 73% of the assets in 2012. Are we not concerned about this absolutely dominant position? Is it not dangerous for the plurality and diversity of the production and programming of content in Portugal to happen? I believe that this report has enough matters for reflection, know public policies and Parliament itself to take that reflection into account and be consistent with political action. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-08.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further entries, this debate and our agenda are thus concluded. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. and the agenda will be discussed in Question No 21 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Centered in the continuation of the policy of the troika by the Government and in the affirmation of the alternative policy of solutions for the country ( PCP ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 22 minutes.]]
