ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 11 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, they can open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco to do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by the President, the proposals of lein. 315 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Approves the arrangements for the access and exercise of the activity of audit services of cogeneration or production facilities from renewable energy sources, which falls to 11. the Commission, 316 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Approves the new special arrangements applicable to entities licensed in the Madeira Free Zone from 1 January 2015 which fall to 5. the Commission, 317 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates the National Inventory of Health Professionals, which falls to 9. the Commission, 318 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2015 - 2017, in accordance with Law No 17 / 2006 of 23 May, which approves the Framework Law on Criminal Policy, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 319 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July adopting the Basics of Civil Protection Act, which falls to 1. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 136 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 46 / 2015 of 9 April, which recognises the public interest of the Europarque Complex and disciplines the terms of acceptance of the donation in compliance with that property to the State, as well as of the consent of transfer of its use to the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ( PCP ). They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 856 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the freeness and dematerialization of school textbooks ( The Greens), 857 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — It stipulates that no child is deprived of a family doctor ( The Greens), 858 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — reintroduce password 4 /NP 18 and pass sub23 to all children and young students ( The Greens), 859 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates the Network of Reception and Rehabilitation Centres for Wild and Exotic Animals ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 860 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Reduce to 35 hours the maximum limit of the weekly working time for all workers by amending Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code and repealing Law No 68 / 2013 of 29 August establishing the duration of the normal working time for workers in public service ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission, 861 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Creates a school pass ( PCP ), 862 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defines the certification and adoption of school textbooks by ensuring their freeness ( PCP ), 863 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establish the National Programme for Combating Labour Precurity and Illegal Contraction ( PCP ), 864 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Extends the conditions for access and allocation of prenatal and family allowance, ensuring the universality of this social benefit to all children and young people ( PCP ), 866 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works, establishing a new working time modality — half-day ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 868 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Creates a mechanism for the protection of pregnant, puerperous and lactating workers ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 869 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the universality of pre-school education for children from the age of 4 years, making the first amendment to Law No 85 / 2009 of 27 August ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 870 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of an interdisciplinary permanent specialized committee for birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 871 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code by introducing a 50 % vehicle tax exemption for large families ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 872 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 176 / 2003 of 2 August 2003 approving the legal regime for the protection of family charges by increasing the amount paid on the steps of family allowance and prenatal allowance and the increase of single-parent families ( PS ), 873/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August by densifying the scheme of loans for school textbooks and by ensuring its articulation with the school social action regime in basic and secondary schools and with the competences of local authorities in the field ( PS ), 874 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the revision of the Labour Code is made by amending the scheme applicable to the group time bank ( PS ), 875 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November proposing the weighting of the number of dependents for the exemption of moderate rates ( PS ), 876 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, redefining the calculation of the family quota ( PS ), 877 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June is made at 35 hours a week as a normal period of work in the civil service ( PS ), and 878 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for access to invalidity and old age pensions by workers of the National Uranio Company, SA, which provides for the right to death or sickness compensation ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. In addition, draft resolutions 1408 / XII ( 4 ) were presented. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of Glyphosate ( BE ), 1410 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate night fishing in inland waters ( PS ) below 7. the Commission, 1411 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen the safety of local fishing vessels ( CFP ), 1412 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government extraordinary measures to support producers of milk for the Azores ( BE ), 1413/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends increased power of local fishing vessels' engines for greater safety of fishermen ( BE ), 1414/ XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of rotavirus vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme ( BE ), 1415 / XII ( 4 ). a ) — It proposes the recruitment of missing diagnostic and therapeutic technicians in the National Health Service ( SNS ) and the resumption of negotiation processes with the representative structures of workers for solving career problems ( CFP ), which goes down to 9. the Commission, 1416 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Rejects the continuation of the right-wing policy and proposes an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy ( PCP ), which goes down to 5. the Commission, 1417 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen primary health care in child health and in the provision of care to children and young people ( PCP ), 1418 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen the means of the Working Conditions Authority and establish a national plan to combat discrimination on the basis of maternity and paternity ( CFP ), 1419 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Measures for the realization of sexual and reproductive rights ( PCP ), 1420 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a public network of quality child support equipment at socially fair and affordable prices ( PCP ), 1421 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of accessibility to infertility treatments ( PCP ), 1423 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the rental of young people with a view to their effective emancipation ( CFP ), 1424 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Integrated Birth Incentive Solutions ( CFP ), 1425 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme, which analyses the relevance of inclusion in the same Type B Meningococcal vaccine programme and studies the effectiveness of vaccination against paediatric gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1426 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen support for children and the family ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends a cross-sectional set of measures to deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 1428 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — proposes an extended debate in society on the problem of birth and submits concrete proposals to the Government for the replacement of measures promoting reconciliation between family life and personal life ( PS ) and 1429 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government, within the framework of birth policies, the establishment of an agency that monitors public family policies to replace the former Family Policy Promotion Commission and the former Family Advisory Council ( PS ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u3	We now turn to the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of the following bills (generally) and draft resolutions: Bill No. 813 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of pregnant, puerperous or lactating women in the Labour Code ( BE ) ; Bill No. 814 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Equal parenthood for the protection of women in maternity and employment ( BE ) ; Bill No. 815 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Reimposes rights in access to family allowance ( BE); draft resolution No 1298 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Social responses to early childhood ( BE) ; draft resolution No 997 / XII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the National Health Service ensure the preservation of gametes of patients at risk of infertility due to oncological treatments (BE); draft resolution No 1414 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of rotavirus vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme ( BE ) ; Bill No. 856 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes the freeness and dematerialization of school textbooks ( The Greens); Bill No. 857 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — stipulates that no child is deprived of a family doctor ( The Greens); Bill No. 858 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — reintroduce Pass 4 /NP 18 and Pass Sub23 to all children and young students(The Greens) ; Bill No. 816 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthening maternity and paternity rights ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 861 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Create a school pass ( PCP ) ; Bill No. 862 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Defines the certification and adoption arrangements for school textbooks, ensuring their freeness ( PCP ) ; Bill No. 863 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establish the National Programme for Combating Labour Precurity and Illegal Contraction ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 864 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — extends the conditions for access and allocation of prenatal and family allowance, ensuring the universality of this social benefit to all children and young people ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1417 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen primary health care in children's health and the provision of care to children and young people ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1418 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Strengthen the means of the Working Conditions Authority and establish a national plan to combat discrimination on the basis of maternity and paternity ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1419 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Measures to enforce sexual and reproductive rights ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1420 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of a public network of quality child support equipment at affordable and socially fair prices ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1421 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — ensuring accessibility to infertility treatments ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1423 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to support the rental of young people with a view to their effective emancipation ( CFP ) ; draft resolution No 1424 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Integrated Birth Incentive Solutions ( CFP ) ; Bill No. 866 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works by establishing a new working time modality ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 867 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 868 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — establishes a mechanism for the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 869 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishs the universality of pre-school education for children from the age of 4 years and makes the first amendment to Law No 85 / 2009 of 27 August ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 870 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Establishment of an Interdisciplinary Standing Special Committee for Birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 871 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amend the Vehicle Tax Code by introducing a 50 % vehicle tax exemption for large families ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1425 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of anti-pneumococcal vaccine in the National Vaccination Programme, which analyses the relevance of inclusion in the same Type B Meningococcal vaccine programme and studies the effectiveness of vaccination against paediatric gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1426 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to strengthen support for children and the family ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; draft resolution No 1427 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends a cross-sectional set of measures to deepen the protection of children, families and promote birth ( PSD and CDS-PP ) ; Bill No. 872 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 176/2003 of 2 August 2003 approving the legal regime for the protection of family charges by increasing the amount paid at the levels of family allowance and prenatal allowance and the increase of single-parent families ( PS ) ; Bill No. 873 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 47 / 2006 of 28 August by densifying the scheme of loans for school textbooks and by ensuring its linkage with the school social action scheme in basic and secondary schools and with the competences of local authorities in the field ( PS ) ; Bill No. 874 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended 10th Act No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the revision of the Labour Code by amending the scheme applicable to the group time bank ( PS ) ; Bill No. 875 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — The sixth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November proposing the weighting of the number of dependents for the purposes of the exemption of moderate rates ( PS ) ; Bill No. 876 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, redefining the calculation of the family quota ( PS ) ; Bill No. 877 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Amended third Act No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 at 35 hours a week as a normal period of work in the civil service ( PS ) ; draft resolution No 1428 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — proposes an extended debate in society on the problem of birth and submits concrete proposals to the Government for the replacement of measures promoting reconciliation between family life and personal life ( PS ) ; draft resolution No 1429 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government, within the framework of birth policies, the establishment of an agency that monitors public family policies to replace the former Family Policy Promotion Commission and the former Family Advisory Council ( PS ). The theme, which is common to different approaches, is that of birth. Mrs. Members, the parliamentary groups have already entered the Bureau. Members who will present the various initiatives that bring the debate today, which I will indicate: Catarina Martins, BE, Heloísa Apollonia, Os Verdes, Paula Santos, PCP, Luís Montenegro, PSD, Teresa Caeiro, CDS-PP, and Sonia Fertuzinhos, PS. To present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country is on top of a watch bomb. The ticking they hear is the demographic crisis that is undermining the present of hundreds of thousands of families and the future of the country. We tend to talk a lot about numbers in these debates, but few, as we will have here today, translate life projects and the legitimate right to happiness of the people who make this country. Since this government took possession and within a short period of three years, the number of births has risen from 100 000 to 85 000 — the emergency button has to be connected! It is true that the country's natural balance has been negative for six years, but what happened in the last three years is not parallel throughout Europe. Portugal is a shrinking country. Only last year, among children who are not born and young people who emigrate, Portugal lost 60 000 people. It's 58 people less every day. When this debate is over, we will have fewer than four people living in Portugal. It has been this rhythm that the right, as it speaks in families and in passing all its measures by family visa, imposed on the country. Beyond the statistics, we are talking about people of flesh and bone, with a specific name, who, wanting, have no children. And they don't have because they can't, if they're willing. They cannot because they do not have a job, because their professional lives are increasingly precarious and the expectations of the future that they have do not allow them to have confidence in taking this step and because with the coming wages they do not find a daycare that does not cover them 20 % or 30 % of the average wage to put their child there. That's what the right is trying to do today. We all know and all data indicate that the fall in birth is associated with the social and economic crisis, as well as the absence of public day care or day care facilities with affordable prices. And about that the PSD and the CDS don't say a word doesn't even propose a line. It's like people don't have kids any more because they do. The right, which loves to speak in families, believes that the concrete life of these people is independent of what is going on in the country. It's not! The policies that are followed, the state of the economy, the deregulation of the labour market and the increasing pressure of businesses for women not to exercise their rights have costs. A family with average wages saw their tax burden increase by 30 %, while at the same time losing the right to family allowance, that the bus pass of children more than it doubled and that the light account shot. With poverty rates increasing, especially among children, what did the government do? He cut the RSI (social income of insertion) to tens of thousands of families with children. The few who kept it saw the average value of 94 € for each minor to go to 53 € — this value is much lower than the cost of a daycare even in the lowest step! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to tell you the story of Patrice. Patrícia had been working in the store for more than five years in an international garment chain. She got pregnant. While on maternity leave, the company moved its place of work to another establishment where Patrícia had never gone. The shop where they put it closed a few days later and the Patrícia, enjoying her maternity leave, was fired due to the termination of the job. Of course, the job that was yours for five years—and I had never met another—was kept, but was attributed to someone who had no children or expected to. This until the day that this woman, too, wants to have a child. You will be fired by this group that is present on all the major commercial surfaces of the country. Patrícia is not a single case. Pregnant women and maternity leave are dismissed every day in the country in which, theoretically, the law protects them. Women seeking employment must ensure that they do not even dream of being mothers to have a chance. And when they are, if they are not fired, they live the Calvary to enforce their most basic rights. More: There are nurses in public hospitals who are pressured not to breastfeed! This week, in Fafe, the case of a woman who was punished by the company was denounced by the Act itself (Working Conditions Authority) which placed her in an isolated and unoccupied room for claiming to breastfeed her child. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do not ask us to do this debate by whitening all the policies that have brought us to this point, nor by whitening the escape that the right does today, here, in this debate. The proposals that the right presents to us are not real commitments and, at best, they may respond to a minority of families with higher incomes. PSD and CDS run away from what it counts. for our part, we consider it essential to respond to most people in this country who want to have children and respond to what weighs on the balance when making the decision. The Block's proposals point to: to protect the employment of pregnant women and on maternity leave, prohibiting dismissal in any type of contract and in any circumstances; to promote equality in parental responsibility to combat discrimination at the time of recruitment; to seriously penalize employers who do not respect the rights of parents and mothers, transforming labour abuse into very serious counter-ordination — the denial of basic rights to pregnant women cannot be combated with the mere loss of public subsidies, which many companies do not even have. It is necessary, yes, heavy-duty— to create conditions of support for the first child, which never existed and which are increasingly necessary. In Portugal, the monthlyity of the daycare centers is higher than the university tips and there is no public offer. There must be a public offer of daycare, support for the authorities to set up them, and instead of doing what the government wants, which is to end the offer of social security lovers, on the contrary, that offer must be increased. Finally, we also present proposals in the area of health that respond to the weaknesses already detected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, PSDs and CDSs like to talk about families and births, as they do with the flag that they always use as pin on the lapel. It's just to make a number and look good in the photograph. The Block is not in this debate for a family portrait, but for the right to live and have children in Portugal with dignity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u5	Mrs. Members, there was an understanding among the banks that, following the order of political initiatives other than those of today's agenda, was now given the floor to the representative of the PSD to present the legislative initiatives of the PSD and the CDS-PP. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very important day in the history of Parliament and in the history of this legislature. It is true that today it will not end the political differences that separate the various benches and the parties with parliamentary representation, but it is a day when the representatives of the people discuss, deepen and project the pursuit of a national plan: remove some obstacles to birth, the decision of Portuguese families have children and build the future of the country. What is at stake today, in this debate, is alignment, formalizing a national strategy that mobilizes society, which compromises Parliament, the current government and those who follow it, the institutions and the whole society.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u8	The objective is ambitious, but it is crucial for the well-being of the Portuguese, for the financial health of the State, for the preservation of the social state, for the growth of the economy and for the support of employment. Demography is at stake, economic and social development is at stake and the organization of the State is at stake. When the PSD challenged the country and challenged the parties of this House for the deepening of this debate, many disenfranchised the importance of the topic and many others wanted to draw hasty illusions saying that we would not be consequenceant. Today, looking at the proposals of all parties, which I want, with democratic respect, to welcome here, we can draw two conclusions. First of all, the conclusion that we have, have and will have different views of the organization of the State, of the organization of family life, of the organization of the economy. The debate and the proposals discussed here today point to these differences, which I believe is good for democracy. It is also the rule of democracy which will approve or reject, in this and the following legislatures, the options of the legislator, both the legislature and the government. Secondly, the conclusion that, regardless of these differences, there is a convergence and commitment field that is possible to fill. There are positive contributions from all parties which allow an approximation of positions at some points. in this sense, I would like to transmit to you and propose the following: as regards the proposed bills, those that are generally approved will naturally have the space of discussion in the specialty for the intervention of all parliamentary groups. As for the draft resolutions, as they do not normally have this space for deepening and debate, we are available not to vote for them from now on and to refer them to the model committees to decide, to integrate, in resolution of the Assembly of the Republic, the recommendations that have obtained majority support. I believe that this model does not adulterate the positions of each party and allows the most consensual parts and contents to be used. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, made this framework, the PSD and the CDS-PP bring to this debate three draft resolutions and six draft laws. Our purpose is to contribute to the design of a national strategy that promotes an articulation and coordination of public policies that favors the protection of children and the family and removes several obstacles to birth. in this sense, our recommendations range from the labor and fiscal areas to the National Health Service and the social equipment network. It is our conviction that many of these measures have immediate enforceability, either because they are enrolled in the Administration's activity or because they have reduced financial impacts. This includes the creation of the family portal, information campaigns, extension of the pneumococcal vaccine to the National Vaccination Programme, legislative changes in the protection of children and young people at risk and in the laws of adoption, the development of the so-called 'ticket teaching'. Other measures lack greater weight and financial effort, but we do not consider them to be enforceable by the Government either. Therefore, we point out, for example, the need to encourage and stimulate the hours of operation of the day care network or of the day care network, either when parents have different hours, or in non-school periods. Therefore, we have also pointed out from now on that in the next Parliament we can restore the 4. o is 5. the steps of the family allowance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] in the legislative plan, our six proposals cover: the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers; the strengthening of the conditions of parental leave, part-time work and time flexibility; the establishment of a permanent specialized committee dedicated to the topic of birth in the Economic and Social Council; the recognition of a tax benefit for the acquisition of vehicles by numerous families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u9	All these legislative impulses are important and correspond to concerns that are also in other projects of other parties and other benches. I have left two proposals to the end that seem to me to highlight in this opportunity: the first in the education system. We present a bill that establishes the universality of pre-school education for children who reach the age of 4 years and the evaluation of, in the future, consecrated this same universality from the age of 3. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] This amendment is essential for the development of children, but it is, above all, essential for ensuring the conditions for reconciliation between working life and family life. We are convinced that the equipment network and available capacity allow this measure to be implemented on the ground as early as 2016 / 2017. Finally, within the framework of public administration, we propose the establishment of the so-called 'half-day'. It is the possibility of parents and grandparents being able to benefit from a normal period of work reduced to half by taking 60 % of the salary and not losing time and old age rights. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u10	I have already seen that some have hurriedly concluded that this measure may have little accession. Let me tell you what assurances in this area I believe no one will have, because it will have to be each father and mother, each grandfather and each grandmother doing their own weighting. But one thing is certain: from now on, they will have this possibility of gold being able to reconcile family life with professional life, which they could not so far do. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what a challenge this is to reverse our demographic definition! What a challenge this is to remove the obstacles to birth keeping an efficient state, healthy public finances and a rising and growing economy! What a great challenge, indeed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! But, believe me, we are talking about our future, the future of our community and the future of our country! in Parliament, we discussed this challenge, we approved reports, we heard the country, we heard personalities and institutions and we will continue to do so. in Parliament, we all presented bills and recommendations and I am convinced that everyone will continue to do so in the future. But this must also be a design of governments, of all governments, of the current government and of the governments that will follow, and above all it must be a design of the whole Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u12	This day is not, for us, a point of arrival, it is, for us, a point of departure. It is a starting point for our future, for the next decades in our country. That is why, and given what I have heard before this speech, I wanted to finish by telling all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must all put our 'partisan' part of this debate. I want to congratulate and congratulate all the Members of this Parliament today in a very successful way. I believe that the way in which we are going to discuss these 38 legislative initiatives today recognises the importance that everyone has given to this issue and all have given it this design. I am even convinced that this capacity for initiative and that this debate would lend Parliament and dignify parliamentarians. So I end by wishing good work for everyone, for the sake of birth, for the sake of Portugal, for the sake of the future and for those who will come after us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u13	Mr Luís Montenegro, you have written to ask questions. Deputies Catarina Marcelino, of the PS, José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, João Oliveira, of the PCP, and Heloísa Apollonia, of The Greens. Once you have informed that you are responding together, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Marcelino from now on.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u14	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, the PSD has neither challenged the country nor promoted any debate that could lead to a policy strategy for the promotion of birth. So much so that each party presents itself today, with its proposals, having announced the PSD that it will vote against some of them. Let's talk about this process that interests the country, that interests people. The presentation of an incentive package to birth, given the situation of permanent austerity promoted by the government for four years, can only be a hidden strategy... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and it is the only justification for this package at the end of a six-month parliamentary term. We watched a real show-off on the commissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u15	Oh...!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u16	We saw civil society being heard, dozens of entities coming in and going out to be heard, in overlap, by different committees, in an azafama that would even say frenetic. at the end of this, the « mountain has made a rat », because in the conclusions of the 12 reports of the 12 committees, only the proposals that were of interest to the majority were considered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Everything that was criticized — and it was many — because I attended many hearings and heard many criticisms — was simply ignored. I give as an example the question of the 35-hour working day in the public administration, in which the unions came here to say that they were fundamental to conciliation, and what happened? The report of COFAP ( Committee on Budgets, Finance and Public Administration ) was not included in the report.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u17	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u18	PSD has already announced that it will vote against the 35-hour replacement...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u19	He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u20	...and the PS challenges most to review this position. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, in this Chamber, a show-off continues. Most people realize that they are presenting a package of measures that will return confidence to Portuguese and Portuguese to have more children. The Government, at the beginning of the legislature, made a great deal of reference to the proposals in the area of gender equality and conciliation presented for agreement in social dialogue. The majority today present a set of proposals under the Labour Code. What is the majority telling the government when they put these proposals? It is simple: you are saying that the government has been unable, you are saying that the government is incompetent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the face of all this, we are here today watching a real deal and we have only one question: do you really believe that Portuguese and Portuguese people, in their real lives, believe in this scene? Oh, my God! Mr Luís Montenegro, I do not think so and your starting point is not today, it was four years ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u21	The next question is from the Left Block. Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u22	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, we know that, after all, the PSD and CDS measures to support children, preschools and subsidies are for the next legislature — it was the first relevant information in this debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The majority have approached this debate with an emblematic proposal, which is that of the half-day, i.e. the possibility of public servants working half of the time and earning less than 40%, presenting this as a mechanism that would contribute to the right to become a family. This very emblematic measure is indeed, Mr President, a fire in sight. First of all, why is it only for public servants and, secondly, I ask who today can abdicate almost half his salary? Still upstairs having kids? Only those who have large wages can actually benefit from this measure. An employee who earns 600 € is not going to get 360 € and have more time than suddenly he will have children or ponder more. in fact, Mr President, the part-time presented by the CDS and the PSD as the solution for the reconciliation between family life and work has been an obstacle in our country to birth and not an incentive. For a simple reason: in a country with low wages, part time is a factor of poverty. Thirty percent of part-time workers are poor or at risk of poverty, 30% is the risk of poverty among part-time workers. That is why, in our country, most part-time workers are not even voluntary workers, people do not want but that is what there is, in addition to double discrimination that often this work reality has about women. Mr President, this leads us to look at the one who is the great enemy of birth, which is precariousness and unemployment. The PSD here presents symbolic changes to employment contracts, but the problem is that today most young people do not have employment contracts. What the austerity policy you have defended has produced was this reality: the overwhelming majority of young people who want to have children are unemployed or precarious and, if we add to this immigration, we have the background that explains the demographic crisis. The question of birth, honourable Member, is not a moral, mental issue. People want to have children, but they can't, because they don't have a way of projecting their future. And the problem is, in fact, the development model that you have defended. Six in every 10 works that are created in our country are internships and, while the model is this, there are no symbolic measures that are worth us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u23	The PCP question follows. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u24	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, the CFP Parliamentary Group will have the opportunity to make its intervention, which will bring to the debate the overall perspective on this issue of birth and in particular the set of integrated proposals it brought to discuss this problem, but I would like to leave some questions to you about the intervention it has made. The honourable Member made a full intervention of PSD intentions on these issues of birth which do not resist the confrontation with the practice and political options of the PSD and the current government. Mr President, it is necessary to encourage birth, create conditions to solve the problem of low birth in Portugal, after four years to insist on policies for the deregulation of working hours, incompatibility of professional life with personal and family life, cuts in wages, cuts in social benefits, dismantling of public child support services, support for youth, incentives for emigration, cuts in family allowances, is a contrary practice to the intentions that the PSD brings to this debate today. But, Mr President, how do we not want to discuss intentions but, yes, options, because it is the discussion about the options and the concrete proposals that this debate should take place, I would like to ask you two questions: why postpone and why put the questions of birth as an alternative to other rights? Why postpone, Mr Luís Montenegro, the option for family allowance? Why postpone the replacement of the payment of the family allowance in the 4. o, 5. it's 6. the steps, when this is one of the central measures to give the Portuguese an idea, a sense of incentive to birth in terms of social policies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u25	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u26	Why postpone this option if it can now be assumed, with its importance in promoting and encouraging birth? And then, Mr Luís Montenegro, why put the questions of birth as an alternative to other rights? Mr Luís Montenegro, the question of half-day work is the option that the PSD proposes that Portuguese workers make between having children or having a whole salary. Mr President, this is not a proposal to encourage birth, it is a proposal that puts them in a dilemma, and a dilemma that, for many workers, will have no other remedy but to be in favour of receiving wages, because the generality of Portuguese workers, the overwhelming majority of workers, does not have the means to exempt their wages from having more time for their families. Therefore, this proposal, Mr Luís Montenegro, risks not being a real incentive to birth, but an obstacle to creating conditions so that Portuguese workers can have children according to their options, according to their family constitution projects, but also assuming maternity and paternity with the social function and the importance they have. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u27	The question is followed by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u28	Ms. Heloísa Apollonia (The Greens). — Madam President, Mr Luís Montenegro, perhaps you should begin by thanking all the Members for their good work but, if I may, I will return with the wish of common sense to the debate which we are going to hold from here forward on this matter. To understand this common sense, Mr, I would like to ask you a question which I consider crucial. I would like to know whether or not the economic conditions of families have to do with the reality of birth. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. » Very good! We agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u29	It's like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u30	Ms. Heloísa Apollonia (The Greens). — The honourable Member said that 'it is so and which'. So I want to say the following: you have, in fact, passed — we must recognise! — the legislation all speaks of birth, but it has also passed the legislation all to withdraw economic conditions to families. What is the consistency of this speech and of this practice, honourable Member? Oh, my God! That's what you're going to have to explain. Now, the honourable Member, in the part he has done, has confirmed that the Government, throughout the legislature, has gone after machadadas in relation to the design—that is how it characterized — of birth, and this, of course, deserves a political explanation, Mr. Then there are other questions about your proposals that may deserve some explanation. You do not look at the question of working hours, do not look at the need to adapt working hours to family monitoring. No, go to day care. Children spend more time on daycare and parents pay more. That is the solution they bring to the country. But this is something we have to discuss, of course. I'm here making a first assessment and asking for a reaction. Then the gentlemen. PSD Members don't think about dignifying salaries, they think about cutting wages — half time, less pay! What about the economic conditions of families, Mr? Oh, my God! I believe that it is also about this issue that we must discuss seriously and promote our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u31	To answer that, I give the floor to Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the colleagues who spoke and asked questions. I begin with the first question by Mrs Catarina Marcelino of the PS, saying that I must even note here something that seems evident to all who are accompanying this debate: of all the parties that have already taken the floor, clearly the most radical is the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party appears in this debate with a view to the matter completely limited, almost participating in the debate in a shameful manner. In fact, this also occurred when, last Friday, at the end of the afternoon, they devalued it and almost anticipated it until they would not participate in it, because we were at the end of the legislature, but then, at the last hour, they went to the drawer to look for some projects that were marine, which had already been presented at other levels of this legislature and which did not directly have to do with the question of birth. But that is what can be done at the last minute so as not to be ashamed of being the only party that came to this debate in Parliament without any proposal. But, Madam Member, let me say the following: this PS is, in fact, an increasingly undisclosed party, because it is a party that has no causes, has no ideas, is ashamed to participate in discussions, wants time to pass to get to the elections to see if anything happens... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u33	It's a very weak answer! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u34	I must say that, in fact, it is increasingly difficult to be a PS Member in this House because it is increasingly difficult to be confronted with a serious debate, with positive contributions from all the banks and not have what to say, if you want to compromise with nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u35	What you're saying is you don't know anything about family policies!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u36	The honourable Member spoke but did not, for example, speak about pre-school education. Do you agree or disagree with universality from the age of four, or even from the age of three? Oh, my God! [[Do you agree or not?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u37	Do you agree or disagree about my day? They could say: « I agree but not so, I have my proposal here». But no, they forgot, they did not have time and therefore did not prepare the proposals. Mrs. Members of the PS, let me say, seriously, that, as a parliament, I would like this debate to have more depth, that if you were able to abstain from this obsession with electoral gains, with the need to speak ill of the government, and to concentrate more on the future, until you want to appear to the Portuguese as part of that future. For whom do you want to govern, does the honourable Member think that the projects presented here and the intervention it produced recently are a contribution to credible your proposal? Do you think the Portuguese will trust a party as undisclosed as the PS is today? I don't think so, but the problem is yours! I repeat, I don't think so, but the problem is yours. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u38	Keep going! Don't rush!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u39	There is Mr Deputy, who talks a lot about the parties. Ask the floor and say what you have to say about the debate, okay? Oh, my God! Mr José Soeiro, the Left Block participated in this debate, presented its proposals and, if it is done, promoted until the agenda of the debate. I want to recognise this here, in a very clear way, and tell you that the issues you have raised are relevant but you are not right. Firstly, he spoke of the fact that we are planning measures for the forthcoming legislatures. That's right, it's true, but the strategy to remove the barriers to birth in Portugal lacks at least a decade and a half to two decades of implementation. If we want to reverse the demographic definition of our country, we will not be able to solve the problem whether we are legislating at the end of a legislature or whether we are doing so at the end. In fact, we are designing a strategy for the next two decades and that will produce results in a mediated way. from this point of view, it is clear that we are not in a position to change everything from one day to another. But we've changed a few things, we've been consistent. The honourable Member spoke about the middle of the day. Half-day is indeed a measure that, I believe, can greatly promote the reconciliation of family life with working life. He says that it is only for whom he can, and even used the example of a family member, a father or a mother who earns 600 euros, who, having made their accounts, may not be able to adhere to a plan of these, working half-time and earning only 60% of the salary. I want to tell you that I don't make that judgment for anyone. in the law, I assign this possibility to grandparents and parents and each one makes their assessment. But I must tell you one thing: I have many doubts that there are no public administration workers who have incomes of EUR 600 and who are interested to such an extent, regardless of whether they have a low salary. This does not mean that, in the organization of your family life, you find no way to promote the reconciliation of your family life with your professional life. It is a great difference that we have: you, at BE, judge greatly the intentions and weights of people; we give this space of freedom to each one. And there is one thing for the legislator: it is to create the conditions and the possibility and that is what we do now. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u40	Would you like to conclude, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u41	On the subject of precariousness, I also want to tell you that we have a recommendation which, for example, aims to have a national programme to combat precariousness and to encourage end-to-end work contracts to be transformed into unfinished work contracts. Mr. João Oliveira and Mr. Heloísa Apollonia wanted to say, trying to synthesize the answers, which it is clear that economic conditions also have an influence on the decisions of families, and we are also working on it. What I did not want to turn this debate into what we are going to have next Friday with the Prime Minister, and what we have here every week about the evolution of the country's economic and social situation. We have many opportunities to do so. So also in this area we are not afraid and we think that we are doing enough for families to have more conditions to have children. Finally, there is an answer that I cannot but give to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who came here saying that what was important was not to see the perspective of articulating daytime hours, for example, with the schedules of professionals in the perspective of equipment, therefore, of the social offer that is given, that is, what was concerned was the working time, as saying that what is most relevant is the working time of the person concerned. Mrs Deputy, have you thought, for example, of the National Health Service professionals who serve in hospitals, who work 24 hours a day? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Have you ever thought about companies that work for shifts and have, in order to keep themselves competitive and have a viable business, the need to work 24 hours a day? When, in this draft resolution, we talk about reconciling the differentiated hours of workers, in the Public Administration or in the private sector, with the schedules of social equipment is precisely to prevent, because there are people who inevitably have working hours that are not those of the normal everyday record. I believe that this difference is very easy to understand and I hope that, with this answer, it has favored this understanding. A final word, Madam President, for once again to congratulate all the parties that are debating this issue in Parliament today and to say that we are in this debate without any 'partisan'. We are not thinking of having more or less one vote in the next elections because of this debate. [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]] This is a cause that we rise to look at the future, to look at those who follow us. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u42	You have the floor to present the initiatives of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I would like to address Mr Luís Montenegro in particular: The debate we are having here today is not something other than the 15-year debates and other debates we are going to have. What is important is to integrate not only into the 15-year debate but also in this debate. I believe that the honourable Member was actually very keen that we should not talk about economic conditions here, because, on economic conditions, you have many accounts on the design of birth, and that must be discussed here, Mr President. On the other hand, you have deregulated the working hours and, after this deregulation, this absurd enlargement of the working hours, want to compensate for the hours of daycare. We should consider whether that is the right way, and that is all the debate we have to do here. And you, however much you do not want, Mr Luís Montenegro, must also listen to and debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, The Greens consider that there is an important starting point for this debate: if we meet the average number of children per woman, we easily conclude that the real fertility index is significantly lower than the desired fertility index. from here a conclusion is easily withdrawn: there are many families that do not have children not because they do not want but because they understand that they cannot, that they do not have conditions for this. Now, what we have been watching, and we all have seen, is that also young people, today, are gaining autonomy increasingly later because they do not have the conditions to support themselves independently and, of course, to form a family safely, with all the project that can result from the constitution of a family. More data: INE assures us that the risk of poverty is more significant in families with children, and many other data here will naturally be revealed in this debate, but all this forces us to link the birth rate — here it is! — conditions of subsistence and income policy. However, since the government has done nothing other than withdrawing income from families, it is concluded that it has promoted an anti-natal policy. I believe that this must also be extremely clear. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the first debate in this Parliament about birth. last year, on 18 June, The Greens brought to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic a debate on birth, with a project that established the guiding principles of a policy of incentive to birth. Through this project, we propose to ensure safety and adequacy of working hours; we propose to ensure decent wages and combat precariousness; we propose to create conditions to reduce emigration, and we know, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that many young people are going to be a family out there because they are leaving the country; we propose the decisive ban on the dismissal of pregnant women in all circumstances; we propose the creation of a free public network of day care centres; we propose the replacement of family allowance, among many other extraordinarily important measures to encourage birth. The PSD and the CDS plunged this project that The Greens brought to the Assembly of the Republic and, in our perspective, that lead means that they do not want to go to the center of the matter. And I think that has already been made clear today: they do not want to go to the central issues! And the debate is losing, in this way. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: For this debate on birth, The Greens understood not to bring the project presented last year and that it was plummeted, but to implement some measures established in it, or some of the recommendations that were made there. So, we decided to create three bills, focused on three areas: education, health and transport. We therefore propose, through a bill, the dematerialization of school textbooks, to ensure their freeness. As we know, Portuguese families who have children at school have gross expenses with school textbooks—they have a very significant burden on school textbooks. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time to think that family budgets can be helped with the effective freeness of school textbooks and the dematerialization of school textbooks can lead us to this goal, so we all want to work in this direction. Another contribution to the issue of aid to family budgets is the bill which The Greens here bring about on transport, i.e. the replacement of the school pass. The fact that they have withdrawn discounts in school passes to students has increased the burden on family budgets and this replacement of discounts for all students is crucial for all Portuguese families. The other bill that The Greens here bring is related to the health sector and determines that each child born is assigned to a family doctor. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to ensure safety in the monitoring of children in the field of health, and we know how often this monitoring is difficult, not only for economic reasons but also for the provision of health services themselves. These are, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposals which the Greens bring here, as a contribution to this debate. [[PCP applause.]] [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u44	The Bureau shall not record any requests for clarification to the speaker. To speak on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Families don't have children, not because they don't want to, but because they can't. in recent decades, we have seen the depreciation of the social function of motherhood and paternity as an essential element of replacement of generations. From right-wing policy a perspective of accountability for families, especially women, for low births, when this responsibility is successive governments. Behind the issues of birth raised by the parties of right-wing politics is a retrograde conception, which seeks to see the light of the day but must remain in the past, as regards the social function of motherhood and paternity and the role of women in the family, in the world of work and in society. It is necessary to eliminate conditionalisms that prevent families from deciding consciously, freely and responsibly the time and number of children. Integrated measures must be taken to encourage birth giving trust and stability to couples of childbearing age in order to take the decision to have children. This is the contribution which the CFP intends to make to families and the country in this debate, with the presentation of a wide range of concrete solutions. So we propose: a national programme to combat precariousness, putting an end to instability, illegal recruitment and exploitation of workers; the strengthening of maternity and paternity rights, including the free choice of the couple, for the benefit of the maternity and paternity leave of 150 or 180 days, ensuring their payment at 100 %; the extension of the compulsory leave of women from six to nine weeks, and the paternity leave from 10 to 20 days; the creation of the pre-term leave, paid at 100 %, and the fight against the illegal dismissal of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers; effective monitoring of the fulfilment of maternity and paternity rights by strengthening the means of the Act ; The extension of the criteria for the allocation of family allowance, ensuring its universality, through the replacement of the 4. o, 5. it's 6. the steps and the increase by 25 % of the 1 and 2. the steps; the extension of the criteria for granting the prenatal allowance; the creation of a public network of children's equipment at affordable prices; the allocation of a family doctor to all users, in particular pregnant women and children and young people; the implementation of sexual and reproductive rights; Access to health care for children and young people, ensuring child health, inclusion of anti-pneumococcal, type B anti-pneumococcal vaccines and anti-rotavirus vaccines in the National Vaccination Plan, health promotion and mental health; accessibility to infertility treatments, through increased public drug breeding centres assisted, as well as their response capacity, allowing the progressive elimination of waiting lists, the increase in number of cycles and the free availability of medicines for the treatment of infertility; the freeness of school textbooks for all students in compulsory education and the creation of free school pass for students with school and shared social activity, 50 % for all other students; Access to housing for young people. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD/CDS-PP government has been engaged in political speeches, expressing its concerns about low birth. But this speech is not consistent with the government practice of PSD and CDS-PP. The concrete policies that have implemented over the past four years have not promoted births, quite the contrary, have led to their reduction, in a more pronounced way, from about 100,000 annual births to just over 80 000. They cut wages, destroyed thousands of jobs, promoted precariousness, unemployment and emigration, increased the tax burden on employment income, removed family allowance and social income from inclusion to thousands of children and young people. Is this how they intend to encourage birth, exacerbating the already difficult living conditions of workers and families? During the governance of the PSD and CDS-PP there were few times that we witnessed attempts to bleach the consequences of the policy of impoverishment and exploitation imposed by workers, the people and the country. If, in fact, the concern of the Government, the PSD and the CDS-PP with the reduction of birth is serious, which demonstrate it, they demonstrate by breaking up with this direction. Incentive policies for birth cannot alternatively put workers' rights, i.e. it is not fair for workers to choose, either for having a child or for their full salary. That is why we ask: is it an incentive for workers who do not pay 40 % of their wages to be born? But who can exclude part of your salary and consider this an incentive to birth? Oh, my God! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you just don't see who doesn't want to see. The concrete reality of the country and families shows that having the family you want is not for whoever you want, it is for whom you can. Inversion of low birth is not resolved by minor changes in circumstances to perpetuate the same policy that led to the deterioration of the living conditions of workers and the people and led to the reduction of birth. It is not by chance that the last time there was a significant increase in birth, contrary to the declining trend, was after 25 April, a moment of significant rise in the living conditions of the people and of enormous confidence and hope in the future. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u46	Like 40 years ago, ensuring dignified living conditions, confidence and stability in the future, we can have a more sound future and a more positive demographic evolution. The implementation of policies to encourage birth implies the failure of the right-wing policy and the adoption of an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy; a policy that realizes the maternity and paternity conscious, free and responsible; that protects children and young people and enhances their integral development, ensuring all economic and social conditions, and that ensures employment with rights and security, enabling women to play an active role in society, in all its dimensions and, in particular, in the compatibility of the professional plan with the personal and family plan; a policy that enhances and recognizes the social function of motherhood and paternity as an essential element for the future of generations and of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u47	The Bureau also does not record requests for clarification from the speaker. For an intervention on behalf of the PS, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not by chance that the Government does not participate in this debate, it is not by chance that the parliamentary groups of the majority are taking on themselves from the very beginning. And the reason is just one: the government is neither wanting to be in this debate, nor the majority want the government here to try to hide and disguise the governance of the last almost four years! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, we are not at the beginning of the legislature, we are not, even in the middle of the legislature, we are five months from the legislative elections and three months from the end of this legislature! Therefore, five months from the legislative elections and three months from the end of this legislature, today's debate must begin by confronting the majority with the reality of day-to-day families facing and facing today, four years after the start of your functions and the functions of the Government that support them. You remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, of your strategy based on the idea, that they have, without hesitation, executed expansionist austerity? You remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, of the Prime Minister's enthusiasm to assume that he wanted to surprise and go beyond the troika, what was planned in the initial memorandum? Do you remember each of the state budgets that approved, year after year, when they got to cut three times more than was expected in social support, where they cut twice as much as planned in education and health, in which they cut wages, cut pensions, cut Christmas allowance and cut holiday allowance? You remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, Minister Vítor Gaspar and the enormous increase in taxes on families? Do you remember the Prime Minister assuming that the solution for our country was to impoverish and that the solution for young people was to emigrate? Finally, you remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, that all this would be done under the motto 'cost what it costs'? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, the Government may pretend to be dead in this debate in order not to take over its governance, the majority can take account of and present proposals as if these almost four years had not existed. however, Portuguese and Portuguese in general, and families in particular do not, unfortunately, have how to escape the difficulties of worsening their living conditions in these last almost four years. It's just that these four years, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has cost the country a lot and it has cost families too much. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know, and we have an obligation to know — national and international literature is vast — that there are three decisive factors for families and their decision to have children: employment, income and stability. What have been the consequences of the political options of this government and of the majority in these areas? Employment has fallen to more than one decade, unemployment has increased as never since there are records and remains at unsustainable levels, and more than half of the unemployed have no support. The cuts in wages, the huge increase in taxes and cuts in social support have crushed the income of families, who have had the greatest break ever in their income available in the last three and a half years. The uncertainty and instability caused by unemployment and the breakdown of income have dragged with it the precariousness, which is dramatic and marks the lives of many young people and many families. In view of this reality, the mandatory question in this debate is what was the impact of increased unemployment, the breakdown of family income and the instability of these last four years in the number of annual births at birth. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, the answer is as clear as brutal. If between 1990 and 2010 the number of births fell 13 % between 2010 and 2013 fell 18 %. I will be even clearer, because it seems you have not noticed: in the last three years, the number of births has fallen more than in the previous 20 years, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority! In view of this, the majority and the government have a responsibility they cannot and will not escape. In view of this fact, the majority and the Government have to respond and assume responsibilities for the unacceptable worsening of the living conditions of families, as they have to respond to the total whitening that the proposals they present attempt to do what the political options in the Government have been. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the proposals of the majority, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask what the majority thinks of proposals such as that which defines the possibility of half-day working hours of the public service, when this majority and this government have increased public officials' hours from 35 hours to 40 hours, without increasing wages but, on the contrary, cutting them, and when several ministries, including the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, have taken up in writing with their workers that the reason for reconciling working life with family life is not sufficient reason for assigning the hour of continuous working hours, exactly, hours that exist. Ladies and gentlemen! — to enable the best reconciliation between professional and private life. Prof. Joaquim Azevedo said today—it is in the news—that it would be important for the majority to look at this PS proposal for the importance it has in the debate of birth. Mr Luís Montenegro had the opportunity to say that he did not understand what this measure had to do with birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u49	I get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u50	So ask Prof. Joaquim Azevedo, who led the delegation that produced the study that the PSD asked him to explain to you, of course, Mr. Luís Montenegro! [[P.S.'s applause.]] What does the majority of the country think of proposals such as the one that recommends to the Government the strengthening of the protection of children and young people, when the government has irresponsibly weakened the capacity of these committees to protect children and young people today, what is the constitutional obligation of the State?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u51	We'll talk about it tomorrow, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u52	And what does the majority of the country think of proposals such as the establishment of a committee in the Economic and Social Council to deal with family and birth policies, when the Government has not been able to put a structure for monitoring family policies in this legislature, which has always existed in any government in democratic Portugal? More, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority: what the country wants to think of proposals such as the enlargement of pre-school to children 4 years of age when the government has weakened and invested in full-time school, which now covers fewer children than in the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u53	Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u54	in the statistics of the Ministry of Education, Mr. Deputy! It's just study, sir! But listen, and imagine—maybe, Mr. Members have not yet noticed, because this has been done without anyone knowing — what the country wants to think of this proposal, when the government has ended with discounts for seconds and more children in the monthly that families pay with foster care in institutions supported by the State? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, what the majority would like the country to think of proposals such as the replacement of the 4. o is 5. the steps of family allowance for the next government? So now the majority decide for the next government what they didn't do and didn't want to do for these four years? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a lesson that these almost four years confirm... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u55	Mrs. Member, just a moment. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the part is regiment, but there is a vocabulary that is excessive and therefore I would ask that we let the honourable Member continue and hear it.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. I hope this time will not be discounted in the time of the Socialist Party. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u57	I was saying, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a lesson that these almost four years confirm is that destroying is easy and fast, rebuilding will unfortunately be difficult and slow. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I am glad that you recognize yourself in my remarks, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. And if there are deep recessions, there are no miraculous recoveries, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It's gonna take a long time... [[Protests and laughter of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] I appreciate these manifestations as acknowledging the truth of what I am saying. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It'll take a long time to recover the brutal fall from birth. To ensure the recovery of the current situation facing the country and families, the PS does not hesitate in its priority: changing the policies of this government. The PS proposals in this debate are thus consistent with the proposals which the PS has put forward in this House, and most of them have a new opportunity to vote in favour in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u58	After this speech? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u59	It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority, on these four years of your full responsibility and responsibility for this government, whether he is present or absent, are not only the data that indicate that the policies of this government and this majority have failed, but also the proposals that the majority bring to this debate, which, wanting to be comprehensive and exhaustive in the areas of governance, are nothing more than confession of failed governance. Failure to support families, in general; Failure to support families with children, in particular; Failure to promote birth. It is this government that will be judged in the next elections, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is this government that will be rejected by the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u60	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered Mr Artur Rêgo's request for clarification. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos for her speech. in the questions that I have to put, and in the consideration of them, I want to add what was your intervention here, Mrs Deputy, with what was the intervention of Mrs Catarina Marcelino. I would start with the latter, saying that the honourable Member reminds me of those spear tips that are very good at kicking at the ball, which always mark a goal, but on their own ball. It's just self-sufficient, Mrs. Deputy! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u62	When the honourable Member says that these proposals and initiatives are all 'accountful', I think the honourable Member is referring to those of the Socialist Party, which were last time and repeating matters that already exist, have already been dealt with, are covered and many of these issues are already in force. With regard to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I find the memory exercise that the honourable Member here has made excellent, I think it is good, that it is politically a correct speech and, even to give her reason, I would like to take on it. Do you remember the country we inherited four years ago? the failure of this country? Do you remember, in 16 years of socialist governance, what they did to public debt, the conditions of the Portuguese economy?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u63	What about Barroso? Is that Santana Lopes?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u64	Do you remember the stagnation of the economy, the structural unemployment of nearly half a million Portuguese that we inherited? Do you remember that, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u65	They are the heirs of the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u66	The honourable Member recalls that the Socialist Party has eliminated the 4th. o is 5. the steps and retired social support to half a million Portuguese families?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u68	Do you remember? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Does the Socialist Party remember, in order to have money for PPPs, for TGVs and for studies and airports, to have frozen the national minimum wage, to have withdrawn the possibility of income progression to Portuguese lower incomes? Do you remember, Mrs. Member, that the Socialist Party had frozen minimum, social and rural pensions? Madam Member, I think this memory exercise is excellent and I also like to do it, but now I am moving on to a more concrete question. in our proposals are measures in the field of work: half-day in public service; parental leave; part-time work; flexibility of hours; adaptability; the group-hour bank. Madam Member, very clearly tell the Portuguese whether the Socialist Party is in favour or against any of these measures. in education, we propose universal access to pre-school education from 4 years. Say here whether the Socialist Party is in favour or against this measure. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u69	With regard to good public practices—because the State must have good practice, it cannot only require citizens to comply with the law—, we propose the prohibition of undertakings which have fired pregnant workers, lactating women or puerperies illegally, and which have been convicted of having access to funding, subsidies or public support. Are they against this proposal or not? Tell the Portuguese! We propose the establishment of an interdisciplinary specialized committee to be able to verify that all government measures in the various departments and ministries are pro-natality. Is it in favour or against this measure and this proposal? in the tax area, we propose the exemption of 50%...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u70	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u71	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask for a little tolerance, the same one that was previously given to other speakers.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u72	The honourable Member is doubling the time. I'd like to conclude, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u73	You're discounting at the time of our bench, Mr. President. Mrs Deputy, in the tax area, is the PS against or in favour of this exemption measure that we propose in the purchase of vehicles by families with three dependents? in the area of health, is PS against or in favor of the extension of the National Vaccination Program to the antipneumococcal vaccine?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u74	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u75	I conclude, Mr. President. Basically, Mrs Deputy, in addition to the rhetorical speeches she has made here and not touching on her proposals, what the parties of the majority want to know when, for the first time in this Parliament, we are discussing in an integrated way and for the interest of the Portuguese people the birth and the problem of demography, is whether the PS is against or in favour of our proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the time is short in the time of the parliamentary groups, but the requests for clarification are 2 minutes and, as such, cannot be 5 minutes, as they understand. To reply, you have the floor of Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u77	Mr President, Mr Artur Rêgo, I was hoping that in your question you could at least deny at least one of the facts I mentioned in the rostrum and which caused so many protests by the majority. The honourable Member did not disassemble a fact, which means that everything I said corresponds entirely to the truth. To answer your questions very quickly, I would like to point out that the CDS problem in this debate is the same as the CDS problem in the next elections. We know in these days that the CDS is viewed by the PSD as a disposable coalition partner. And you know why, Your Honor? Because the useful effect of the CDS on the government to defend Portugal and the Portuguese was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u78	What does that have to do with birth?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u79	What the Portuguese will ask you is where the taxpayer's CDS is, where the pensioner's CDS is, where the family visa CDS is, Mr. Where's the family visa CDS when the fall of birth was what?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u80	Answer what I asked you, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u81	And that is what you have to answer. The vote is Friday, honourable Member! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of the dramatic breakdown of birth in Portugal and its demography is a matter of extreme seriousness on which I felt there would be no disagreement between the various benches of this plenary. With all honesty, I thought that we would all agree that so few debates will be as relevant as this one that we would be stopping this afternoon. The Portuguese population pyramid is inverting at a vertiginous speed and if nothing is done, Mrs and Mrs. Members — in order to refocus the debate — by 18 years the number of retirees will be twice the number of young people entering the labour market, entering adulthood, i.e. entering as contributors to our social protection system. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u84	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u85	in my opinion, what the country requires of us is not that we are here in an ideological party guerrilla, but that we find viable solutions and constructive measures to solve this problem. Now, all these expectations of the CDS and the majority have been completely destroyed, because you prefer to make political and party guerrillas about everything and nothing, even when the issues are vital for the country. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the opposition, who were opposed to attending the debate that took place so far, beginning, in chronological order, with the Left Block, which says that everything is a mistake. But what's the mess? We, CDS, don't have the urge to think that all the Left Block initiatives are a mistake, but Mrs. Catarina Martins said it was all a mistake. But, finally, the words are with those who speak them. The PCP comes to say that in recent years there has been a family devaluation. What do you mean 'the last few years'? Is it from Vasco Gonçalves? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in favour of five-year plans. We are not in favour of communist policies like the one that existed in China, in which there was a control of the birth of a child per family, and had to be a boy! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u86	That's a deep talk about birth!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u87	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what you mean by 'last years', but it's not the years you miss. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, is more confrontational to attend the Socialist Party's speech, which does not present any proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u88	Comparative is your intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u89	The honourable Member asked questions, and more questions, and I ask you the following: is the situation in which the Socialist Party left the country forgotten? Are you forgetting the situation you left us in? Does the honourable Member remember a mechanism called a baby cheque announced by the Socialist Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u90	But what does that have to do with it?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u91	And from the familiar view of the CDS, Mrs. Teresa Caeiro, do you remember?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u92	Do you know how many baby checks were issued? Zero baby checks! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the CDS this debate is much more important than the party guerrilla you want to do. And we will not embark on what you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u93	To request clarifications, Members Mariana Aiveca and Heloísa Apolónia were registered. Mrs Mariana Aiveca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, in fact, the Left Bloc has said and reaffirms that this is an ambush when this government does not link birth policies to wage cuts and impoverishment policies. As the honourable Member will understand and certainly know as well as I have been four years of impoverishment policies and, of course, that these policies are intrinsically linked to the low birth rate, which has worsened over the past four years. Therefore, the Left Block maintains its position and its analysis of this problem. I would like to ask you two questions, because you referred to the 'partisan' question. In fact, it was not Mrs Deputies who used this term, that was Mr Luís Montenegro before, but she meant the same thing, just as Mr Luís Montenegro wanted us here to bring a golden possibility that people have to do part-time work earning 60 %. It is nothing new, Mr. Member, it has already existed! By chance, it was a government of the Socialist Party that in 1998 came to offer public servants four days of work. What was the result? Did you do that analysis? Looks like it was zero! No one seems to want it! And why didn't anyone want it? Because the wage level is absolutely low! Even if this measure of part-time work is to prevent the stay on day care centers, it doesn't work either, because there are no half-time fosters! Moreover, indeed, you have ended the day-care centres, have ended the love of social security, have ended the public service of quality social security, and that is why it is a mistake, yes, what you are proposing to us here. Mrs Teresa Caeiro, I would like to tell you about the feasible measures that the Left Block brings here and that are serious amendments to the Labour Code. What we propose in this regard is that employers be penalized with a heavier hand in relation to dismissals of pregnant, puerper or lactating workers and that employers also be penalized with a heavy hand when they stop work contracts, even end employment contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u95	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u96	Finally, Mr President, saying that these are immediate enforceable measures that promote birth. Therefore, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, she wanted a comment on these proposals from the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u97	As Mrs Teresa Caeiro wants to answer together, she also has the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u98	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Caeiro, for whom I do not want to make this debate a partisan guerrilla... I think I will advise the honourable Member to look at the contribution she has made to this!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u100	But your action will remain with the honourable Member, as I have said. Madam Member, I do not know whether by partisan guerrillas you will eventually understand that someone in this debate draws attention to the substantial responsibilities that the Government has on the anti-natal policies that have been developed. Madam Member, will wage cuts have any influence on this matter or not? Does the increase in taxes have any influence on this matter or not? Does high unemployment have any influence on this matter or not? Does precariousness have any influence on this matter or not? Does the increase in working hours, yes or no, have any influence on this matter? I mean, does she not think that these policies implemented by the government have created conditions for families for greater insecurity in the future? Therefore, they have to do directly with their options about birth. Therefore, when we analyze fertility rates, it is normal that under these conditions the desired fertility rate is lower than the actual fertility rates. But it's not this way, Mrs. Member, it's not this way. I would also like you to tell me whether or not you think it is impossible to give up the debate on the birth of the debate on family policies. I think that the honourable Member considers that it is not possible to furnish or separate, because it is not possible. So perhaps it is important in this debate that the honourable Member, who is from the CDS, reminds the whole country of what the family visa is and what impact you have had on your proposal. [[Well remembered!]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u101	It's important that we talk about everything. And so that we do not go into partisan guerrillas here, I will make a very direct appeal to the honourable Member: I would like him to speak on the proposals which the Greens bring here today to this debate and which I have already announced in my speech, to also understand the sensitivity of the majority to them. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u102	In reply, Mrs Teresa Caeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have put to me. Since the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the opposition have spent more time criticizing the government and not announcing their own initiatives, I do not see why it is the CDS or the benches of the majority to decide on the initiatives that you are presenting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u104	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u105	Instead of using your time in the gallery to attack the government and the last four years, you should have defended your initiatives. [[Greens and CFP rice.]] But, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, with all the esteem that you know I am for you, is absolutely right: indeed, my first intervention was much more political-partisan than what I would like, but it was to regret what I — a word of honor! — I would not expect it to take place in a debate of this importance. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, go do her show for the committees of inquiry, where she is very well and where she is very praised. Here, let it go. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] With regard to fertility rates, you think the fertility rate has started to fall over the past four years. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I have a role here, which I like to deliver to you, which shows that the fertility rate in Portugal has been decreasing since 1970! Just after April 25, was there an increase in birth? Oh, my God! For sure, it was because there was a great joy on the part of the PCP. [[Rice from the PCP, BE and the Greens.]] Therefore, you do not say that the breakdown of birth resulted from the policies of this government, which were, as you know, conditioned by an intervention and rescue programme, were not voluntary options. It's just that we've lost our sovereignty and the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that. In reply to your numerous questions, it is impossible to discuss 38 initiatives in an afternoon, but I thought that they were to be discussed in special detail and that they were not weapons of shooting.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u107	I must say, frankly, that there will certainly be initiatives that, contrary to what you do, most will have no problem accepting positive contributions that can come from other banks, provided they are constructive and feasible, which is what you often do not take into account. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u108	This issue is not new, it is already from 1970, but it was already worrying in 2007, when the CDS, not yet in coalition, commissioned a study on birth policies. In 2007 who was in the government? It was the Socialist Party, the baby-checker. Do You Remember? We have already reached four conclusions: that it was necessary to eliminate discrimination affecting the family; that controlled flexibility of working hours was absolutely necessary, in order to adapt them to the reconciliation between family life and professional life; that intergenerational involvement was necessary; and that the promotion of corporate social responsibility was necessary. This is to avoid, of course, talking about the fiscal issue, which is very important, and which has now been achieved, as you know, through the family quotient. But there is one question—and I'm already seeing some smiles—which is very close to the CDS and about which I can only talk, which is, in the area of health, the vaccine known as antipneumococcal, more commercially known as Prevenar, and that all people who have young children know. And they also know, of course, the enormous social injustice that exists with regard to access to this vaccine, which presupposes three doses. Each of these costs about 70 € and therefore the necessary doses for the recommended prevention in children cost more than 200 €. The majority presented an initiative in this debate for this vaccine to be integrated into the National Vaccination Plan. And I'm going to answer the ladies and gentlemen. Members: that is not what we want, that is not what we want, but we are not going to spread reality. This is the first of two steps necessary and beginning by sharing with the most deprived families access to this vaccine is a measure of the most elementary justice and is the measure possible at this time. Like the ladies. Members know that health policy and policy in general is made of options and, in the face of infinite needs, there are finite budgets. But I am saying again that this is a first of two steps and, as it is evident, our goal is to achieve the inclusion of Prevenar in the National Vaccination Plan. And we'll be there, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because it is a matter of public health and, above all, it is a question of social justice among those who can provide this protection to their children and those who do not have the financial means to do so. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u109	You now have the floor, Mr David Costa, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A serious analysis and discussion on low birth rates in our country cannot fail to address, among others, the correlation between the choice and the desire to have children by the workers and the evident degradation of working conditions, the responsibility of successive PS and PSD/CDS governments, which condition the decision of the moment and the number of children intended. The precariousness and instability of work, together with young unemployment in the order of 35 % and also the policy of low wages based on the social and economic model of right-wing policy today are around thousands of workers and, in a particularly serious way, the younger ones, in a web of uncertainty and impossibility as to their future and the possibility of being a family. in a diametrically opposed intervention line, the CFP proposes a national programme to combat job insecurity and illegal recruitment. A programme whose objectives are the implementation of a policy to prevent and combat job insecurity and illegal recruitment, aimed at defending and promoting the exercise of workers' rights. A national programme which has as its priority tasks: first, the fight against non-permanent labour links for the performance of tasks that correspond to permanent needs, promoting stable and lasting contractual links, including combating precarious forms of employment, such as employment-inclusion contracts, employment-inclusion contracts + and professional stages, for the supply of non-transitional needs; second, the fight against undeclared forms of work and illegal recruitment and various forms of labour trafficking; third, the fight against labour rental practices, including temporary work, promoting the absence of intermediation in the labour relationship; fourth, the fight against part-time recruitment; fifth, the promotion of the exercise of individual and collective rights of workers. Mrs. Members, it is not possible to encourage temporary recruitment and the term, thus blocking all objective conditions of stability of employment bond, and at the same time affirm their concern with the low number of children born in Portugal in recent years. How do PSD and CDS intend to encourage birth whilst encouraging precariousness, destroying thousands of jobs and promoting low-wage policies? With regard to these problems, we do not hear a single word from the PSD and CDS to put an end to the social scourge of precariousness and unemployment. How is it possible for government-supported parties to increase their working hours from 35 hours to 40 hours, withdrawing time for family life, withdrawing time for the necessary follow-up of children and, at the same time, expressing concerns about birth? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not exacerbating exploitation of workers and attacking the rights won with 25 April which encourages birth. The CFP, in the affirmation and development of an alternative policy that encourages birth, respecting the articulation of personal and family life with professional life, proposes the replacement of the normal working time for 35 hours per week for workers in public service, the progressive reduction of working time for workers in the private sector to 35 hours per week and the elimination of all mechanisms for the deregulation of working time, such as the so-called 'adjustability' and the bank of hours. It is with a fairer and more respectful labour policy of workers' rights that the conditions of true incentive to birth can be created. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u111	For an intervention, Mrs Helena Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is indeed an important debate, but the debate on birth is, above all, a debate on rights. And the rights of people must be at the heart of this debate — rights at work, in education and in health. The Left Block brings to this debate in the field of health two very concrete proposals that make the difference in people's lives. The first proposal is to respond to people at risk of becoming infertile due to cancer treatments. The collection and preservation of gametes can guarantee these people the possibility of being mothers and parents in the future. There is no universal public policy on this matter in our country and there must be. Everyone should have the right to preserve the gametes, if they understand it that way, and not only those who have money for it. The second proposal is related to another of the fundamental factors in terms of health, in terms of the perspective of birth, which is vaccination, this great advance of science—in fact, as we all know, we are celebrating the 50 years of the National Vaccination Plan. I was a bit confused with Mrs Teresa Caeiro's intervention regarding the recommendation of the majority to include the pneumococcal vaccine, i.e. to prevent, in the National Vaccination Plan, because the majority's proposal does not say that it is for the disabled or not, says only that it is to be included in the National Vaccination Plan. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be absolutely serious in this debate: this decision has already been taken by this House of the Republic. In 2013, this House approved a draft resolution of the Left Block initiative to include Preventing in the National Vaccination Plan. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]] Mr Member, please consult the documents, everyone knows that this is the case. So let's go to work, let's implement it, because it's getting late and because the Assembly of the Republic has already spoken in 2013! But now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and just to complete this reasoning, the Left Block recommends again the inclusion of the vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan against rotavirus which, as we know, is the virus responsible for gastroenteritis, which is extremely common and has a huge impact on the lives of families — I do not have time to be detailing it, but even has an economic impact on the lives of families. Therefore, it is time to also include this vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan. And it's only expected, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a debate which I repeat is about rights and concrete issues, that most of these initiatives are viable in order to solve people's real problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u114	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u115	Mrs Teresa Caeiro asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u116	Mr President, it is to make a request to the Bureau. Mrs. Helena Pinto said a half-truth. He said there had been a Left Block initiative on Preventing in 2013, which is true, but it was by dragging on another initiative. And you know who? the CDS, which has been presenting this initiative since 2007. Thank you very much, Mr President. If the Bureau can do the distribution through the benches...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u117	Mrs. Deputy, it is distributed orally, you've already noticed. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u118	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u119	Mrs Helena Pinto, do you also want the Bureau to distribute a comment on your part?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u120	Mr. President, it's very fast. I asked you to distribute the following comment: of course, I spoke on the initiative of my Parliamentary Group, which refers precisely to the inclusion of the vaccine in the National Vaccination Plan, contrary to the initiative of the CDS, which said that inclusion should be studied. I think it's all said. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u121	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our country, past 41 years of 25 April, employers and heads in the public and private sectors, condition, limit and deny conditions for the exercise of maternity and paternity rights in the workplace. The intimidations, blackmails and direct and indirect pressures of employers to workers in general and, in particular, to women persist and worsen. in our country, pregnant women, puerpera and lactating women are illegally dismissed. Journals of medical recruitment contests for the National Health Service ask candidates about whether they are thinking about having children. in employment interviews, they ask women if they have children and their age. They say that if they want to enjoy breastfeeding and breastfeeding, they will have cut wages, even if there is a patronate who asks for medical statement as such is fundamental to the child. They say that due to the lack of nurses in hospitals, there can be no enjoyment of maternity and paternity rights. They impose illegal conditions so that workers do not enjoy maternity leave in their entirety, especially in the hotel and restaurant sector. Thousands of workers in precarious situations are denied the right to maternity leave. The violation of maternity and paternity rights by employers is certainly a far more serious reality than that which can be identified from formal complaints to the Equal Labour and Employment Commission. The right of women to work with rights and the right to be a mother without penalties is an integral part of the achievements of the April Revolution. Strengthening and fully fulfilling maternity and paternity rights is a democratic requirement. The solutions we bring here today confirm the unwavering commitment of the CFP to defend workers' rights and the social function of maternity, as enshrined in the Constitution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose the extension of the period of compulsory leave of women from six to nine weeks; the extension of the period of paternity leave from 10 to 20 optional days; the guarantee of the free decision of the couple on the period of leave of 150 or 180 days, always ensuring their payment to 100 %; the creation of a specific maternity leave of prematurity paid to 100 %; the guarantee of the possibility of reintegration of pregnant, puerper or lactant workers into another group company in the event of collective dismissal; the increase from 30 to 90 annual days, paid to 100 %, in cases of assistance to children with disabilities or chronic illness; the creation of a national plan to combat discrimination based on maternity and punitive action of the Act (Working Authority) and the effective recruitment of all necessary labour inspectors in order to comply with the ratios defined by the International Labour Organisation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u123	Mr Ivo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this stage of the debate, there are some points that I consider important to highlight. Portugal currently has one of the lowest birth rates in Europe and the proposals put forward by the majority are not central to solving this national problem. On employment and stability, there are no proposals. And we have even heard from Mr Luís Montenegro that, for the PSD, it does not matter even the outcome of the policies. The important thing is to legislate, present initiatives and then, as far as the outcome of them is concerned, you will soon see it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this case of birth, the most recent surveys on fertility of the National Institute of Statistics and others that we could still see in the social communication reveal that the financial costs are the most pointed reason for not having children. And what did this government bring to youth? It brought 35 % unemployment, brought emigration, brought lack of prospects for the future, brought precariousness and brought poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Young people know that with this government they will have many difficulties in realizing their potential, forming families and having children. They predict that they will live worse than their parents and that their children will have even more difficulties than they themselves. So, of course, no more children will be born. in the case of health, this government continued with the priorities exchanged: first, the cuts and then the people. It cut twice as much of what was in the Memorandum of Troika, ceased to guarantee universal access to health care, waiting times increased, the lack of doctors and other health professionals in the SNS was too evident and chaos and uncontrolled in hospitals were installed, leaving the populations on the verge of a nerve attack. Still this week, we all saw another very elucidative report—just didn't see anyone who didn't want—a dantesque scenario, a National Cock Health Service, more like images from the third world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the direct policies to encourage birth, this government also did nothing. Worse, in the public service, doctors are still asked if they want to become pregnant, and the time burden has increased. in family policy, this government strongly aggravated the direct contribution to families, placing Portugal in the group of the four countries of the European Union with greater weight of direct health payments. Equal opportunities in the interior are still to be born. Today, the picture is a young person for every three elderly persons and the constitution of a State Secretary of the elderly is already justified as much or more than a State Secretary of Youth. We have signalled for this debate the emblematic measure of the moderate rates that this government has brutally increased, leading many Portuguese to think twice before resorting to health services and care. With one of the bills that we present, we propose that all the family aggregate count in the rules of capital for the exemption, as mentioned by the Ombudsman. Finally, make it clear: in transversal policies of birth, whether in health, youth or territorial cohesion, we must change our course, it is urgent to change government. And it is not worth being now PSD and CDS « crying over the milk that they poured out ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u125	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They well preach PSD and CDS about birth and the need to protect families. The PSD/CDS government even created the family visa, presented as a guarantee that the measures and options of the government would always be, but always, friends of Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u128	However, the reality has shown that the speech does not correspond to reality, since PSD and CDS spent four years of ungovernment imposing sacrifices on families, raising taxes, cutting wages, attacking social benefits and attacking acquired rights. PSD and CDS have thus spent the last four years implementing anti-family and anti-natality policies, so today's crocodile tears poured out by the PSD and CDS-PP as regards birth do not fool anyone at all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the most important aspects, alongside wages and employment stability, to promote the conditions necessary for Portuguese to have children who want and not those who may have to guarantee a network of public day care and affordable prices and to eliminate cuts and strengthen family allowance. The CFP is again presenting solutions to these two problems in this debate. The CFP understands that the current network of family support equipment clearly reveals the deresponsibility of the State in the social area, which is evidenced by the worsening of inequalities in access to equipment depending on the level of income of the families and the region where they live. In fact, these factors lead to the fact that the values paid by families to have access to day care are truly unbearable. A family with average/low income can easily get to pay 200 € or 300 € per month. The CFP therefore advocates the creation of a public network of daycare and pre-school education, educational quality and affordable prices for workers and their families. On the other hand, the PCP presents a bill that extends the conditions of access and allocation of prenatal and family allowance, ensuring the universality of this social benefit. PS, PSD and CDS, with given hands, cut the family allowance to 650 000 children and young people in our country. The CFP, in addition to restoring the subsidy to which it has been unlawfully cut, proposes to improve the conditions of allocation and the amounts paid. Family allowance is a right of children and young people and it is a fundamental aid to families who see the financial burdens increased. The solutions presented by the CFP here are a significant contribution to improving the living conditions of families and are designed to create the necessary conditions for promoting birth. There are solutions to the problems of birth that the country faces, but they do not pass by right-wing parties or right-wing politics that have ruled our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate it was fundamental, in my view, that it did not fall into a fall and fall easily, that it is to consider the crisis of birth as a conjuncural problem, i.e. that the reduced birth rate is due solely to the economic crisis that this government has inherited, to the intervention of the troika that this government has received and to the policies of financial and economic restructuring that this government has had to implement.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u132	This should be the starting point for this discussion and also, in some way, the discussion of concrete proposals, especially those of the Socialist Party, which were not discussed, because they were not even presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u134	But, as I said, the starting point for this debate is that the problem of birth is not conjunctural. And, if it were a conjuncural one, this debate would not be necessary either because it was enough for economic growth to begin — and it is already noted — for birth to grow again. And we know from history that this is not the reality. Therefore, the discussion has to be structural, we have to talk about structural measures. That is what should have been discussed here, and it was not discussed. The decline in births did not start yesterday and has its origin various causes, which are social, economic and cultural. It is obvious that the economic crisis has aggravated the negative trend and that financial constraints and unemployment have contributed to this worsening. But it is also obvious that this is not a problem that resolves with punctual, conjunctural measures or by throwing money at him. The crisis of birth is structural, transversal to all families and has lasted too long. Therefore, to solve it, structural responses are needed, which truly meet needs, which have a practical effect and a real impact on the lives of all Portuguese people. All the hearings we have made and all the reports we have already produced — including the 2007 Assumption Cristals — point out that one of the fundamental measures to solve the birth problem is to look at policies to support early childhood. The reconciliation between professional, family life and early childhood equipment or school are key points. The strengthening of this support is therefore essential. That is why — and I am going to talk about concrete proposals and select them in this area — we are presenting some proposals in this direction today, of which I will highlight four. The first, which has been mentioned here, is the universality of pre-school education from the age of four. That is, the State's obligation to provide this educational offer free of charge to all families who, by exercising their freedom of choice, opt for it. It is a fact that the installed capacity of both the private and the social network and the public school already covers a large proportion, almost 100 %, of the population concerned. But it is necessary that this articulation be done in order to correct the differences that still exist between the urban centers of great population density and other places where the supply becomes essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u136	Taking a step in this direction, allowing everyone, from the age of four, to have access to free pre-school education and that the network is organized in order to respond to all families, is to remove an important obstacle to the life of these families. The second proposal I want to highlight is the same. We are aware of the importance of adapting professional schedules to the times of the various types of responses of both education and pre-school or infantry. It is a fact that the system has not evolved in order to adapt to new labour realities. The hermetic time of these answers makes it difficult to reconcile professional life with family life, making this flexibility imperative. from there we recommend to the Government that this same flexibility throughout the network of love, daycare and social equipment, so that they become favourable to differentiated working hours, practiced both by companies and even by public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u138	Still in this line of flexibility, we propose that there be a sensitization of IPSS to follow this same path, and we cannot impose it, as is obvious. [[Protests by PCP MP Diana Ferreira.]] The third proposal concerns schools directly. In view of the fact that school holidays—and we are talking about the practical and daily life of Portuguese families—are critical periods for so many families, which are difficult to follow or find answers to their children, it is imperative that mechanisms of partnership be found between the educational, social, autarch and even private community to provide the occupation of free time. It is true that in many communities this is already a reality. however, there are still exceptions and often involve a high financial effort on the part of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u139	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u140	Finally, the last set of proposals concerns tax policies. The importance of fiscal policy in removing barriers to birth was one of the main conclusions reached in the hearings and also in the reports on this subject. Thus, it is not too much to remember the reform of the IRS, which for the first time places families with children first in the IRS, without damaging families without children, with the creation of the family quotient. The impact of this measure is great. Already this year has truly significant impacts on the lives of families with children. for the first time, the children count on the IRS, and this is fundamental. In addition, tax deductions are strengthened with health and education and social valleys are created to support families in the education and training costs of their children up to 25 years old. In tax terms, however, it was not only in the IRS that measures were taken to prevent non-discrimination of families with children. Also at IMI headquarters, the family IMI was introduced which allows municipalities to reduce the tax according to the number of children. And it is within this same fiscal policy logic that we now propose the exemption of 50% tax on the purchase of vehicles with more than five seats for parents with more than three children. These four measures that we have presented and which I have now highlighted are in response to the priority of support for early childhood and complement much of what this government has already done in this area, despite all the constraints we have experienced over the past four years. however, the most important thing to point out is that all proposals show that we are aware of the importance of the cross-cutting of any family policy and that all these measures must be structural and long-term. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP also presents proposals today in the field of education and health. We propose the creation of the school pass, because the guarantee of the right to education also goes through the right to mobility. We propose that students with school social activity have free access to the school pass and that everyone else benefit from a 50% reduction, a measure covering all levels of education. We propose the freeness of school textbooks for all students who attend compulsory education in public schools. The cost with school textbooks is uncomportable for many families, and that is also why many are students who finish the school year without school textbooks. It should be noted that it is also because of the responsibility of PS, PSD and CDS that today this support is barred to thousands of students. We demand the material and human conditions for compliance with the law of sexual education in all primary and secondary schools. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to ensure health care for all children and young people. It is essential to ensure compliance with sexual and reproductive rights and support in situations of infertility. in the area of health, we require the allocation of the doctor and family nurse to all users, especially pregnant women, children and young people. We defend the guarantee of family planning consultations, covering issues of reproduction, preparation for childbirth, maternity and paternity and follow-up infertility. A follow-up through the strengthening of public response capacity in the area of WFP (assisted drug reproduction), strengthening public centres throughout the national territory and thus eliminating waiting lists. We also propose 100 % participation in infertility treatments. We propose the integration of a set of vaccines into the National Vaccination Plan, as well as the dynamization of regular programs for health promotion and follow-up in the area of mental health. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whoever is concerned about birth does not close schools, does not fire teachers, nor does it encourage recruitment of employment-inclusion contracts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u143	Those who are concerned about birth do not close public health services, do not create moderate rates, do not disappear valences and hospital services, pushing families and children to more remote places, nor do they reduce the number of health professionals. It is the right-wing policy, which comes from where it comes from, from the PS, PSD or CDS, which is responsible for reducing birth rates, because it is its effect that prevents families from having the children they wish and that only those who have their economic and social conditions allow. More than intentions or many concerns are required, yes, concrete measures to defend public services that respond to the needs of families, and that is what the CFP here proposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u144	Mrs Elza Pais has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was supposed to be serious, not to separate births from economic development, not to separate births from decent and dignified employment. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, in fact, the problem is not only conjuncural, it is also structural. But by focusing on the conjuncural problem, in the last three years the number of births fell more than in the previous 20 years. It's all said! This government has aggravated the problem of birth in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This debate has not been serious, nor has it been consistent. The majority of them spent three years in shambling proposals for support for families. Most spent three years destroying the fabric and social cohesion, introducing instability in families, destroying the public school. The full-time school ended, which would have extraordinary impact on the level of conciliation.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u146	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u147	They ended the discounts on school passes, which would have an impact on the family level. Thousands of young scientists have been forced into emigration, so there has also been a brutal impact on birth. The rate of young unemployment has increased at a hallucinating rate. The rate of young people and discouraged women is at an unparalleled level. Therefore, decent and decent employment is lacking so that people can have the children they want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was three years of destruction of the social tissue. It was three years of family attack. Now comes the mal-managed act of contrition and most of them are very concerned about families.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u148	It's embarrassing this intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u149	It is, in fact, Mrs Teresa Anjinho, a false concern. People need much more than worry.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u150	Well, they need it!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u151	They need investment in education, they need investment in health to reduce educational inequalities, social inequalities and gender inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They need employment stability for both parents—it is not just for parents, it is also for mothers—and they have zero. They need decent and decent wages and they have zero. [[PSD & CDS-PP Protests]] They need strong support for the first child — the next government to deal with this. That is, they give with one hand, in loss, what they took with the other. This is called a heavy conscience because of the way families and people have been treated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u152	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u153	Mrs Cecilia Honorio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of the debate, which we welcome, we can recognize that for those who have called so much for the absence of « partisan », the majority have not forgotten « bad » in some PS initiatives, but nothing has been said about the other initiatives, not even when asked about the concrete content of some of the Left Block proposals. But we are very serious about this debate. We recognize that the problem of birth is a very serious problem that compromises the future of our country. We know that we need to respect our mothers and our parents, but above all respect and protect our children. We are sure, and in that we disagree, that it is necessary to return what they have taken away from the Portuguese and Portuguese so they can believe again in this country, so they can have the hope that they lack. That is why, from our point of view, we need to look forward, we need to think about the future and not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, look back and see. I would like to comment on the so-called 'half-day' of work for public servants or, better, for public officials. I would like to ask you whether this is a kind of creative review of the CDS family visa, because this measure actually introduces double discrimination that is unacceptable. First, it discriminates between men and women, because it is a measure for them—and you well know what it is! — and discrimination between those who have higher income and wages and those who have lower salaries in public service. This is absolutely unacceptable, it's a retreat. I want to ask: What exactly is this for? VV. Ex.s have indebted families to the limit of limits, the children are unemployed and in the home of their parents. I don't know if this is so that grandparents, when they are public officials and have to pay the bills of their unemployed children and their children and if they may have grandchildren, can use this half-day that VV. Ex.as assume and, from our point of view, it is an absolutely unacceptable retreat!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u155	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u156	They have forgotten what is in the studies, including the latest report by the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment), i.e. that the countries with the highest fertility rates are also those with the highest female employment rates. Portugal is an exception, of course, but if we ask whether there is any connection between the existence of part-time, half-term or half-day work and the increase in birth, the answer is no. There is no evidence, there is no study that proves it, unless you want to put women to work in the middle of time and to take care of children at home, to put public officials at home. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u157	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u158	We also talk about much more serious things, such as, for example, when you pay fortunes for a day's work—and this brings to an end any family budget—or when women who are breast-feeding are pressured to concentrate the hours of breastfeeding on Friday, because that is what makes it work. And I could give you many examples: of nurses in public hospitals who have to prove that they are breast-feeding under the penalty of being without the hours for breastfeeding to which they are entitled or of women who are dismissed for being pregnant or on a maternity leave. It is understood that having children in this country is a true heroic act, because it is necessary to fight against everything and against all. We have put forward our proposals, and they are serious. We protect pregnant, puerperous and lactating workers; we provide periods for the prevention of dismissal or termination of contract, for the absolute prohibition of discrimination on the basis of these realities, at the same time as we provide for as a very serious counter-ordination the non-conciliation between family life and professional life—and on this minimum measure of good sense they have not told us anything at all—...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u159	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u160	... we extend the exclusive and compulsory parental leave of the father from 10 to 20 days and the mother for 45 days; we increase the days for failure to care for children; we increase the parental allowance; and we make the replacement—it is a minimum claim, it is not itself revolutionary — of the family allowance, that VV. Ex.as are delaying for the future government.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u161	We propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u162	Let us reintroduce social benefits, particularly family allowances, and create the conditions for an extended network of daycare, public daycare and daycare, whose VV status. Ex. They're destroying. Is that all it takes to get past this birth block? It's not! But they are serious, profound measures. We know that they are essential, because talking about people's rights is to put the question in the seriousness that it requires and that deserves us in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u163	I now give the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira...
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u165	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u166	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u167	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u168	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u169	Mr President, so that we do not get involved in any mistake in the judgment we are making, he asked the Bureau to make the distribution of our bill that amends the General Law on Public Works, establishing a new mode of half-day hours. That's so there's no doubt in the Left Block that we're talking about men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u170	That's not what matters!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u171	The question is the consequences!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u172	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as we are able, I will once again give the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u173	Mr President, taking up what you have already started, Mrs Inês Teotónio Pereira, on the issues you have referred to, we know that the crisis of birth is not due alone and exclusively to recent years, but, Mrs Deputies, we must be serious and realize that, having been stabilisation by the beginning of this century, the fact is that in recent years the problem has been accentuated. Now, says the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) that since 2011 has witnessed a sharp decline in the number of births in our country: in round numbers, from 101 300 in 2010, it has increased to 96 800 in 2011, 89 800 in 2012 and 83 500 in 2013. It adds that maintaining this trend — it estimates the INE — is that a little more than the 21st century ( around 2060 ), the Portuguese population is approximately 6 million inhabitants, and a ratio of 464 elderly people per 100 young people can be reached. There's an absolute problem here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u174	But in 2014 it stabilized!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u175	What I think is serious is that the policies that the Government has been implementing throughout this mandate have made the problem more acute.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u176	But in 2014 it stabilized!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u177	Madam Member, there are certainly structural problems and we cannot close our eyes to what is reality. Mrs Deputies, a problem that is becoming absolutely structural, has been reported to us today or yesterday, if I am not mistaken, by a couple of teachers, with children. Apparently, it's a headache. Why? Because one of the parents has not known how many years they've put more than 100 km away. Therefore, family separation in this case is inevitable, monitoring of children is impossible. These are structural problems for families who have been living for years with this problem and who, of course, do not make any other choice to have more children because, in fact, it does not happen, Mrs. Then we came here to complain about the birth problem. We must complain, but at the same time we must look at other policies... It is not because we are talking about the CDS-PP, but perhaps create a "birth visa" measure — see if they would be right there! Is that what you're talking about? -,... [[PCP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u178	It's funny at this time!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u179	...to understand how sectoral policies can have an impact on what all of us here are saying that it must be the national design.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u180	To meet and not to put in the drawer!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u181	As Mr. Jorge Machado said it was not to be a "family visa" measure, it was even to comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u182	It's a serious thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u183	Maybe in the specialty we can talk about this. I would also like to make a comment to the PSD on the question of part-time work or part-time work—we can give you all the names to pretend that it is a new idea—with the parallelism of reduced wages. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a minor thing to work half-time with reduced wages. The question is that, in part-time work, the situation of children needs to be resolved during the time they are working. What's the solution? Creache! I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the majority will also impose on daycare workers who accept medium-time payments! It's because we have to look at situations depending on reality. In other words, you propose lower wages for equal needs. There is one element here that must definitely enter the debate and that are the economic conditions of families. We can't run away from that.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u184	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u185	The truth is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we realize that throughout the debate, the PSD has fled from the discussion of the livelihoods of families, the economic conditions of families, and the CDS, of course, « fled at seven feet» of the « family visa». at the end of this debate and after what I have heard, it gives me the feeling that there is a strong discursive component of concern about the matter of birth, but by the majority, there is no concern that leads to effective measures and leads to an inversion of the tendency to solve the serious problem that constitutes the low birth rate in the country. I got this sharp feeling. It is not only the reference to the next legislature; it is indeed a lack of willingness to take the heart of the matter and act on it. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I must only regret this. But, of course, the Greens will be here to promote the debate in the specialty with the expectation that the majority will also approve the Greens' proposals so that they can move on to this debate in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2015-04-15.u186	Madam Member, we will know that when these 38 initiatives are voted on, what will happen next Friday, as you will know. at the plenary session tomorrow, beginning at 3 p.m., the agenda is as follows: Point 1 — Urgent debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group on the situation of child and youth protection committees; Point 2 — Joint appreciation, in general, of the proposals for lein. 294 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of the Economists, approved by Decree-Law No 174 / 98 of 27 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, 301 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 119 / 92 of 30 June in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations, and 302 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Alter the Statute of the Order of Technical Engineers, approved by Decree-Law No 349 / 99 of 2 September in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; Point 3 — Overall appreciation of Bill No 295 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Architects, in accordance with Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; Point 4 — General discussion of Bill No 296 / XII ( 4 ) ( a ) — Approves the new Statute of the Order of Biologists, conforming it to Law No 2 / 2013 of 10 January 2013 establishing the legal regime for the creation, organization and operation of professional public associations; Point 5 — Joint appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 1245 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the maximum permitted power in the engines of local fishing vessels and strengthen the monitoring to them ( CDS-PP ), 1409 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote legislative amendment allowing for increased power of engines installed in local fishing vessels ( PS ), 1411 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to strengthen the safety of local fishing vessels ( CFP ) and 1413 / XII ( 4. ( a ) — Recommends increased power of local fishing vessels' engines for greater safety of fishermen ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for today our work is completed, and I therefore declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 44 minutes.]]
