ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11552	Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, I am opening the 11th session of the House of Representatives. So, I say hello again. [[/Intonation of the hymn.]] Please insert the cards so that I can determine the presence at today's session. So until you do, I will brief you as soon as possible with the circumstances that I consider important, about calling today's session. Here, the monitor shows me that we currently have 30 MPs present. I was announced by Mr. Salko Sokolović, Selim Bešlagić, Sefer Halilović, Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, Prodanović Snježana Rajilić. Most of them are for legitimate reasons, on official routes, etc. Mr. Zorić also announced his absence and Mr. Martin Raguž announced a delay. So 30, 21 from the Federation, 9 from RS. I'm realizing we have a quorum to work on today's session. So I called today's session according to my own decision, and in accordance with Article 62, Section 3, just as the call indicated. At an emergency, or when calling this session, I have held consultations or conversations with my deputies on several occasions, and I must tell you that we did not have the same opinion when it came to calling this session. Mr. Lozančić also requested and supported the holding of this session, Mr. Živković felt that the matter was not so urgent that we should specifically convene a session. He thought we could discuss it at the session, the next session scheduled for July 4th. To the urgent calling of this session today, I have decided for the following reasons; I thought that the public of BiH, at least one significant part of its part, is upset by this event and that it rightly expects the state authorities' reactions and answers to a number of questions produced by this event. I thought it was a phenomenon, i.e. an event, which has characteristics of general importance, so of general interest and that it overcomes a particular situation, that it concerns the interests of all citizens from the point of view of the right to fair, fair, correct procedure, transparent procedure in any similar situation or specific, in which Mr. Selim Bešlagić was. As a previous question, therefore, the circumstances under which this session was called, we discussed on the College the issue of the application of the Rules of Procedure. So we tried to answer the question whether this session was called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We did not reach 2 consensus when it came to this matter, so two members of the College felt that the session was called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, one member felt that the session was not called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What I have left, because I'm not simple, I'm obliged to do it according to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm not a man who works on principle: it doesn't matter, either way, let me, Mr. Kalabić, uh, a little patience, you'll all have a chance, of course. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, today, as a House of Representatives, we need to give final arbitration, or final word on whether this session is today, whether the Rules of Procedure of the BiH House of Representatives has been violated during the call for this session today. I believe that, if you have an invitation ahead of you, and the members to whom I have called during this session, and also the Rules of Procedure which I believe you know, that you are prepared to make a statement as to whether this Rules of Procedure has been violated when calling on this session today's deadlines, otherwise, set by the Rules of Procedure. So, before we continue to work, we would have to resolve this previous issue. Are you insisting, Mr. Kalabić? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11553	The chairman, fellow MPs, I am, frankly, disappointed with the situation we have been brought into and the SNSD MPs have come today to say this here in Parliament, that this is an inappropriate and completely unnecessary situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think, Mr. Chairman, that even such a complicated situation, you have, in your personal act these days and today, put extra burden on me, honestly, by breaking the Rules of Procedure because this is the first time you've ever done this, and I'm asking the question and the meaning of the need of the College, which is narrow, which in the extended composition and for the first time, is that you haven't called, as far as I've been, until a moment before, or consulted anyone from the College, which you've done regularly, I won't say and irrelevant, all the issues are important, but more important and less important, especially when in a situation where we think this really isn't, the conduct of a prominent international organisation such as Interpol, its conduct, its work in places around the world, that we, in this way and declaring it an urgency for this Parliament, we are in a situation that we are in which we are at each other to discuss ourselves, whether we have a session at all. I believe that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, quite clearly, where it says, Article 92 in paragraph 1 that, acting in agreement with the vice-presidents, calls on the House's session and proposes the agenda to the MPs, in particular that so far it has been a regular practice, that we have done so all along and I do not see how Parliament will function if you misread one other position, that means that you would schedule a new session at 4 today and that it would be urgent if the temperature went beyond 42 degrees, that tonight at 11 you would schedule a third session of Parliament. In your personal opinion of urgency, you should at least get anyone else's opinion from this House to, or from the College, confirm that it is working, and I think whoever wrote the Rules of Procedure has just thought of something else when it is urgent, so that we do not list which situations could be urgent for this country and that Parliament is being convened. Far from being an emergency. I believe that we can only declare whether the conditions for the session's work have been obtained in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and you are already in advance in your question doubting yourself and 3 are saying that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. You don't need that. If you doubt it, you might have doubted the days before and given it up. And the question can only be for Parliament, is the session called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? It's a normal question, and every other twisting of any situation, then we're already admitting that we're in an uncomfortable situation. So, here we are, we can only accept to say in this way whether this session is called by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11554	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. I will refrain from commenting, I just want to underline doing my job and perform the duties that the Rules of Procedure gives me. I wouldn't comment on the word twisting, etc. Come on, is there a debate? I want us to set ourselves up by the Rules of Procedure, as the Rules of Procedure say. How is anyone going to do, how does he feel about this session, I'm not getting into it. Can I help you? Is there any further? But let us refrain and go to work and do business in the Rules of Procedure, as the Rules of Procedure says, in interpretation. We have three reports. Mr. Bahtić, Mr. Dokić and Mr. Džaferović. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11555	Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that today there is an excuse for this extraordinary session because it is a very serious situation where legal uncertainty has been created for all BiH citizens. Especially when it's tanging me is leaking information from the CIPs to another state. That's very important.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11556	Mr. Bahtić, today, now, I'm sorry, we're discussing the Rules of Procedure to see if the Rules of Procedure has been broken in calling this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11557	In my opinion, when emergency cases are that it's quite justified to hold this session today. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11558	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11559	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the matter of the Rules of Procedure, his respect and his injury may be essential and may be, as I say, a formal question. I would, however, point to one fundamental question. I came to this session just to say that this topic you suggested for a special, special, extraordinary session is not an emergency session. We had a theme today for an extraordinary session. Namely,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11560	I'd ask one more time, then we're working, practically, we're working, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11561	Wait a minute, let me just say two sentences. Some day at the meeting, a two-day meeting of the PIC, among other things, the High Representative said, I quote -- there was a serious deterioration of the political atmosphere as well as threats from some non-institutional actors that resolving the security issue would take place. I don't want to remind you of the many large findings and statements the High Representative told us here last session, but isn't this the highlight? Wasn't this supposed to be a occasion for an extraordinary session, that, I quote other statements that the media made about it -- that there was a total blockade of the implementation of the peace process?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11562	Please, let's get to a specific point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11563	Here's my suggestion. This question is worth getting information and discussing it, but at a completely regular session. And on these issues, if I don't have the right to request an emergency session today, I'll be looking for a regular.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11564	As an MP, of course, you have the right to launch a series of initiatives and they are welcome. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11565	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, firstly I will say that you, the chairman, do not need to ask this House whether the session has been called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11566	I'm talking about interpreting the Rules of Procedure, people are looking for 5.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11567	You are therefore the chairman of the House and in the description of your affairs it is that you respect what is called the Rules of Procedure and what is called Parliament's initiatives and you have respected it and called this session. I think we should get going. So, I, if you ask me, is it, can I say my opinion that I believe the Rules of Procedure have not been broken? I think this is a very important topic for BiH. It is much wider than the Selim Bešlagić case and we in this case need to send a clear message from BiH today, from its directly elected House, so Parliament, and to all those concerned. I agree with my colleagues that there are also a number of other urgent topics to be discussed by the BiH Parliament, if it should be at extraordinary sessions and I do not object, but, believe me, when this is translated into the everyday life of Mr. Selim Bešlagić, then you will see that this can concern all BiH citizens and this is one, and the functioning of BiH institutions especially in the area of justice, this is a very serious situation and it requires our emergency session. When it comes to, therefore, the Rules of Procedure, I ask you only to distinguish the role of the College which makes decisions by consensus, the role of the Exterior College which makes decisions by consensus and the role of the chairman and vice-president in their functions in calling and managing the session. I'll read it to you now if I have to, I won't, if I have to later and I'll do it, the provisions of Articles 21, 22, 27, 62 and 63. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. However you interpret, therefore, these provisions, then you will come to the conclusion that it is the chairman's responsibility to schedule a session in certain situations and at the request of a particular club at his own decision. This is, therefore, by his own decision and if he had done otherwise, then he would have hurt the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you not to cause any trouble about this, so these are, therefore, completely clear situations. I know what I'm saying because I have a four-year practice behind me in the application of both the former Rules of Procedure and this Rules of Procedure, which are practically, when it comes to these provisions, remain the same. Let's deal with the essence. Believe me, this concerns all of BiH, every citizen of both entities and cantons and every municipality and all of us who live here, and this can be a very useful session today, to launch some initiatives. I suggest that you go, the chairman, with the very essence, and I ask my colleagues that we have a constructive relationship with this subject and that today, I say, send a clear message when this problem is all domestic and global. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11568	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Here comes Mr. Križanović. Mr. Hadži Mitrović, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should almost give up the discussion after this presentation by my colleague Džaferović. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11570	A little louder, Jozo, please, a little louder.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11571	I would like to say briefly and clearly that the Club of Representatives of the SDP has been properly called upon by the Rules of Procedure which enables the urgent call of the meeting. We have addressed the chairman to use the right to call himself in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and now, in my opinion, it is no longer a question of whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been violated, it is clear to me. There can be problems here whether the situation and the cause of the call to this session, whether it has the character of an emergency. I assure you there is. We have come to a state of legal uncertainty and the failure to function of the relevant state institutions where we believe that this Parliament must react urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11572	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Is it a replica, Mr. Kalabić? Is it a replica? Here you go. The replica of Mr. Hadži Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11573	I could accept the last part of Mr. Križanović's sentence, if we hadn't mentioned the case and say this, and that's what fellow Dokić said. We can talk about these things. About one general and difficult situation. But what Mr. Džaferović said, I wish he had said that during the four-year presidency he had applied one Rules of Procedure in this way when members of the presidency, entity presidents, ministers, various high-ranking state officials of Canton, I don't know either, canton Prime Ministers. If a session was called once for that reason when the state authorities reportedly did their job according to the story of all these people, and when there was an objection, we were all, I won't say silenced, but it was said that the reform of the judiciary was carried out here, that the judiciary in this country was independent, the institutions that work, the prosecutions and I don't know what else is and that if we want to introduce practice when such measures are applied to the members of one people, that it is necessary to respond and to call the state parliament, and that half of the other people can be arrested, that this is the independent work of the judiciary, then I think it's wrong. I don't think it's, this, I agree with someone, this isn't anymore, it's coming from a business interpretation... of things about the Rules of Procedure. I therefore ask you, are we today trying to take over from some of the old days of jurisdiction over the judiciary and to make decisions in this House, and this building has been known for tens of years for making decisions in some of these rooms when and when and who will be arrested and who will be released, in this building of some time. Whether by calling this session we're looking again, but on some other basis, it used to be on an ideological basis, right in this building, and in this way we're trying to put it there today, probably to line up people from the judiciary and the D.A.'s office, and to tell them who gave it to you, or, I'm not going to put myself in this situation. I have observations, I spoke at Parliament's regular session on these matters, I spoke at the Commission's session about what, within the limits where it is interpreted, that it is not a pressure on the judiciary and I don't think it should be, but one, all that we have found here, a well-intentioned suggestion or the position of MPs in the state Parliament, that we have the right to do so. To this all else, or to know that we're introducing some new practice. We're against it. And we came here to say that, in this way, we are not prepared to discuss these problems that are problems, which burden us, we are not prepared to discuss them in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11574	I have a replica, Mr. Kalabić. I really don't like to do this. I'm trying to concentrate on the work I'm doing, to run a session. So, I repeat, if you have followed me well, my decision calls for this session. It's my decision. One. Secondly, how much, if Zlatko want that kind of conversation, I've called Mr. Križanović and discussed this topic, etc., but on that point. Of course, all at SDP's request, of course, all on the SDP's initiative and let me talk about the procedural things. So, Mr. Kalabić, I've decided, at the request of the club, to call this session. I repeat, I have consulted several times with colleagues from the College. And I didn't achieve consent. One of the deputies, Mr. Lozančić, was invited and insisted that they be called, the other was not for it, but considered it necessary in the ordinary procedure to discuss it. I cited the circumstances of an emergency nature that led me to call this session. I don't introduce any practice against anyone, nor do I approach this selectively. I said it was an MP, which I would have done if any MP here had been or possibly some citizen, possibly some public figure, etc. which has addressed this Parliament and has sought adequate protection, etc. So, I'm asking you not to come out of that box or anyone here to protect or teach me, I respected the procedure, and we discussed the application of the Rules of Procedure this morning, and I've briefed you on what the result is. And, too, I've told you that as a previous question, it's Dom who should say that I'm not manipulating anything. Did I violate the poslavnik in calling this session? Because people are through the media, nobody's officially to me until this morning, Mr. Živković objected that I broke the Rules of Procedure. That's it. So, this is Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović. I apologize, I speak, replica, of course. Mr. Lagumdžija, just a little while ago, Mr. Drago, the Lagumdžija. Mr. Mitrović, be patient. Replica, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11575	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't really mean to answer, even if you weren't so experienced, I'd think you were wrong about how you started running the session. Then I realized you weren't. You don't need to be here, Mr. Belkić, to be the man who defends the right of an MP. Everyone here wants to defend the right of every citizen of this country not to have 8 coming into a state of legal uncertainty. I really think that for me it's encouraging anything we have here, what the situation is, the possibility of opening up the debate and doing it. I hope so. It is that this is the first time, several false allegations, for the first time, that a man who is a member of parliament has been arrested, under immunity or a member of the presidency or a state minister. They were arrested earlier, moment, moment, slow, I'm talking about state, slowly, we'll come, Mr. Dolić. In his time, when your party colleague was arrested, he was a federal envoy. I said, therefore, therefore, please, a state of fact. People acting as members of the presidency or the president of the state, MPs of this parliament or the minister were arrested for various reasons. But not at the moment when they were, it's a fact, please, and the difference is from the fact that it's about the man who's sitting here right now, just doesn't sit, you know why he didn't even come. He didn't want to come into this because he wanted to give his colleagues and colleagues the right and the ability to talk about him without burdening them with his presence. But this wasn't called for because of selo Bešlagić, this was used as a cause, because it is about every citizen of this country. Because this country becomes a territory, not a state, becomes a hunting ground, not a state, becomes a reservation, not a state. And why did I answer, Mr. Kalabić, to replicate. It's not about arresting members of a nation, we thought, I've seen and experienced this gesture that people have practically come all the political options and all the peoples. Because it is an illegal procedure or an inappropriate procedure, I will not now establish illegality, but an inappropriate procedure. In which of the 4 people who are or should be honest 5, the fifth died, of 4 men their common denominator that they are all from one city, that they are all from one political party, but that is not important, their common denominator that they were among those four people and were 2 Bošnjak, 1 Srbin and 1 Hrvat. It's about all three peoples. The fact that they may not be in the mood for a political option is not something in every country. But it's about the members, and that's why we thought this was a good reason to talk about it in a different way. We have and I thank you, we have here a presence and materials that for the first time in such an efficient way that we get, what is their quality of it by that, when the debate comes up we'll see. But here I also thank the Ministry of Justice and the D.A. and Interpol who gave us the material for today, which is not very common to get right away. There's their presence here and the President of the Court. So it's about when there's a debate, the fact that the event that brought all this up is one crime, a murder, people missing, people were killed in May of '92. And there are two truths about that event. And those two truths will be found in court. And then you'll determine which one is the right one. But it's not the subject of this debate. The subject of our debate and was an initiative to try to see today in Parliament, not close anything but to open and try to systematise and that institutions are doing their job and this Parliament is actively involved. Let's see what are the system failures that exist here. Systemically, because they seem to exist. What are the institutional gaps that have occurred and possibly the individual things that have led us to an unwanted situation. 9 So I would ask my colleagues who have come here to accept this agenda. To discuss and try to initiate a process that is in the interest of every citizen of this country, every nation and everyone who is the victim in one way or another. This is primarily in the interest of people like, you can see, a man's name is wrong. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11576	Please, Lagumdžija. Please, a little patience, a little patience. Mr. Lagumdžija, you're bringing the end, it's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11577	And in the end, there's been a lot going on in this building, in this building, and we don't have to call on it. It's in this building in '84. A gala dinner made for the success of the Olympics, in this building in '92. Said that one nation would disappear, and he didn't disappear, and all that was here was. Let's turn to the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11578	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Hadži Jovan. Is it a replica? Here you go, Mr. Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11579	Please, very briefly since we haven't come and we don't want to still open the debate essentially on this issue, and we just want to explain why our position is the way it is. Mr. Đedović was arrested as an MP. As far as I know, no initiatives, no demands, no even statements. I wasn't in that assembly of parliament then, and I don't know all the details, the MP was arrested. And somewhere around here, I think it's somewhere around this Parliament. But about that, then, it's not true that this wasn't happening in some congregation, and at some point, we weren't responding. I talk all the time about the principle, if it was the principle that the judiciary was doing its job then, we're asking the question -- are we breaking that principle today? And we say, "Now we'll see what you do in individual cases." We absolutely didn't take Mr. Bešlagić's story, and by respecting everything that happened to him, we didn't get to it. I want to clarify that, and these things, we are not principled, here it is clearly said that this question should be opened to the story of what happened to Mr. Selim Bešlagić and everything else. And we think it should open up to what Mr Dokić said, and we're pulling different messages out of this. We have had the opportunity, we have, and our proposal to revise this, to give up this, and in the second general debate, everyone has the opportunity to have everything they think about this and the proposal for measures and everything related to Mr Bešlagić and hundreds, not to abuse the man Bešlagić, who is arrested daily in all the countries of the region, 10 related to BiH on the grounds of Interpol. What it means is that ten ordinary people who don't have a chance to complain to anyone are not MPs. They're arrested on Interpol warrants, held for a few days until it's clear, people are going home. But, please, he can't, he can't arrest Selim Bešlagić. That's why I said, we're not principled and that's why it's the responsibility of the chairman and everyone else,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11580	A little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11581	Please understand us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11582	Here we have 6, 7 people already for replicas, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11583	We want this problem to be
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11584	This doesn't lead to anything, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11585	Were we waiting for Mr. Bešlagić to reach out and let's open her up? With full respect for the requirement to discuss this and what a man, with full respect, we are against having the chairman set up the session in this way, that he kolegij not prepare what Mr. Križanović and Mr. Dokić had said with his colleagues, and that he did not conclude and formulate otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11586	I think, Mr. Kalabić, if I had just prepared it, look at my letter to the D.A., the Ministry of Justice and all the others where I was talking about the appearance and legal security, or the uncertainty of the citizens, etc., so,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11587	Mr. Chairman, last sentence, (speak briefly together in the voice of Belkić, Kalabić) Last sentence, Mr. Chairman, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11589	All right, all right. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11590	There's no need for us to compromise. Does that mean that the case didn't happen with Mr. Bešlagić so that no one in this country would report for this problem and arrest some others, hundreds, and it wouldn't come to this. That's what I'm talking
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11591	I wouldn't argue.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11592	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11593	So let's respect this consummation, this consummation has done it, here, please, just. Just a little patience, please, we have, please, we have a turn, Bakir Izetbegović, you've already had your chance, sir. Mr. Izetbegović, wait a minute. Mr. Lagumdžija has the wrong quote, he has priority, a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11594	It's no problem that this time Bešlagić, the problem is
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11595	Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Lagumdžija insists that I respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, but stick to the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11596	I'm, therefore, guilty of allegation,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11597	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11598	I know what's wrong, I'm so smart I know what's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11599	You're already wasting your time, you're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11600	Well, I'm not losing with the wrong quote. Mr. Đedović, when he was arrested, was not an MP under oath in this parliament. He was a second-level MP, Ad. 1. Ad. 2. I was talking about Bešlagić as a paradigm of the insecurity of the citizens of this country, and being an MP is only a reason to gather together like this. 12 And the third thing, as a false allegation, although it may not be, is the first time that someone in this country is arrested on the orders of another state without the Hag.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11601	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Let's line up, Mr. Izetbegović, Mr. Sadik Ahmetović, allow me, Mr. Bakir Izetbegović, a little patience, Mr. Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11602	So this is the essence of what my colleague Lagumdžija said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11603	Uh, Sadik Ahmetović, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Sadik, Bećirović, excuse me a little, just to clear one thing up, Mr Izetbegović, please. Do we intend, now through replicas, to spend the next two hours wasting our time or do we decide whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken when calling this session? Here you go, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11604	I think, therefore, that the essence of this is, not in the name of Bešlagić, but in the fact that extradition is required from the neighbouring country, is it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11605	Please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11606	We recognise the Bosnian court and recognise international courts, so before Bešlagić was responsible for Sefer Halilović, commander of the BiH Army, Rasim Delić, commander of the BiH Army, will answer to Dudaković Atif, the commander of the BiH Army, and the commander will answer before the Bosnian court, whether, so he may be released. Even in a very rough way, the defenders of Srebrenica, Mr. Orić, were knocked out of his car and pulled out, etc. Well, we didn't do a session like this, so we're admitting these dishes. But that the man who defended Tuzla, after what happened in Bijeljina, then in Brcko, from that army he took to a country that protects war criminals, who had this one there, Karadžić and Mladić, so she didn't deliver them for years, that now Bešlagić delivers, it doesn't go, we can't do that. And we need to protect all these citizens and I think that people from the RS should be interested in protecting themselves from taking them this way to neighbouring countries, let's say in Zagreb, is it, to answer for something. They should be interested in protecting all citizens of this country. So, to confess to a Bosnian court which is a multiethnic court, which 13 is no Bosniak court, look at the names of prosecutors, judges, etc. and confess to international courts, primarily the Hague.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11607	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Sadik Ahmetović. Wrong quote, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11608	Dear Chairman, it has been said here on several occasions that all BiH citizens are being protected, to God. Here are two examples where they don't protect themselves. You know that international forces have committed crimes, so I'd say some other more difficult expression, assaulting a parishioner and making two priests permanent disabled. So, people who fight for life. Then Abazović's husband was killed, a death case, and a man was detained and released here. Can this be undermined by the same story and then, to God, under the protection of all BiH citizens here, only one case can be forced. So, don't replace the thesis, and we came from the best intentions to say what's the problem here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11609	Mr. Jovičić, whose allegations are you correcting?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11610	Mr. Izetbegović's quote, Mr. Lagumdžija, that they are not insinuating that they are allegedly protecting all BiH citizens, which is not true. Why wasn't there an emergency or special session then? Then why didn't the people who were attacked in their home protect themselves? Explosives, grenades, mines.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11611	Parliament reacted, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11612	He reacted, but there was no special session. Mr. Chairman, we're going to react to this in a regular procedure, not in such a way that we're forced to do this and that it's the whole case itself. The second thing, he blames Mr. Izetbegović's allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11613	Just a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11614	Of course there will always be controversy here that Mr. Bešlagić is a hero, a hero, as you will for the Bosniak people because he defended Tuzla. The Serbian side will be responsible for the crimes committed, but we will leave it to the judicial institutions that they prove it, not that we are now pushing the story whether or not it is. Therefore, we must not engage in comments before judicial institutions do so, because there will be no autonomy of the judiciary, nor 14 we will put ourselves in a position, in fact we will put ourselves in a position that we are in charge of everything and everything. So I ask you to respect the procedure and really plead whether a session is called here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11615	If you remember, Mr. Jovičić, I immediately asked for it, however, the replicas opened, I have to give people my word, people come forward. Here you go, Mr. Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11616	Here, the replica to Mr. Kalabić, therefore, I did not take this session today as a session I should come to defend against Mr. Bešlagić's possible responsibility, which will determine whether he is guilty or not. And that should be determined by the BiH Court of Justice. I came here because Mr. Bešlagić, as a citizen who did not call for the immunity of MPs, was arrested on the orders of another state, and those countries of which BiH citizens have big fears for a reason. They have fears of those sitting in the top positions in Belgrade governments who once carried Kalashnikovs in a nearby environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11617	So let's agree, then, whether we're going to have this whole session, or this whole association of ours, so to speak, and use the presence in replicas, or we're going to try and answer the question of how to continue. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić, wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11618	We will not, we will interrupt her, here, Mr. Chairman, given our position, because this when people watch and what Mr. Ahmetović is saying turns out that the police of Serbia and the judge and the prosecutor from Belgrade came and arrested Mr. Bešlagić. So it turns out, what they came from Belgrade arrested our man here in, no one mentions Interpol BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11619	We have Interpol's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11620	So, please, no one mentions the Interpol institution, is that an invitation to disband Interpol BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11621	No, no, no, Bog forbid. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11622	Is it an invitation when a BiH citizen makes a robbery or a heavy theft in the Western European countries that we give him refuge here, because he will be tried by our court. No one touches him until we decide to judge him. I want to say, and our message is that this is a dangerous topic related to judicial reform and all that we have said so far, that we are introducing practice on an individual case that we are making difficult assessments whether or not someone is right and which state has or does not have a judiciary, by which standards and how the state will probably speak to each Mitrović when the agreements were made, then no one has responded, that there is no right, then no one has said that the special prosecutor's office from Belgrade, what is now being said. So it was accepted that these institutions co-operate and do so. It's just that we didn't get involved in this business, you know what principles it was made on, and it works. We do not want to introduce such a practice in this way and send a message to all judicial and international institutions of respect, of importance, such as Interpol, that we do not want them in this way and that they will do as we give them instructions and what we like. Because people do not have the right information and do not know that Interpol BiH participated in this by clearly set international standards on how police structures work around the world. Whoever takes it for the right to say this out of that structure now is not, this is not good, you do not or within, for the fifth time I repeat and will not report again, I say, within the general debate, what the Implementation Council has said and what you can read every day, this Parliament should discuss it. But not like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11623	I've already got two, four, six, just a little bit, just a little bit, Mr. Bahtić, so I've got a registered six here, you're the seventh, replica, gentleman, just a little bit, I've got a sequence. Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović came forward half an hour ago, wanted to say something, and I haven't been giving him my word for 15, 20 minutes, if you don't mind the man saying it. All right, Mr. Bećirović, let's take it in a row. Hadžiahmetović, replica. You're the last to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11624	I have been working on the thought of giving up the replica for a faster work, or more efficient work by Parliament, but I see that others do not. I must say that discussion and reaction and replicas especially some fellow MPs are more like fear, possibly, discussion, the content of a discussion that would open up to, therefore, a particular case. Now, I would suggest that everyone wonders why someone's running away from the debate of this species. Secondly, if and with someone bidding this item of the agenda and an appointment of an emergency session causes associations to some previous cases, I will tell you that, as far as I know, and for a long time I've been in parliamentary work both parliaments and federal parliaments, this was never the case, no case has been like this. I'm only going to talk about the occasion, so I'm not talking about a specific case. I'm talking about the occasion that's scheduled for discussion. 16 and third, I would suggest that we really work, that we finally start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11625	Here's the false quote, Mr. Živković. Well, here you go, Mr. Bahtić, I'll give you my word right now if you want, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11626	Mr. Beriz, you're always interrupting me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11627	Bog forbid, did you get a chance to talk?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11628	No, I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11629	You've had your chance, you've got the order, Mr. Bahtić. Here, it's okay, right behind Živković, incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11630	I think it's okay that an incorrect quote is immediately, uh, that word since it concerns directly
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11631	I do, I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11632	A false allegation regarding Professor Azra Hadžiahmetović. The netačan assumption is that someone here is afraid to discuss this subject. Because if someone here was afraid to discuss this subject today, perhaps as some, we wouldn't even come. Just because we're not afraid to discuss this subject, on the contrary, we think we should discuss this subject, we came here today. But we're going to go one step further, so we don't mean this way that we need to discuss this issue, because it's not just here the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and the Constitution has been broken. The BiH Constitution preamble says all people are equal. A man was arrested the other day in the same way in Serbia. That's why he's not the same as the MP here that got arrested. So this is where the Constitution is broken. If anyone wanted to, and I think they're all the same, there's no MP or citizen of BiH. I think that constitution here should be watched. Therefore, if someone here wanted to talk about it when hundreds of people were arrested in Croatia and had BiH citizenship, no special session was called. That is what we are talking about here and I believe that this debate should be interrupted, in terms of voting, whether 17 of this Assembly is today called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. When we discuss it, then we'll open the question and see who's afraid and who's not afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11633	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here I found out, just a minute, here I found out I broke the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić, wrong quote. Oh, no problem, just answer it, I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11634	A false allegation of Mr Ahmetović's replica, the denominator, who said BiH citizens live in fear of a government there from Serbia. I must tell my esteemed colleague Sadik Ahmetović that the citizens of BiH, and myself, have no fear, nor am I interested in who is the president of Serbia there and their.... I am interested, as counterpart Bakir Izetbegović said, that the republic, or those republics, is being arrested by our citizens, and that same republic is being freed by war criminals. So there's no fear. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11635	Thank you. Hadžiahmetović, wrong quote. Mr. Kalabić, break for 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11636	Gentlemen, after this break, we feel that it is unfortunate to continue to conduct a debate beyond the agenda point, we believe that the best thing that you have proposed from the beginning of the session is, in fact, we have not started it properly, to make it clear, so that your proposal is whether this session is called in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because to take part in a debate beyond the agenda point and to open it up further, it really loses its purpose for us and we do not see our participation further in the debate today, if we work in this way. That's why we're proposing that we get to the bottom of this right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11637	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Here, I am now asking colleagues who applied for replicas, so Mr. Bećirović, Mr. Kadrić, Mr. Križanović, Mr. Lozančić, Mr. Hadjiahmetović, the wrong quote was, was it Azra? You gave up. So, I ask them if they will refrain from the replica and go to the plea, if I have violated the Rules of Procedure when calling this session. Here, I ask you then, if you don't give up, please, you want, you want. 18 here you go, Mr. Kalabić, so I have to ask. People checked in, drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11638	Indeed, I appreciate that you have to ask them, that is not disputed. I said, I'm our attitude, then that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11639	I totally understood him and I asked if they were giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11640	We say clearly and loudly, in this way we will not continue to participate, this is not a debate. This is an additional violation of the Rules of Procedure and we will not participate. For who knows what time I said, there is a willingness of the SNSD Club and we came here today to say that we want to discuss this, we have said in what way we want to discuss this, we have said all our remarks, unlike what Mr Živković said, some of whom have not come, I think that you should appreciate it and that we are looking for solutions in this direction. And that everyone for that kind of debate, in the way we propose and I don't see anything controversial. Indeed, last time I say, in this way, we are not prepared to participate, it will be our autonomous decision. So I'm asking you, if we can approach the vote, if we don't, then it's that one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11641	Mr. Kalabić, I understood what you're talking about, but I had an obligation to ask the people who applied, who I registered, if they were giving up. If they had given up, we would have joined the vote immediately. People want to replicate, say what they signed up for. I can't just take away these people. They can appeal, however, people obviously stay on their own. But here, I have Mr. Lozančić, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11642	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the honored guests, here, I didn't mean to take part in the debate until the opening of the agenda point, and I must say, first, that I don't think Mr. President broke the Rules of Procedure in calling this session, and that I thought he broke the Rules of Procedure, then, in accordance with the same Rules of Procedure, I would have warned Mr. President before this session that he had no right to convene a session. I think he made a mistake at the session today, and that's why I'm doing business. I think he opened up a debate about the agenda without calling her that. So, we could only open today's debate on the agenda and plead whether there are proposals to supplement the agenda, for change, for change, for correction, for not knowing what. The very fact that by the beginning of this session no one is alive, so no one alive in the business-planned procedure has asked the president to plead with the College, to declare whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken or not, in my opinion, that this one, it questions whether there are 19 needs to discuss it at all today, whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been broken. And we can discuss in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, today when the session is launched on whether the agenda item is valid, well-conceived, misconceived and whether there is a proposal possibly to supplement the agenda, so in this sense I propose to the chairman that the continuation of the session be conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11643	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Here, Mr. Živković has, too, an incorrect name. I said at the beginning of the session that people had publicly said that I had broken, and I said that I was not a man who said, "It doesn't matter." So I insisted that the question, as before, be cleared up. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11644	I thank the chairman. Here, just because of the clarification, so I think it's official and when at the official session of the College, the narrow college we had this morning, it's a warning in the way that the Rules of Procedure has been warned, and that's when we discussed, the way we're going to enter this session. There were suggestions to discuss the previous issue before the session was even opened. Our common position was to discuss this issue in this way, when we open a session to the College, or Home, ask if the Rules of Procedure had been broken in this case. So I think it's an official statement from the hedge college that this is how we opened this session and I think we should stick to that agreement and that the Dom is determined accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11645	Thank you, Mr. Živković. I once again appeal to those who have applied, to give me the opportunity to make this home known whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken when calling this session. Well, here you go, Mr. Bećirović, here you go. Yours and yours, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11646	Mr. Belkić, I really don't understand why you're talking to me like that. After more than an hour of debate, I signed up neatly for the discussion, and I don't understand why you'd want that tone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11647	Well, here, you'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11648	So negative connotation 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11649	You'll see soon enough
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11650	At the time of the address.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11651	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11652	Well, he can't in half discuss business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11653	It may be that at any moment you can ask that the quorum is missing in this room, that the chairman realizes that the quorum is gone and that no session can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11654	I'll determine if we have a quorum. I'm asking the service to determine if we have a quorum to continue the operation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11655	I must say, this is the first time I've seen that in half the discussion of an MP, someone voluntarily, besides you, Mr. Chairman, comes out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11656	He had a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11657	And interrupt the speaker you gave your word to and address Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11658	I, unfortunately, must establish that we do not have a quorum, or that we have lost the quorum, that we have only one, two MPs from the RS. So, Mr. Hadži Jovan Mitrović and Mr. Sadik Ahmetović. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11659	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, no matter what the Rules of Procedure on the work of the House of Representatives, we do not have a quorum, therefore, because we do not have five RS MPs here at the session, I would like to ask you, as chairman, to address the High Representative of the international community in BiH and in this request to introduce him to this situation. This is not the first time this Parliament has come into a situation, this is one very 21 dangerous thing. Dejton requires all of us in BiH, including entities and people elected in entities, to participate in the functioning of BiH institutions, and that decisions will be made within BiH institutions. This is
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11660	We don't have a quorum, uh, I'm gonna take a 60-minute break now and we'll try to find a solution. Just to finish the gentleman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11661	This is, therefore, a situation where the institution cannot function at all because, here, you see, I think, we had this practice last year when Parliament could not function and simply everyone must know in BiH that the BiH Parliament cannot be brought into this situation, that it cannot continue working because someone will not participate in Parliament's work, and it is known that its presence is necessary as a condition for Parliament to function.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11662	I agree, too, Mr. Džaferović. Here, let's take a 60-minute break. I call on the club presidents to hold a meeting immediately, please, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11663	I have to, really.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11664	Where are you inviting us?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11665	Club presidents here on the second floor of the O.R. where we usually meet.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11666	Since we have no quorum for further work, it is illusory to continue to discuss and discuss anything, but I would like to express a protest against the way in which you, Mr. Belkić, chaired this House, chaired this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11667	I believe it's my fault for the whole situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11668	I must say that you should first listen to the MPs and that the Rules of Procedure did not give you the right to enter the word while the MP speaks. That's one. 22 Under two, I do not understand, business, at the moment when the MP was told to address Parliament, how, besides your knowledge, someone could go out for a pay phone and speak. And after that, again, it is not the MP who is interrupted but the next MP, which is absolutely unfounded in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and I believe you will agree. And since there's no quorum, it's not worth discussing any further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-21-0.u11669	But here, I listened to you. Break an hour. I'd like the presidents of the clubs here in the O.R., where we usually keep an extended college. The session was completed at 12:30. [[PAUZA]]
