ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u129	Dear fellow MPs, fellow representatives, present members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, ministers and other officials of the Council of Ministers and of the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I find that all representatives from all three constituent nations are present today at the 3rd session. For the 3rd session, I propose the following, amended and updated agenda, compared to the one you received with the call for a session. It has been amended because the point of the budget, based on Article 123(2), has been removed. The Rules of Procedure, because according to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, the Budget is first considered by the House of Representatives. 1. So far, I have not received any parliamentary questions in writing as provided for in Article 145. Rules of Procedure, but we'll get to that point when we adopt the agenda. 2. The adoption of the Minutes of the Constitutional and 2nd Sessions of the House of Peoples So if there are written issues you can deliver them, here, while we determine the agenda. 3. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Act on Additional Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina Act under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 4. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples 5. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a haste procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples 6. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 7. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, pursuant to Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 2 8. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Security Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina pursuant to a hasty procedure, pursuant to Article 122. Home 9 Rules of Procedure. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a system of indirect taxation in Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 10. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Putting Off the Force of the Law on Compassion of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples 11. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 12. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 13. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Act on the temporary ban on the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 14. Application of the House of Representatives to consider the Law on the adoption of the Law on the Making of Names or Changing of Existing Names of Objects and Legal Persons of Public Interest for Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Nations 15. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Payments and other fees in the judicial and judicial institutions at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples 16. Application from the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Election Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples 17. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the temporary prohibition of the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People (so, the first one was the earlier date, this one was from 18.03.2006) 18. Application by the House of Representatives for examination of the Law on the adoption of the Act on the temporary ban on the availability of state property of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations 19. Application of the House of Representatives for the adoption of the Decision extending the mandate of the State Commission for the Review of the Decision on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens (High Representative Decision of 15 February 2007. 20. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples (this is the old Rules of Procedure, the Law has been since 8.9.2006) 21. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of House 3 22. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples 23. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of the Peoples 24. Proposal for a law on violations - Proposer of the Council of Ministers (first reading) 25. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Border Service of BiH (second reading) 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Federal Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Austria on Police Cooperation 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Air Transport Agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of Lebanon 28. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Austrian Federal Government on the reading of persons who have an illegal stay 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) 30. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia on the reading of persons 31. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia on cooperation in the fight against crime, in particular terrorism, illicit drug trafficking and organised crime 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Land Registration Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 34. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan on reciprocal improvement and protection of investments 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden on a simplified procedure for the reading of persons who do not have permission to enter or stay 36. Giving consent to ratification of the European Social Charter – revised in Strasbourg 3.5.1996 in 37. Giving consent to ratifying the ECSEE Funding Agreement (the "Component for Bosnia and Herzegovina") between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association (IDA) 38. Giving consent to ratifying the Convention on Police Cooperation for Southeast Europe 39. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of India on the promotion and protection of investments 40. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Transport between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Socialist People's arapski Džamahirija 41.. Granting consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Benelux countries (Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg) on the readmission and return of persons who entered the Agreement without authorisation and the Protocol on the implementation of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Benelux countries (Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg) on the readmission and return of persons who entered the Agreement without authorisation 42. Approving the ratification of a multilateral agreement between the European Union and its Member States, the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Iceland, the Republic of Montenegro, the Kingdom of Norway, Romania, Serbia, and the International Administrative Mission of the United Nations in Kosovo on the establishment of the European Common Aviation Area (ECAA) 43. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the High Representative for BiH and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Office of the Office of the Department of War Crimes and the II Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Criminal and Appealal Department of the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the Special Department for War Crimes and the Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the establishment of a Transition Council replacing the Agreement establishing the Office of the Register of 1.12.2004 and the Annex to that Agreement 44. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank - Road project in Bosnia and Herzegovina (Sarajevska detournica) 45. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal and the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal 46. Giving consent to ratifying the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Road Reconstruction Project in Republika Srpska 47. Giving consent to ratifying the FP 1523 loan framework agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank – Mostar 48 High School Reconstruction Project. Giving consent to ratifying the FP 1520 Framework Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Council of Europe Development Bank - financing the reconstruction of the primary health care system 49. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology and medicine – the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine and Additional Protocol 50. Giving consent to the ratification of the Project Credit Agreement – A project to improve rural entrepreneurship between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Agricultural Development Fund (IFAD) 51. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the adoption of an amendment to the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the road transport of passengers and cargo 52. The election of MPs from the House of Nations to the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in 5a) The Organisation for European Security and Co-operation – OSCE b) Central European Initiative c) The Interparliamentary Group of BiH at the Interparliamentary Union d) the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (e) the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance - NATO This is a harmonised, therefore, agenda, therefore, the updated agenda of the National Assembly. Is anyone picking up? Any requests for a change? Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u131	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have two things that are related to the technical partial procedure itself. The first thing is to ask delegate questions. There's a difference, so the ones that do it, but I think we should start by figuring out how. I think it's logical that after the question is asked, if it's done orally, then at the very session of the House, the written content of the question is delivered to the competent person as an argument, or as evidence. That's one thing. And the other thing is about procedure, too. I remind you that in the invitation delivered to delegates for the third session of the House of Nations, it is said that this third session will take place at 9:30. I am afraid, given today's delay, that this will not turn into a principle, I ask that our responsibility to both citizens and to ourselves and to the guests sitting here, that you stick to the agenda that stands in the act and that in the future until such delays, without comment, means, without any explanation that they are not happening in the future. It's a good suggestion to make our work more responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u132	Thank you very much. So that's something that doesn't touch the proposed agenda. However, when we adopt the agenda, therefore, behavior relative to the point of representation issues. The Hrvat Club was late for this session. I can tell you from experience that this will also happen because of the needs of other clubs in office. It's hard to avoid because we had such tight sessions of committees both at home, individual debates, it was waiting here very long yesterday and you were with the Committee on Budgets of the House of Nations waiting for the results of point 3. The House of Representatives. We've been waiting for nothing, taken off the agenda. We, objectively, had we known that we would have waited so empty, we might have held a session of the club yesterday. Maybe we could adjust, uh, but that didn't happen, we had a club session this morning, maybe you did it earlier and that's why. So, an apology to everyone who's been waiting, but these waitings are possible and future, therefore, for the reason that they're going to need some other clubs. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u133	I'm aware of that. And so far, these delays have been happening, but I'm asking you to do some inexplicable waitings, I'm talking about inexplicable waitings, that they don't have room. So, if 6 has the need for Dom to be late for the session, I ask you that the people who are here, who have submitted their time and others to the scheduled session, to inform them that there will be a delay. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u134	Thank you very much. We've learned that, heard all the colleagues from all the clubs, we're going to try to behave, and we're sorry that we're not here at times on time. Here, right at the beginning of the work. Is there anyone else here to take your word for it? Therefore, in accordance with Article 60 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, since there are no amendments and no additions, no amendments to the amendments and additions, are deemed to have adopted the agenda. We're crossing, so at the first item of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. Agents' questions and answers You have seen that the Rules of Procedure provided for in writing these questions. No, please, _________(?) [[speaks from place, not turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u137	So the question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads: Public Procurement Act "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 49/04, 19/05, 52/05, 8/06 and 24/06, came into force on 10.11.2004, after which they ceased to apply regulations at the level of BiH and entities that were in force until the law was passed. The Agency for Public Procurement, and neither the Office for Appeals until today have functioned at full capacity. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me: what will they do to strengthen these institutions in terms of making the necessary rules for the implementation of the law? I beg your answer on the written path.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u138	Thank you very much. I'm just asking you to turn that matter over to the secretariat in writing. I think Mr. Šaraba called.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u139	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, my question has been addressed and addressed to three addresses. It is the same text of the question, and it says: Does it also intend to take the BiH Presidency, the BiH Council of Ministers, the Joint College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses in the procedure of implementing the Constitutional Court's decision No. 953/05 of 08 July 2006, which was delivered to the abovementioned institutions, in order to ensure the right to an effective legal remedy against those decisions of the High Representative who are criminally punished by BiH citizens and who are deprived, suspended and restricting constitutional rights under the BiH Constitution? A brief explanation. Constitutional Court decision on the appeals of Milorad Bilbija and Dragan Kalinić No. 953 was adopted on 8 July 2006, whose written statement was only in mid-February 2007, has a very principled and general significance since the High Representative, in previous years, has penalised about 200 BiH citizens and taken them away, limited them to certain and indefinite times, civil, political, social, economic rights and caused them damage. Since the Constitutional Court has obliged the most constitutional authorities of BiH, including the Parliamentary Assembly, to provide the applicants with an effective legal remedy against the decisions of the High Representative, and since there are a large number of appeals before the Constitutional Court for the remaining citizens who are criminally punished by the decisions of the High Representative, who are currently fully legal and civil helpless and disproved, I ask this question to the said institutions to answer me orally.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u140	Thank you very much. The officer will come to you. You stay put. Does anyone else have any representation questions? I'm closing point one, therefore, Agent Affairs. We're moving on to second point, Ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the constitutive and other meetings of the House of Peoples First, we will adopt the record from the constitutional session of the House of Peoples. You've reached the call log. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. 8 I am putting on a plea, therefore, the record. Please, we will vote in cardboard because the conditions for electronic voting have not yet been met in accordance with Article 76, paragraph 4. of our Rules of Procedure. You'll read and see, it's about the use of official languages in this country. So, I'm putting the record of the constitutive session on the record. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the record of the constitutional session. Now we will approach the adoption of the minutes of the second session of the House of Peoples. Is anyone picking up? If no one is answering for a word, please let us also state that we accept this record. Who's in? I agree that we have unanimously accepted the minutes of the second session of the House of Peoples. Before we move to the vote on the following laws, I would just like to note that from point 3 to point 19, the laws declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative, adopted by the House of Representatives and delivered it to us as a proposal. All the laws are being considered, you saw, according to Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, by haste procedure, have no amendments. So, a statement on these laws without any change of those laws. We're crossing, so on point three, that's Ad. 3. Application of the House of Representatives to consider the Law on the adoption of the Act on Additional Amendments and Supplements to the Central Bank Act of BiH (in a hurry procedure) pursuant to Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u143	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I'm going to say something generally related to all of these laws from point 2 to point 19. I think by accepting that we are considering these laws, therefore, in this scope as it is today and in this way by haste procedure, I am expressing my personal opinion, so we, as a legislative body, are coming into a specific situation. I have to say first that it's in Article 3. The Protocol, which goes with the European Convention on Human Rights, has established that the legislative body chooses the people. So, 9 we are this legislative body that should adopt all these laws, whether in a regular procedure or in an emergency procedure. So this right of the High Representative has been deprived of all its contents. Secondly, my skepticism towards the way the High Representative imposed these laws is also determined in a document called the Opinion on the constitutional situation in BiH, so it is the Venice Commission that adopted and presented the report on 11 March and in this Venice Commission doubts whether these laws should be imposed in this way or whether the democratically elected state bodies adopt them in a democratic procedure. In the end, we MPs, too, can ask why we should pass laws and not leave it to the High Representative. The risk is, then, as said in this document, and I fully accept it, to create a culture of addiction that is incompatible with the development of BiH and its entities. And precisely because of all of this that is stated here, and as I accept as a man, I cannot personally accept the adoption of such laws and I will be against them in this way as it has been determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Šarab. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. Dušanka Majkić, I apologize. You called me late.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u145	I would like more, uh, perhaps as an explanation that we owe to the delegates of this home, that the decisions that the High Representative acted on, so, instead of the domestic authorities, were made as temporary and required by the domestic authorities to adopt them. And if they adopt them, we need it to change them. As long as they are adopted in the original form, imposed, in fact, by the OHR, by the High Representative, they cannot tolerate change. So, the need for this home, this parliamentary assembly to accept these laws, thus declaring them its own and at the same time can make changes on them. That's why it suits us to adopt these changes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u146	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? Now, I'd like to conclude the debate. I don't think anyone's gonna answer. I would now ask you, therefore, because there are no amendments, we have heard these remarks, that we vote to accept, therefore, in the package, the laws of point 3, at the conclusion of point 19, that we do not go from point to point. It's the same story, therefore, for every law at all of these points, including point 19. Who, therefore, is in line with Article 122 of these laws from points 3 to 19, in conclusion with 19? Please raise your hand to those who are in, to count. Who's against it? 10 Who Is Restraint? So, with 14 votes to, one vote against, we've adopted these laws on the agenda from point 3 to the end of point 19. It's point 20, Ad.20. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, this is about the old Rules of Procedure, the old Rules of Procedure of Article 100 is the new Rules of Procedure of Articles 102 - 22 Therefore, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure, the House shall decide on a request for consideration of the Law in accordance with this article after the debate. I am obliged to inform you that the House of Representatives has not adopted the request of the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Law by a hasty procedure, but the law will be discussed in regular procedure. I suggest we do this the same way. But you will vote to decide as you wish. The amendments don't apply. And I'm opening a debate. So, we're voting on the procedure, the following laws are, therefore, only voting on the procedure, whether it goes by a brief procedure, by a hasty procedure, or by a regular procedure. We're voting on procedure. So I repeat once again, the House of Representatives did not accept the Council of Ministers' request to be considered in a hasty procedure without the action of the amendment, without commission action, without debate in committees, but said that the law is being discussed in a regular procedure, which means, therefore, the commission phase, the amendment action and only then the House's statement. I suggest we do it the same way. So we're voting on procedure. I put first the statement, therefore, of the Council of Ministers' proposal to vote in a hasty procedure. Who's in? Who's in? No one. Who's against it? The fact that no one was there meant that it was going into a regular procedure. Thank you very much. We're going to point 21, Ad.21. Also, a request from the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u152	I thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable fellow envoys, I have been given the authority to present our views on behalf of the Committee when it comes to this law. I really don't have much reason to talk about this except for two things. After a long debate on the committee, we unanimously opted to support both the constitutional basis and the principles of this law and, as you yourself said, to support the amendment that I have personally invested, in order to bring the text of the Law adopted at our home as the House of Representatives did. I suggest here, and I suggest we adopt such a position.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. So, while we learn a little about who's chairing the committee. Mr. Jović is the chairman of the constitutional committee of this house. Since there is also a representative of the proposer, Honorable Minister Čolak, does he need to take a word for this point? There's no need. If the MPs are asking you to know that he is present here, therefore, Minister of Justice, Mr. Čolak, on behalf of the promoter. I'm opening a debate. We heard the report from the relevant committee. I'm closing the debate. No one's answering for a word. I'm putting on a statement, so the law in the first reading. Who's in? We unanimously accepted the law in our first reading. 13 I suggest we discuss how the House of Representatives did in the second reading. Who's in favor of having a discussion in another reading? Shall we make a statement, shall we discuss it in another reading? Does anyone mind? Restraint? Can I conclude that we unanimously accepted that, then? I suggest yes, we accepted the debate in the second reading. Is there any need to speak? I am putting on the plea of the Law with the amendment adopted and with the Commission's report finally. Who's in? I find that we unanimously passed this law, the bill of violation in the second reading. And it was adopted in the same text as the House of Representatives. So he can go on the announcement. So this is the first law adopted in the second reading in the new assembly of the House of Peoples. Congratulations. The promoter is satisfied, therefore, and the minister of justice. It's point 25, Ad.25. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH State Border Service Act, also second reading This is the bill of law adopted in the last session in the first reading. At today's session, we are considering the bill's proposal in the second reading. In the second reading, let me remind you, there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the law. And there was no amendment to the bill. The House of Representatives passed the Law in both readings in the proposed text and I suggest that we do the same. I therefore put the bill on amendments to the Law on the State Border Service of BiH in the second reading. Who's in? I agree that we have unanimously adopted, therefore, the Law, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service, in the same text as the House of Representatives, and this Law can be published. So, thank you all for working on this law. Ad. 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Federal Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Austria on Police Cooperation
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u158	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I feel obliged in front of my colleagues and in front of the public present at this session to explain why I, too, would do the absent colleague Rudojević, we are voting against this proposal. And we don't want it to be understood that we have anything against other names, especially from representatives of other peoples. It is absolutely a relationship within the Croatian club, where decisions are made by absolute revote. This is our answer in that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Anybody else want a word? We won't deny a word to anyone, whether or not the vote has passed. So, we'll be maximum tolerance according to the wishes of each representative. So I think we've absorbed this agenda point. Ad. 53rd Report on the participation of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 01.03.2006 to 31.08.2006? You have received a report on the participation of these armed forces, police and state officials in peace support operations for this period and the Joint Defence and Security Commission Report on BiH. The House of Representatives accepted the report in the text as it is in this home. I'm opening a debate. Perhaps it would be good to hear from the chairman of the Joint Committee. Here you go, Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u161	My colleagues and colleagues, there's not much to say here. This report was on the Commission, the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, was unanimously accepted, though in the package and the Report and Decision on the extension of the mandate of the BiH Armed Forces troops to destroy unexploded killings in the peace support operation "Iraq Freedom" in Iraq. As chairman of the Commission, I propose that this House accept both the Report and the Presidency Decisions. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u162	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it on the line. You heard the report. Uh, I suggest we accept the report as well as the House of Representatives. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the report in question. Ad. The 54th decision is to extend the mandate of the BiH Armed Forces troops to destroy unexploded killings in the peace support operation "Iraq Freedom" in Iraq. You've made your decision. You've heard the report from the commission. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? I'm putting on a plea and this decision. The decision was also accepted by the House of Representatives. Who's in? Does anyone mind? So, unanimously, I conclude that the House of Nations has adopted this Decision as well. Ad. The 55th is the appointment of the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u165	(departed from the microphone) Undisputed, but I would just like to say that I congratulate Mr Čampara and say that this is a great commitment he has in view of the current state of the House of Peoples and that I expect that he will sincerely help the College to get to all the secretaries of the committee as soon as possible and make this home more operational. In that name, I thank you and expect what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-03-30-0.u166	18 I am concluding the work of the 3rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and you have already received calls. So we'll see each other here on April 4th when we have a joint session of both homes and then we'll have the House of Peoples, the College will decide on the materials it gets. Thank you very much. It's possible, we haven't decided yet, we don't know the development of the situation. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 10:45.
