ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14049	...amendments, honored guests, members of the Council of Ministers, continue the 16th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to continue the session next to the MPs, as usual. I warmly welcome and agree that the session is attended by a total of 33 MPs (Federation of BiH 22, RS 11). We have a quorum to decide. Due to the official route, they are justifiably absent: Velimir Jukić, Sadik Ahmetović, Snježana Rajilić, Husein Nanić and Denis Bećirović. Let me remind you that we have remained unrealized the following points of the adopted agenda from the 16th session. 1. Information on rationalisation in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2. Proposal for a SDP MP's Club for the Reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH, 3. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the conclusions of the 59rd and 73rd sessions of the previous House of Ministers, we are moving to the first point of the session: Ad.1. Information on the rationalisation in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the decisions made, the criteria for their decision-making, the effects of decisions taken, and further steps in this area - the proposal of MP Momčilo Novaković I will remind you that on two occasions we asked the BiH presidency and the Foreign Ministry for appropriate material for this agenda item. For the first time since the submission of the Parliament of Honorable Novaković's initiative, at the 14th session, and the second time after the 15th session, when we removed this item from the agenda for lack of material and concluded that we would include it in the 16th session agenda. Unfortunately, we have not yet received written material that could serve as a basis for discussion. The point is still on the agenda. I'm opening the debate. However, Minister Sven Alkalaj is here and I think it would be good if we didn't have a written proposal, if necessary, to address the MPs on this agenda point. Here you go, Minister. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14051	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members, allow me to make a few brief notes. At the request of the Bureau at their session on 14 March, we provided one information that had a character strictly confidential and where we gave the criteria that we had taken into account in the proposal for the rationalisation of the DKP network. I can repeat those criteria. They were based and widely accepted in international diplomatic practice and looking at all these elements we came up with concrete proposals to close two embassies and one consular representation from the existing three in Germany, with the fact that, afterwards, by decision of the Presidency, a changed destination of the General Consulate to be closed, and that was quite familiar in the public and there were violent reactions and our citizens living and working in Germany, and thus we came to the opportunity to talk about this topic. I will give very briefly some criteria that we have managed in making a final decision and a proposal to the Presidency to decide on the closure of BiH's diplomatic and consular representations abroad. The criteria that were at the moment of the establishment of a single DKP were political reasons, the importance of the country of accreditation, permanent members of the UN Security Council, EU member states, whether it was a NATO member, neighbours and significant countries. Secondly, there were economic reasons, the current situation, the scale and quality of our trade relations, investments and opportunities for further improvement. Furthermore, whether it is the headquarters of world and regional organisations of importance in the field of multilateral co-operation, whether it is the organisation of the UN, the EU, NATO, the Stability Pact, SECEF and other regional organisations. Furthermore, the number and organisation of the BiH diaspora. A reciprocity factor was taken as a factor, i.e. whether the country has an embassy in BiH, what are our political relations between the two countries and when the country or whether the country intends to open its embassy in BiH. In all of this, we also considered the possibility of non-resident coverage, since BiH is not a rich country, and diplomacy is a very expensive sport, and it is better to have a smaller number of diplomatic and consular representatives who will be really good mirrors of BiH in the world, than to have such cases where people either do not receive salaries or that these representations look very poor and then create a counterproductive picture. And finally, the possibility of improving business co-operation. Now, when we evaluated our diplomatic and consular network and audited each on the basis of the criteria proposed above, we went from assuming the quality of the essential and formal representation of BiH. So, what has been since the establishment of a diplomatic and consular representation in recent years is to see what communication, knowledge and delivery of relevant information to the state authorities in the decision-making function in relations with the accreditation countries has been like. Furthermore, the existence of political will in the state of admission to strengthen mutual co-operation and in this direction 3 create legal and other assumptions for all forms of co-operation. We believe that one of the important factors is the activity of protecting the interests of BiH citizens and legal entities and efforts to resolve open issues between BiH and the state of accreditation. And in that sense, we also created an additional table where we created a parallel table for our neighbouring countries or countries in the region, for example. as Croatia or Slovenia and a small country like Ireland, where they have diplomatic and consular representations in the world. And based on all these, comparing these analyses, we came up with a proposal to close the BiH Embassy in Pretoria -- the South African Republic, and then we came to close the Embassy in Buenos Aires in Argentina and close the BiH General Consulate in Stuttgart, which was changed to close the General Consulate in Bono. We have seen all these elements in order to rationalise the calculation to save these three diplomatic and consular representations about a million and 400 marks a year. What we wanted to do with this and say, because if I give you the information that we've had since 1997 from Argentina. The embassy, we can't make two good files to make the information we got. There was a slightly larger amount of correspondence with the South African Republic, but there were no major political effects, and by the way, neither these countries nor have diplomatic and consular representations in our country. Argentina is covering us from Vienna, while the South African Republic is covering us from Greece. Therefore, all the elements are instructions that these two embassies should be closed, due to the effects they have not achieved in the past 10 years. Now there's the question of the General Consulate, how to provide complete coverage and meet the needs of our citizens. Basically, we wanted to keep our citizens from being denied here. And when we talk about the role of the General Consulate, the General Consulate/Shortly Interrupted Liaison/No matter what we think we're just satisfying it, the General Consulate should play the role of one economic connector between the economy in the region, especially Germany which is strong and BiH and at the promotion and integration of bh. Company. We, unfortunately, had neither the general consulate nor the qualifications structure, nor the people who did it, but we were simply a passport store, certifying certificates. Now, surely there is a way to improve, and the Presidency is following these remarks that we had given us a concrete task, and we have completed this analysis that we will deliver to the Presidency and, of course, to the Parliamentary Assembly: on the rationalisation and proposals that we think we are going to implement only for the consulates in Germany, in what way we will overcome the situation to meet the needs of our citizens to achieve this element of economic integration in the future and that our citizens are not damaged by anything, and all of their needs to be satisfied. There are more ways, I wouldn't go into detail right now, so I won't bother, I'll be there to answer all your questions, but that information will be delivered to the Bureau for consideration in the next week. Thank you. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14052	I thank the minister. I'm opening a debate. Please sign in. Dear Ambassador Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14053	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, ministers, fellow MPs, esteemed guests and, of course, media representatives, since I insisted on this agenda point and since I have proposed it so far, I must express the satisfaction that here after all this time she was on the agenda, or found herself in front of us to discuss it. Of course, in doing so, I must also express my dissatisfaction that we have not received written material, any written material for this part of the agenda, if anything else, at least one that is not strictly pov. Now, I don't know if this is strictly pom. which is now orally worn and remains strictly pom. Or isn't it? I have to say that I was thinking before this agenda point whether all I have is material to multiply for all MPs, and I have at least one two kilograms in relation to this agenda point. So, the decision we asked for to be delivered, I guess it's not strictly pom. I too have this decision simply to say: BiH embassies are closing in the Republic of Argentina, South Africa, and the BiH General Consulate in the Federal Republic of Germany – Bon. I have to say that I have more information about this General Consulate in Bona than about Argentina... and, of course, Pretoria, even though I've tried to get to this data, but unfortunately I haven't been able to get to it, so I have a lot more information about this shut down of this consulate. First of all, because I received them from our citizens themselves, and here I have 50 papers only published in the press, so only what was published in the press, related to the shutting down of the Consulate in Bon, where we have statements from different institutions, associations and immediately to say that they are multiethnic character. So it's not about any question concerning only one nation, regardless of what the largest number of users of services in this consulate are from the order of the Serb people. I've heard here from the minister that different criteria have been used, so these are political reasons, the importance of the country, the economic reasons, whether it's a seat that's significant, means in some ways whether the country has an embassy, etc. etc. I'm afraid some parts of this decision can hardly withstand the application of these criteria. BiH has no embassies here in the following countries where it has embassies, which are Argentina, Australia, India, Indonesia, Israel, South Africa, Jordan, Qatar, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. So these are the countries where we have an embassy, and five of them don't have an embassy with us. Of these countries, as we can see, two have been elected, Argentija and the South African Republic. I wish I had an argument really about the selection criteria of these two. Especially when it comes to Argentina, which is the only embassy in South America. So we don't have any more after this decommissioning of any embassy in South America. It's not like there's really no need for services in South America. Speaking to colleagues from the Croatian people, I realized that there are other types of problems here, and above all tourism opportunities or resources... from which BiH can benefit, using some tourist destinations in BiH, which are alive interested citizens of South America, primarily Catholics. When it comes to Bon, I have to say not to go into political reasons because I'm just afraid of political reasons for shutting down the General Consulate in Bono. I'll talk about these other criteria. The meaning of the earth? Of course, we do not need to talk about how important the Federal Republic of Germany is for BiH and as a partner and economic and economic, of course, in politics as one of the most important EU countries and founders. Economic reasons? In the period from 1.1. to 31.8.2007, the General Consulate in Bon achieved income from 1.115.335 KM and is second in importance, meaning, or after collecting economic funds from all BiH consulates. The savings of a million and something, as the minister said, $1,400,000 seems rather small to me in relation to the effects we can lose here by shutting down this General Consulate. This consulate cost BiH from 1.1 to 31.12.2006 in 332.879,40 marks or up to 14.6.2007. 143,119,83 marks economically observed and that the economic reasons cannot be defining the reasons for the suspension of the General Consulate in Bono. Is this about a significant seat? Well, I guess Bon is as significant as the seat, if nothing else, the former capital then Germany and, of course, a significant commercial headquarters, or Bon headquarters, but the region is economically significant. And of course, does the country have an embassy or not? Absolutely, therefore, the Federal Republic of Germany has an embassy in BiH that certainly has great importance in the relations between the two countries. When this decision was made,... So the presidency had to have some other criteria than those that were said here, because they obviously don't stand or at least don't stand enough. You see, this decision on rationalisation was made on 9 May 2007. From 9 May to 10 August, there was no more significant activity to inform the foreign ministry on 10 August about the need to take immediate action to implement this decision. So we lost one significant period of preparation for the execution of the decision than we got to do it urgently. The diplomatic note sent to the Federal Republic of Germany is contrary to Article 4(3). The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations since 24 April 1963, which said that the State can make subsequent changes to the consulate headquarters, its rank or its consular 6 areas only with the consent of the state of reception. So here at least I didn't find a document that the state of reception agreed to this change. I think the reasons are of some other nature and it would be correct and fair to this House and this Parliament if at least some of those reasons were presented. I'd say, here's really interesting to say what it is then rationalization in the DKP network if you shut down this consulate that brings the most money. Or, please, whether the rationalization of the admission of the Technical Secretary of Correspondent to the Consulate in Bon is a certain Mrs. Hrnjić Alma, who is in related relations with Mr. Tihić and who has been admitted there for a year to gain the experience that can be permanently admitted to that place, and that at that place she was received, instead of or at that place, by a very successful radio man, as they say in this language diplomatically, from local events. Isn't that what such similar reasons in the DKP are, in fact, the reasons for these changes? Aren't personal reasons more important than those criteria presented by the minister, and who are they more important to? You see, this is the area where Parliament probably has the least insight and has the least impact of all the areas of life in BiH. And constitutionally it is so defined and legally, so if you will, so is our business. And here everything happens outside this Parliament, except that we occasionally get one piece of information about foreign policy, in fact, what's called, about the foreign policy situation, something like that, I can't remember exactly what it's called, but basically it means occasionally, it's not even regular but occasionally. And, of course, under such conditions, it is possible to take the shifts of ambassadors without any reason to the public and to change embassies, to abolish, to remove consulates, to send users of the services of these consulates 200, 300 kilometers away. I will not return now to the arguments that went towards Bon: that all these service users will be able to do the same in Frankfurt, that there will be no shortage of people because we will transfer those from Bonn and Stuart to Frankfurt, so they will do more than they do here to get here and all that is rationalization. And of course, all of this needs to be given and used for BiH. I think I've taken this too seriously, and those who were supposed to be reporting are taking this too seriously. All that I would continue to say about this issue, I am afraid that I will cloud the key reasons why this is here and which is why I think that Parliament should, if anything else, be timely informed about some issues. That is why I have also suggested some conclusions and I propose some conclusions and I will ask them when I read them to share with the MPs. In accordance with Article 150. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and following the debate on the decision, and the criteria of rationalisation in the DKP network, I propose conclusions. Number one: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH presidency to review the decisions to shut down the Embassy in Argentina and the Consulate in Bon. By the end of the review process, BiH's foreign ministry will stop all start-up activities. 7 Under two: 2. The BiH presidency and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs will submit the criteria for rationalisation in the DKP network to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly no later than 15 days, and an assessment of the effects. Three: three. The BiH presidency will inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of the changes to the ambassadors and of the shutting down or opening up of new embassies and consulates 30 days before the entry into force of these decisions. Namely, I don't think the constitutional powers of both the Presidency and the Ministry are violated if they inform us. So they can make a decision in accordance with the Constitution, but they need to inform us before it comes into force. And four: four. The presidency and the BiH Foreign Ministry will inform the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at least twice a year on the state of the DKP network. I really apologize if I was too long, I could have been longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14054	Thank you. For those reported in this order: Dear Ambassador Raguž, Izetbegović, Marković, Lozančić, I have written down. If anyone else wants to hear from you, Lijanović. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14055	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Minister, is a very rare opportunity for us MPs to say something about this very important issue and the overall way in which BiH's foreign policy is being run. In the past term, I have been the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of this House and we have had three public discussions on this subject, called on this ministry, I don't know, and I don't see that we have anything from the Commission on the foreign affairs of our home and on this issue and on some other issues. I do not call my colleagues, but I think the minimum role of Parliament is to be controlled and supervised in the overall processes in BiH and we should have the legal and legitimate position of our bodies, that is one minimum. And why is that? Now I will try to explain the far-reaching importance of these decisions and the consequences they may have. 8 So, with all due respect to what Mr. Minister said and the efforts he makes, I believe that the decision on rationalisation relating to the closure of the two embassies and consulates of the ultimate question, not to say, is destructive in the interests of BiH as a country and shows the absence of logic and analysis in these affairs being conducted in the ministry, as well as in strategy and tactics when it comes to the most important bodies of this country. Close the embassy and destination to the only one on an entire continent on which the most Turbulent and most serious changes are taking place globally?- I'm sorry. I don't know what message that is. I'm really wondering what message that is. And justify it by lack of correspondence between destination and centre? Then the one who sends this correspondence, who is capable or incapacitated, does not mean that the problem is solved in this way and at the moment of this global review of the relationship with the super-forces that drive certain Latin American countries to leave this country without official communication and... Another thing, I will not go into details but the question is why... on one of the strongest tourist markets with a tendency to improve the possibility of valorising our tourist, especially religious tourist facilities, that decision is now being made. I'm just asking as a question, so let's give an answer. And I'm not giving any other grades here. So I think that decision is absolutely irrational, politically unwarranted and harmful. I think I've given too much and enough arguments to seriously reconsider that decision. Another thing I would like to say here, and I will not bring it into the context of any other relations and balances to the diplomatic and consular network, either on a national or otherwise basis, when it comes to rationalising the diplomatic and consular network, and you could, believe me, talk to me for two days about how we covered the world on certain continents and areas and priorities. So look here, neither India nor Australia, the whole other continent, so what are we waiting for?- I'm sorry. Here is just another question: What are we waiting for in relation to some other destinations, their effects and effects? Let me just ask that second question. So, I believe that this topic, with all due respect, is what Mr. Novaković has started, and this objectively deserves only... support, one representative approach and the opening of this issue. I believe that this must go through the Foreign Affairs Commission and be run on Parliament's agenda, with adequate information that we will receive from the resolution ministry, Mr Minister and the BiH Presidency to debate this thoroughly, because objectively today we do not have enough entry elements nor at this time are we aware of these information that rational decisions, and I want us to make rational decisions, not emotional, not party, and in this sense I must comment on what the Presidency has done about the replacement of the BiH Ambassadors, I can say, in three extremely important destinations, parallel and synchronised: Brussels, Vienna and the Vatican. This is one of the most dramatic examples of party policy implementation through the BiH presidency institution, without arguments, against procedures, past the deadlines set by the presidency and the foreign ministry, where at the 19th session. On 9 September 2007, the Bureau either did not know or did not know that it could not make minimum decisions without a three-month deadline, with the fact that such emergency situations could only occur if it was a serious disciplinary injury to work or if there was a cooling of diplomatic relations between the two countries and that it wanted to warn the host country. None of these reasons were contained for such decisions, such a character to be made. And it's legitimately the right of the Presidency, and I don't dispute that those decisions are made. But we have legitimate rights as Parliament and representatives of citizens and voters to say under what circumstances these decisions are made. And where can I bring further practice like this? And let me remind you, let's say that the distinguished Miroslav, Professor Dr. Miroslav Palameta, who had nothing to do with any party, who was an ambassador to the Vatican, made a multi-annual effort to come to the realization of the contract between the Holy See and the Vatican, these days on behalf of the Presidency, and congratulations to Mr Komšić – the contract was realised. And that's what this is all about at that point, not talking about a shift in Brussels where at a time when there's really some trench battle going on, are we going to get to this Stabilisation and Association Agreement that's at this point, I think, the greatest priority for this country, is opening up space to be five, six months, until... agretically without an ambassador in this most significant mission. Here's just a few elements, I wouldn't give some... other, other dishes. I would like to join the request to open a serious debate, that the Foreign Affairs Commission prepare us as the committee responsible for this Parliament in cooperation with the Ministry, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency enough information to assess what these decisions, and others, mean for the conduct of foreign policy, for the reputation of this country and for the dignity of all those who need to be in the position of this country. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14056	Thank you. Minister Alkalaj asked to be involved in the debate to explain if you wanted the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14057	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to make some adjustments or supplement some of the explanations that were made here. I am responsibly saying that no other reason was behind this, which was stated. This is my responsibility to you from this place in front of the Parliamentary Assembly, the most important body in our country, and I wish in the future we weren't working to get rid of these theories of conspiracy to someone against someone. So I say, responsibly, I claim no back-up reasons other than those mentioned. Let me just answer a few questions that Reverend Novaković said about the embassy that we don't have. We have announcements and already leased land or a search for 10 lands for the opening of the Catar Embassy, for the opening of the Kuwait Embassy and a request for the Embassy of the United Arab Emirates. These are the three embassies you mentioned. All three have filed a request, and they're already looking at some places where they want to build. We have diplomatic notes sent by them... to BiH to provide them with enough space. As for the diaspora, I had conversations and correspondence and with the diaspora from Bonn, just as you said multiethnic, everyone came, let me say, and the confiscation and ethnic groups and I had a good conversation at the Ministry and we agreed on how and how to overcome or stay in Bona or to open a new destination in Frankfurt, with which they are in principle agreeable, but the opening of a diplomatic consular representation, a general consulate or embassy is a very complex job and requires at least six months to one year to do a solid job. So we don't have to ask for consent to close, we have to open the whole procedure, and it's going, it's a much longer procedure, the consent of the country, etc. As for Argentina, let me tell you that... Argentina uninhabitably, it has a decision by the Presidency on non-resident diplomatic coverage, from Argentina we covered Chile, Peru and Uruguay, and from the United States of Washington we covered Mexico and Brazil. And let me tell you, when we talk about religious tourism, the largest number of people traveling from Mexico, Brazil, are huge delegations, much, much less we have from Argentina, to say, and these countries that are not resident. And when we adopted, why? It's really a shame, I say it's a shame to put an end to that one, but the question is whether we as a country can endure when... we do not have in the region itself in all countries of the region and neighbouring countries of the embassy as Albania, etc. Therefore, here we have now won Montenegro, it is an additional effort and pressure on finance. What was meant by the opening decision and the decision to propose Argentina for closure is that in Washington itself, there is an American State Organization where the headquarters and ambassadors of all the South American states, that is, the states of all, the entire continent of North and South America and Central America. Therefore, everyone, communication from those businesses that are most important and can be done through this organization and that I have been there with my stay and work. About the question is, are we losing money? No, I don't. Look, one of the variants was consular days. I will tell you from my experience: when I was an ambassador to Brussels (the Netherlands has 40,000 of our people, in Bon is 46 thousand), we were only on a consular day, last week on Saturday, covering and meeting all the needs of our citizens. I've been ready to be consular days in Bon four times a month, so every Saturday, which is an advantage for people, they don't have to leave work, they don't have to lose their journals, no matter what those days are held and see each other, whether it's four times necessary, if it takes six times, for the people of Stuart or where they come from and cover you, to say, the needs of our citizens. When you're talking about criteria, they're really, they're always subjective criteria, we don't have some indicators, and whoever prices and estimates them can look at them on both sides, and on the one hand and on the 11 other side, but these are based on experience and some indicators that we've had and talked to other countries, to say, we haven't sucked out of our fingers, so I'd ask that we're serious. What was made a break in that period, you said, we were waiting for an official publication in the Official Journal, and only when it was published in the Official Journal, that's for us to take action in the Ministry. Therefore, and two more of what Ambassador Raguž said, three months does not say for ambassadors anywhere, three months are for civil servants, and we have a regulation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs clearly laid down for state officials, for ambassadors nowhere stands. Now, I'm not getting into the metrics, what you were saying, but I'm talking about that clause itself. It is only for civil servants and the latter that only receiving grams from the EU is not five to six months, it is under the Vedemek document and the EU Protocol for two months, maximum eight weeks, and there has been no reason nor so far that one representative from BiH, from another country, has received an accredited letter, i.e. it has been aggregated for its nomination for more than two months, so there can be a few days up, a few days down. Just so much for these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14058	Thank you. The Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14059	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The agenda was led, not foreign policy, and not appointed by the ambassadors' presidency. The agenda item was the Information on rationalisation in the DKP network. We did not report to any of us for the discussion because we were dissatisfied because last time this session was delayed, because we had no written information from the minister, or the ministry, and there was enough time for such a thing. We didn't get that information today. Respecting that a major shift has been made, I thank the Minister for giving us some of the elements of the streamlining information from the pay phone. But that's not at all what we were looking for. However, given that other topics have been opened, Mr. Chairman, outside of rationalisation, I would like to say to my esteemed colleague Raguž, since he said here that a member of the Croatian people's Presidency Željko Komšić, therefore, is involved, that we are not lying, here the quote was in the function of implementing the party's policy on the shift of these three ambassadors. It is not about any implementation of party policy because of the three newly appointed ambassadors, the two ambassadors from the ranks of the existing diplomats, or civil servants, and one newly appointed ambassador is a member of the SDP. To remind you, the three ambassadors mentioned in the previous call are the newspapers for me that Mr Vasilj is not a member of the HDZ, although he spoke to me differently in his own time, but it is evident that members of the ambassadors from Vienna and Brussels are placed there according to the line of leadership and are close to the leadership of HDZ. 12 So let me get this straight. We already have experience that in the capacity of Deputy Minister, in due time, Mrs Topić or Miss Topić has returned the Ambassador from Paris within 15 days, although the same rule was valid. And then she didn't mind. That's one thing. The second thing is, if the argument that the Stabilisation and Association Treaty doesn't take it that we don't have an ambassador there, maybe this ambassador should have been replaced earlier because we don't have a Stabilisation and Association Treaty long ago. But, naturally, not to lie, it's not the ambassador who brings the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. And in the end, the same goes for pears and apples. That the public knows that Mr. Palemeti has long expired in the Vatican. _________(?) Why was he removed? He ran out of Madnat from the Vatican. He's been relieved. So, to be clear, a new ambassador who is also not from the SDP has been resolved and appointed, although Željko Komšić is also a citizen of this country, and a respected member of the SDP. And I have to say that I'm saying all this because, Mr. Chairman, if you've already wondered, if Mr. Raguž had any of these questions, then he hasn't asked a question for another member of the presidency who's from his ruling coalition, who introduced him, yes, yes. Why didn't he ask the question: Why is the Kuvajćanin appointed ambassador to Kuwait? Why did he not ask the question: Why is the father of the adviser to the presidency appointed as ambassador to Belgrade? Probably because the son of their ruling party's president is an ambassador coalition in Madrid and probably because they are used to naming people from HDZ who are not citizens of the country as ambassadors. I don't mind being appointed black at the time in Japan. But the man was not born in BiH, so he was appointed to Japan. And that's why they don't mind when a Kuvajćanin goes to Kuwait and Dad leaves instead of his son and vice versa. And finally, Mr. Chairman, if we have already come out of the agenda, I propose that Parliament joins the most strongly in the demands that have been made by the Presidency, which is in charge of foreign policy, to condemn the involvement of Vojislav Koštunica in one brutal and primitive way in the country's internal affairs and to support the Presidency in its efforts not to build a bridge on Peljesac in a way that is contrary to the interests of this country and contrary to the elements of international law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14061	Thank you. Obviously, we have a lot of issues here that we're going to talk about, and they're also connected to this subject. I hope that one of the MPs will also conclude that at one of the 13 next sessions we will bring (slowly, please only). I didn't say I wouldn't give it to you. So, you're up for the line, so, Reverend Novaković, we'll take that turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14062	Thank you very much. You know, in the absence of arguments, then try to transfer things to something I haven't said at all. And secondly, the story of the rationalisation of the DKP network and the state of it must mean that we say what it means to replace ambassadors within such a diplomatic-consular network. And thirdly, every word of my own has been supported either by a quote of a decision or by the authority of the Presidency or by the way in which it should be done. And the liquid thing, which is very important here. So we can't dispute here the legitimate right to open these questions. I also asked for further information to open up an argument, Mr. Lagumdžija, and on these issues that you are opening. So, don't tell me that I'm not ready to discuss these issues, or a party that has nothing to do with the party that I belong to, with these appointments, or the previous ones you mentioned, or me personally. So I don't remind you of the cut you made during an alliance that's unremembered by quantity and quality. I didn't tell you that. I could do that. So there are a lot of questions, I suggested we open up and one of the conclusions is that we discuss them. And some questions are quite legitimate because they stem from the way and in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency must respect their own procedures and... when it comes to the resolution because it is the country's interest and the dignity of these institutions but also people, and in that sense, I had to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14063	Thank you. I would warn the honourable MPs to conclude delivery in writing. I have the conclusions with me only from the honourable MP Novaković, so we will put the conclusions to the vote only in writing. Dear Ambassador Novaković has a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14064	Thank you very much. You see, after the Minister was presented, I didn't regain the impression that the criteria were used to shut down the General Consulate in Bona. So if they're not crucial economics, here's to forgetting the economics, if there's nothing else but these, and I've drawn conclusions here that they're not enough to resolve, then I don't know how 14 came to be resolved, or how this decision to shut down happened. So there's no other than the ones that were said here, and the ones that were said here couldn't possibly bring them because now I put them in that context and we saw that they didn't. So it's impossible, it's impossible to get out of these criteria the need to shut down this consulate. A team before the economic effects could be calculated now. If we're going to have six or eight consular days there, how much it'll cost us, how much savings we'll have, and we'll probably see what we've saved from it all. Is that this million and 400 or 700 or I don't know how much. So it's very easy to do that. Secondly, if we have needs for all of this, and we obviously have a Bon, which we're shutting down. Then we open up in Frankfurt completely new where the exact same people are likely to be transferred or one number transferred from Bonn, etc. I'm left with, indeed, the sincerest, vaguest why we're shutting down when it's meant to be there. So, which is why we're going to shut down if we need to, and open up somewhere else we don't have. I wouldn't want to comment on other things. I quote, so I quote one provision, one provision... The Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, so I prescribed it, literally quoted it. So, I wasn't talking about what we have an obligation, what we don't have, but I was literally quoting it, so. So, 'the state of appointment may make subsequent changes to the seat of the consulate, its rank or its consular area, only with the consent of the state of reception.' So that's what I was quoting, so I didn't comment because I don't think we should comment on this, that it's all clear, and I was just asking if we had that consent because I didn't get it. So here I am in all these papers here about what I have I haven't been able to get it to have. That's why I asked if we had any. If we have it, one situation; if we don't have it, another, a completely different situation. Of course, about these convictions, about the diplomatic language of a member of the Bureau, etc., I wouldn't talk about it today, because it's not a topic, but I'd be very happy if we open this issue up so we can talk about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14065	Thank you. So we have one replica, one business intervention. First business intervention, then replica. Here you are, dear Ambassador Lagumdžija
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14066	Mr. Chairman, you said you only had Mr. Novaković's written proposal. I've made a very clear suggestion he was so I'm asking you here to make a statement as well. So it is up to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide written information on the rationalisation of the DKP network, in line with the previous conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly on this subject, and on issues, possibly raised from today's debate, so that we can discuss this properly. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14067	Thank you. I just warned you to deliver it in writing. At the end of the debate, we'll vote on it. So, I didn't say they wouldn't vote on it. Your Honour, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14068	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, I have a replica. Of course, I have applied for a regular presentation on this agenda point but I have a replica of Mr Lagumdžija's presentation on several sentences that this parliament strongly condemns the presentation of Serbian Prime Minister Mr Koštunica. I fully agree that this parliament should be condemned, but not Mr Koštunica, but Mr Komšić. Where is the right of a member of the Bureau, regardless of what political options it comes from, to make such statements in public without the agreed platform of all three members of the Presidency? Not only are those statements directed towards Mr Koštunica but it is a threat, especially in a dictionary that has never been heard before, especially when it comes to two neighbouring and friendly countries. But since Mr. Lagumdžija came out with that story out of this agenda, I'm replicating that part, and I'm saying that I have several municipalities to support the launch here of a full debate on the resignation of members of the Presidency when it comes to statements by some other high-ranking officials and officials of neighbouring states. Well, here's even that bridge around Peljesac, and we can put it into debate, but it's really incomprehensible that a man like that is irresponsible, I'd say, quite rudely, with the challenge of so much animosity in the Republika Srpska and the Serbian people, and that he is absolutely unaware of what Mr. Koštunica said and what it is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14069	Let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14070	We must not accept here, I apologize, the flat-rate self-proclaims, which is why I am asking of course that this parliament strongly condemns the statement of the member, or the chairman of the BiH presidency, because, in my opinion, it has acted on its own initiative and has done great damage to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14071	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14072	The foreign ministry obviously did an analysis. I don't know why it was a problem to offer that analysis to this Parliament and the public. So, the list of embassies, consulates, the number of employees, how much per one DKP place it costs BiH and its budget, what are..., what are the reasons for us to have these DKPs there, so politically, economically, the presence of our diaspora, relations with the country, its intentions, or whether it already has an open representation, whether it intends to open it, etc. so that we can have some good information here too and possibly think about further rationalization or opening up and spreading the network. So, I don't think it's any problem for a few pages to do that, and I'm proposing to the minister, and I'm asking him to do it anyway after this session and inform the public about it. As for the Consulate in Bon, we do have pressure from there from our diaspora to prevent any of these representations from being closed by these consulates in Germany. So, the state and its instruments, and part of that, and the DKP network, within the DKP network, are consulars, serve to provide a fast, cheap service that is close to the citizens and I think it should be considered whether to close the Consulate in Bon and whether it can be replaced by some consular days. My colleague Lagumdžija spoke before me, so he's already started some of the topics that we intend to run. So, statements by President Koštunica, meddling in BiH's internal affairs and this move by Croatia, ignoring BiH's need to go out to the open sea, I think they deserve a reaction from this parliament, some declaration about it and I support Mr Lagumdžija's discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14073	I thank and apologize for the technical problems we have. Namely, we have a direct transmission of BHT but now it's a log entry, so we have, what's heard, these are these technical problems. I hope we can regulate that further. Dear Member Marković is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14074	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I believe that the place and opportunity in this home to discuss the state and situation of the DKP BiH in the world, and I think that rationalisation in this system is one of the minor problems... which was touched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a previous period but I also consider as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission that it was appropriate that at least the Foreign Affairs Commission should receive information on this rationalisation, if for no other reason, because MPs in this House vote and adopt the annual budget from which all 17 diplomatic and consular representations are funded, and from that aspect we have, I guess, so much right to get information about what is going on in this area. In addition, I think that today we are having a difficult time carrying out a quality discussion from which we would come to good and quality conclusions, possibly a suggestion to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this area because we have not received written material. I appreciate what Minister Alkalaj said, but I think that's one part of the information, there's a need for information from the Presidency and, of course, one basic information that should go first through the Foreign Affairs Commission, and then of course it gets a place and time in this home. I would like to say that on the basis of the information that I have and from the situations that I have had when I visit certain destinations, my personal observation that we as a state have significant problems in our representations both material and economic, technical organisation, as well as personal and interpersonal relations in these representations, and I think that it deserves, if not in Parliament, and then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is seriously entertained by this issue because we have destinations, i.e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e., e., the BiH Embassy, in which happens to take more rights and powers from the ambassador himself or the situation that occurred a few days ago. In this context, I ask the question and ask the answer of Minister Alkalaj. When the BiH delegation was on an official visit to the ruski Duma, it happened that the ambassador to Moscow took the right and the freedom to react and to answer the questions asked to the members of the delegation. I think it is inappropriate and inappropriate and I ask Mr Alkalaj if he will implement what is called the Ministry, gathering information or checking the behaviour of Abmasador Halilović in Moscow since 17 October this year at the Russian Federation's Duma. And I'm asking, of course, a written answer to that question. So, what have you come to, and I believe that we will have a report on the Foreign Affairs Commission that the Commission will discuss and draw its conclusions. I believe that this parliament should seriously conduct another serious and fundamental debate, just because I think that the practice of setting up certain ambassadors as well as other officials in diplomatic and consular representations was not good, and that the optimal decision not to speak, and the fact that next year, a significant number of ambassadors and diplomats in the world stands out, so the presidency will be in a position to appoint new ones. I believe that this should lead to a different practice, so take care of quality, experience and at all about the personal dignity and dignity of people who go to BiH's representations and thus represent both this country and the peoples who live in this country. And finally I want to ask Minister Alkalaj another question: Will you send a written and public apology, as the first man bhh. diplomacy, the Republic of Serbia due to the recent exit of Mr Komšić's presidency and because of the communication he had towards the prime minister, for him, one foreign country, because if this does not happen, we will have a situation to, say, allow this member of the presidency in some future period of time to allow himself to, for example, ask Nikola Serkozi some questions from his private and family life, because he has recently been asked by many journalists. So, in order to cut 18 of us across that practice, I think that the act of a member of the presidency has created a very unpleasant situation for both this country and the people who live in it, and I think it's appropriate that as the first man, bh. send a public and written apology to the Republic of Serbia. I would not comment on these findings that have previously been made here, but I would just say that such actions, therefore politicians and officials who have the status of diplomats within the country, leave an impression in our own and in the general public that, unfortunately, we have in this country that certain significant state functions come and people who are unable to rise above the mentality and vocabulary of their comrades and their streets when they come to such significant places. Thank you. And let me just say that I expect your oral response to this second question, and first it can be later.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14075	Thank you. I remind the MPs that we have a second item on the agenda so that these issues... and the debate on the second. Now we have two replicas reported. Dear Ambassador Genjac, then Novaković, Alajbegović. First, business intervention. Dear Ambassador Novaković has a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14076	The chairman, a member of the 69th and a member of the 73rd, speaks about how the debate is being held, and I ask that what is not the subject of the agenda today, therefore, and that is the debate which has now begun, which was imposed by Mr Lagumdžija, not to be the subject of conclusion, not to be the subject of any conclusions, and I have no objection to the debate, I said I would be happy to open this debate when someone proposes to come to the agenda. And since I've already taken the floor, I apologize, beware, as a conjecturer, please, there is a proposal here also by Mr. Raguž to give all this to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Look, I'd love to, so when we get these conclusions to discuss it a little bit, because it's not disputed that the Commission should deal with this. Finally, the Commission could take part without this debate, but then I would insist on voting on this conclusion, number 1, which I have proposed, and the other conclusions may be the subject of a debate at the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it looks at the whole issue and delivers its proposal for conclusions to the next session of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14077	Thank you. I must say that no Rules of Procedure have been broken, that I am trying to direct MPs to talk about the agenda point, that the conclusion I received from Mr Lagumdžija's honourable MP is not out of the agenda and says "the Council of Ministers and 19 Foreign Ministry is in charge of delivering written information on the rationalisation of the DKP network of BiH, in line with the earlier conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly... issues raised from today's debate". Please, therefore, do not warn in advance of anything that has not yet come to the agenda. The second thing, we haven't discussed the conclusions yet, so the conclusions you suggested will be the subject when we talk about these conclusions. We're still in discussion and they have replicas. Dear Ambassador Genjac and Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14078	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I welcome fellow counterpart Novaković's initiative to demystify this issue and make it content of the parliamentary debate. Of course, I also understand the need of counterpart Novaković to seek a more convincing argument, but I think that counterpart Novaković should also avoid... making it easy to make his argument, e.g. the argument that one reason is the rationalisation of the network is the abolition of consular representations and the connection of one worker with the relatives' relations with Mr Tihić. I know Mr. Tihić and his relationship to the DKP network and foreign policy in a completely different light, and I don't think it should be done that way, at least, because man is not present here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14079	Dear Ambassador Alajbjegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14080	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say about this visit to the representatives of our Parliament to the Russian Federation that I feel, as a member, as a representative who was a member of that delegation, a few sentences that are crucial to me regarding that visit. What is important is that the visit of our delegation of Parliament to the state Duma of the Russian Federation, at the invitation of the Committee of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, was content and very successful and that we had...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14081	Do you have a special replica of that? That's not the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14082	I have a replica. This is the introduction to the replica, Mr. Živković. I'm very rarely reporting, and I think this is very important. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14083	I wouldn't want to take your word for it. Please repeat within 3 minutes to the part that applies.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14084	Thank you. I usually speak very quickly, and I hope what I just said doesn't get in those three minutes. So this was the first meeting of parliamentarians in the history of parliamentaryism of these two countries since BiH and the Russian Federation were independent and independent states. BiH parliamentarians had a number of meetings at a very high level: with Deputy President of the State Duma, with the chairman of the Committee on International Relations of the Dume, with the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Federation Council, so that the Russian side has actually provided meetings of BiH parliamentarians with almost all structures at the highest levels of Russian authorities dealing with foreign policy. At all these meetings, the conversations were very warm, open, friendly, with very high respect and respect. At all these meetings, among all the participants, a very high degree of mutual understanding of the different strategic foreign policy directions of our two countries has been manifested, means BiH with a tendency to become a member of the EU and NATO Pact and Russia which has a different strategic goal but a common goal, which is mutually quality bilateral co-operation. So, as for the presentation of this commission in the Russian Federation and our delegation, Mr. Slavko Matić, the president of our delegation and our ambassador to the Russian Federation, Mr. Halilović, was not at all appointed as chairman. He was a member of our delegation, but he really maximumed our chairman, Mr. Slavko Matić, Mrs. Milica Marković and I as members of that delegation. He did at one point in an unpleasant, unpleasant, very short situation that he actually took... a completely inadequate note of importance against the fact that it was, first of all, a friendly visit that should pave the way for our co-operation with quality, positive signs of co-operation, and not so negatively reacting, and I think his reaction was extremely adequate. I'd like to ask Mr. Slavko Matić if he wants to supplement me and if he wants someone to say yes. Thank you very much. I hope my three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14085	Thank you. We have received this report and, following what you have been saying, we will forward this report to all MPs, so if this commission is appointed, on the agenda, there is no need for us not to consider it at Parliament. However, I would like to warn you that the following who have come forward for the discussion: honourable MP Lozančić, Dokić, Lijanović, Okolić, Belkić, Jovičić, Matić and Kadrić in this order. Dear Deputy Lozančić, first. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14086	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I... by this point of the agenda must begin again in one way to show compassion to the distinguished Minister Alkalaj because he is today defending what is not his to defend. And I have to say, probably after my discussion, he'll be in an awkward position, but he doesn't take me personally because he took the role of defending what he shouldn't defend. Many have asked the question today why this important topic (for as soon as it is on the agenda of our Parliament, surely it is an important topic), we have no written information. We have written, but I have to agree that we have no written information, so I will read that information, and that information has been delivered to us by the one responsible, not the resolution minister, because the resolution minister is not leading foreign policy. The resolution minister has not made a decision on the closure of the embassy and consular representation, the resolution minister does not replace the embassies, etc. And so on, that I don't speak any further. So these decisions are made by the constitutional competent authority and it is called the BiH presidency, and it is in exclusive jurisdiction. What is normally asked as a question to all of us: What can happen after today’s debate, will the Presidency listen to what we might conclude today about their constitutional powers? I'm not sure he will, but here I leave you to judge, because this information we received from the BiH Presidency of the Presidency of the Presidency says, "The Bureau has asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for information on the forward as well as other issues of importance for rationalisation in the DKP network," and then they say, "As the information requested is still being prepared at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that the chairman of the Presidency and the foreign minister have travelled to New York for the General Assembly's meeting, we ask that this item be removed from the agenda." This is a finished quote. This is a letter from the BiH Presidency, the constitutional competent authority for decision-making on the rationalisation of the... network. And what am I getting out of this? The Bureau has made this decision, and only after this decision requires some information from... That's what it says in this memo from the Bureau. It means it wasn't run by any criteria. I didn't want to answer and replicate some respected colleagues, but I'm going to discuss their discussions through the debate. I understand Mr. Lagumdžija, I understand him, the style of working in this parallel, here he is again, and I'm sorry I'm not going to tell him. It is his obligation to protect his party comrades, no matter where they are, whether they were in the Presidency, in Parliament, in diplomatic and consular representations, I respect and respect it. I don't know what bothers him if someone else does the same thing. For me, it is a correct relationship with your party friends, party associates, etc. And in that sense, I understand his replicas that are not at all replicas of Mr. Raguž's exposure or Mr. Novaković's exposure. I must say that the argument Mr. Novaković made in explaining this initiative is more than enough. 22 However, a question arises as to what may be the consequences. So, on irrational decisions, it's impossible to make a rational decision. And this decision is obviously irrational. Unfortunately, it seems to me that it is not the only irrational decision of the BiH presidency, because I must say, here, and from this letter here that I have read you have heard that we could not get an answer, because the chairman of the Presidency, Mr Komšić, and the foreign minister, the respected Alkalaj, were going to New York at the time. You know what they went to New York? To represent BiH in front of the UN General Assembly. And do you know if they had the presidency platform for this BiH stand-up in New York? You've heard from the papers as likely as I have. No, they're not. I don't even know what they were going to do. And I don't know who they represented there. And I don't know if it was rational for the other two members of the presidency who disagreed with the chairman, so I don't know what they were doing with them. This is what I'm talking about rationalizing. I wish we were so rational about everything. Take a look at the list of official travels, and ours here but also at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency, so you will see how many resistances there are for accessing rationalization. When it comes to correspondence between our diplomatic-consular offices and those bosses here in the country, and the bosses are the normal BiH Presidency, in one part, and the Foreign Ministry, I would like that correspondence, which exists at least, not to give disinformation, that the public in BiH is not being deceived, although I know that it is not a matter of rationalisation, that it is not an ambassador's shift theme, it deserves special consideration, but I will mention it inconsistencies as a demonstration of the inconsistency of those who should have brought us this information, to deliver it here. So it is said that "the prominent BiH ambassador to Austria has been removed because she did not provide information to the Presidency about the incident that took place at the US Embassy in Vienna." And be careful, it's a really big failure, if that's the case, because our authorised ambassador is obliged to report to his bosses. But neither the Honorable Minister nor the heads of our ambassador have said that this information is being delivered, which is the way to deliver that information. They didn't say that this information was always delivered to the Foreign Ministry through which our ambassadors communicate with the Presidency. You don't think any ambassador can call the president of the state on the phone? I didn't hear that happen. That's why there's a foreign ministry as a relationship. And I happened to be here, because I asked, I got information that the information was delivered to the Foreign Ministry on the same day. So we're cheating on the public. Here, obviously, in making this decision on the rationalization of the diplomatic consular network, there are no, I must say, no arguments. So there are no criteria, which we can see from the letter that we received from the Secretariat of the Presidency. Look, all we can do is invite the Presidency to agree on a shift that has not been recorded in the ambassador's diplomatic practice on the closure of our diplomatic and consular representations in the world, and to agree on BiH's introduction to the outside. Let them agree on important issues for all citizens of this country. It's easy to agree on the shift of two or three ambassadors. It's their jurisdiction and I have to, I just can accept it when they make it, then it's their decision, but don't let a 23-member presidency, I don't know on whose behalf, represent itself. Because they have the authority to represent BiH as the Presidency and... as the Presidency, not as free shooters, and not as party officials. And don't let them question us, don't question our position. We've had enough isolation. We're isolated enough... that someone else contributed to us. Don't isolate us from our neighbors yet. There's no need, so to speak, to speak up, to cook with our neighbors. Respectfully, let the Presidency take a stand on any subject, including the bridge and the statements of other officials from other countries, and let them take a stand and bring it out to the public. I will always support it, come forward free individuals will never support it, because I don't think it will bring good to this country or position both in the region and in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14087	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14088	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will be very brief. In fact, I would say to Mr. Alkalaj that he wasn't convincing by explaining here the measures he had taken. Now, from a respected colleague, Lozančić, I heard he wasn't even responsible for this, and that someone else was supposed to explain it. And I would therefore support all those initiatives that talk about that it is finally necessary for this Parliament to get one comprehensive information on the complete structure of the DKP network, on the effects they achieve in all the places where they exist and then on this basis one analysis is made to make it more rational in the future and which is even more important and more effective. I personally cannot accept the fact that an ambassador from the United States is in any way capable of being another ambassador in other countries, especially if these are such large countries on another continent. It seems to me that this embassy is doing its job as it should to have more work than I know how many other embassies. So that fact also says that things aren't done properly. But since the issue of these ambassadors' shifts has already been raised, I must say that the member of the presidency who signed it has once again shown that he is not acknowledging anything but his street mentality and his will. The same member of the Bureau signed a month before he made the decision and a decision on how to appoint and remove ambassadors. And he didn't break the law he signed for a month afterwards. I'm not going to interpret what's in there right now. Really, changing an ambassador to Brussels doesn't matter his name or name? We are, unfortunately, in our general division, always tied to either the party or the nation. To exchange ambassadors in Brussels at such an important moment, by the way, an ambassador who, here from my experience I speak, and I had a communication with Brisel and in this capacity present and former, the ambassador most professionally doing his job or amongst the most professional, it is unfortunate to point out in the first place, to all destinations where I had the opportunity to be, and that 24 without any explanation? In this political situation, I would not like to comment on this initiative for statements by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but to come in one whole context and time and with authentic statements here but of course with statements made by our member of the Presidency that I, because of my home education, am not able to call that name to deserve to call them. But when we open up that whole debate, then maybe I'll find some milder expression that I can publicly pronounce for what he said. Thank you very much. And, by the way, here's what we PDP want in the back, but they keep pushing us forward, which is why I'm here because there were comments among you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14089	Watch your neck. Dear Ambassador Lijanović is next, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14090	Dear Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests! My colleagues and colleagues have talked about these decisions that have already been made. I want to say something that might contribute to some decisions that will be made in the next period. We are not accidentally the poorest country in Europe, and it is certainly due to our diplomatic network that not only this year but also a longer period of time is essentially working only on imports into this country and not on exports from this country. This direction should also be rapidly changed to the criteria that Mr. Minister was talking about installing an important element, which is to build a strong economic diplomacy that will promote our producers, our products in other countries and the deficits that we have today from 20 million marks each day to try to reduce it and it grows this year from day to day. While we are sitting here today, the balance of the BiH account tonight will be 20 million marks less for the citizens of BiH. One of the management rules that the minister can be of assistance says: saving is not earned. So the state can make good money by investing. And I advise that this rule begins to apply. We need to invest additionally in the diplomatic network, this parliament needs to approve additional funds but for the part that will promote our economy, promote our products in order to slow down this damage we have. We ratified the CEFTA Agreement in this House, ratified the Implementation Act which allowed certain safeguard measures but unfortunately... in the House of Peoples did not get the necessary majority and will not reach its application, and the CEFTA Agreement with the countries involved will continue to do even more damage to BiH because our economy is not prepared for one such match and I would suggest that special attention in the area of the diplomatic network should be directed towards the countries signatories of the CEFTA Agreement, that this should be included in the measures to be prepared by the Council of Ministers on the basis of the conclusions adopted by this House, in order to reduce the deficit with these countries, in order to reduce the damage to our economies that CEFTA is likely to do at least a little less. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14091	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14092	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, distinguished fellow MPs, esteemed members of the Council of Ministers, respected representatives of international institutions, means of information and NGOs, dear guests, I took this information when I received or heard it better, I thought we would get one answer in writing about what Mr. Novaković had set up as a request, then about possible stories and correspondence processes of information, and I didn't consider anything so dramatic or bad at all. But not getting written information on two occasions, then a man suspects that something is wrong, even if it's okay. It seems to me that we should have received information in written form for this Parliament and cannot possibly stand the qualification that the information is missing because it is mostly strictly verifiable. That doesn't apply to me. Whom of us fellow MPs shall accept it, it shall not apply to me. I first question the degree of secrecy, whether it is fully consistent with the degree and name of secrecy entirely. There may be certain segments from the work of the Ministry or from the area that we are talking about today, but information as information cannot not come to this Parliament because this area is strictly pov. And that's why I'm expressing my suspicion. Then, I'm afraid I may be wrong, but maybe I am, because missing this information may be ignoring in a certain sense this Parliament. And I can also say that we are mostly guilty if it is ignoring, I am building on it, because we are often inclined to criticise the executive authority, or not enough informing this Parliament, and when we need some information to get or ask for it, then we are partying and watching who we need to get it from, and we are being outvoted. I can understand party colleagues that when information is received that the parties represent it and in a particular segment support it or do not support it, protect it or not protect it, etc. But I can't understand, it's just that it's about my closest, that we're not agreed to get that information and once put that theme on the sun and let's clear up all this talk about this subject that's being imposed, and here's today's debate on a bigger and bigger scale. At the beginning of these discussions it was likely that there was a particular misunderstanding here, that it was a little bit of this, a little bit of the one, that it was nothing so terrible. However, the time as it moves away and as our discussions are repeated, we see that all new and new segments of the problems in these segments of the DKP are emerging. However, the DKP network has mirrored this country in the world, as is the mirror of every other country. And you can think about us if we have an incident in embassies or consulates, and yet what about us in a positive sense is thought of if it's all beautifully arranged etc. 26 And I can say that we have encountered truly beautiful certain receptions with our ambassadors and in the capacity of their detour work they have also worked, and here I see that there have been certain contradictions. Therefore, I think that today it is necessary for our public to know, citizens, and the means of information to be adequate and quality to pass on, and of course we, too, support these certain conclusions that require that this information be completed, and everything they think is strictly verifiable, there is a cure, it is known that through the degree of secrecy and everything is possible to be available, and to whom everything is not. There is also the possibility that Parliament's session will be closed if necessary but I do not see that it is still such a condition as to be in this form. If we come to this topic that must be closed Parliament, then I think the situation is really worse than what we are now facing through these discussions. And that's why I don't see any reason not to deliver one piece of information that would end the pain. And in that information, let what they think is best and whoever disagrees with the information will seek counterarguments and will refute that information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14093	Thank you. The second vice-chairman, honourable MEP Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14094	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will try to be very brief and stick to the agenda. Therefore, the motives of the initiator and the proponent of this agenda point and the argument of mention later in discussions and replicas etc. In some ways, it tells me that today we are only dealing with segments of a very important area. So we focus on rationalization, motives, etc. And we're talking about the DKP network. And mostly, we are all talking about specific cases for which we are in some way political, party or otherwise directly connected. So we went in a partial one, we went to a partial problem in this extremely important area. So we did not practically discuss the country's objectives and priorities of foreign policy. So it's a document that also gives rise to the creation of the DKP, so according to these goals and priorities. In my opinion, the key thing for this Parliament should be the following: - to trust in the Presidency that brings such a document under the Constitution of this country, - to trust in the Council of Ministers, that is, the executive authority that implements such a policy. In order to have that, we must perform our control function. We need to have reports, we need to know what this is about. And I think that today, without full insight into the existing state of the DKP network, without full insight into the objectives and priorities of the foreign policy that this country is leading, we are going to have a hard time getting out of these, so to speak, concrete partial 27 cases that don't give us a picture of the overall state of the DKP network and what we get. In my opinion, the foreign policy of this country is the area in which we must and need and there is no reason why we do not share the same interest both the peoples and parties and entities etc. If one area has the assumption that citizens of this country can spark general interest, that's foreign policy. Let us go in that direction and help to get such a document that will affirm the interests of these citizens and then we will be able to react easily as an institution, both to statements and to phenomena, etc. We're responding as individuals today. Here's to try to get a consensus on any replica here, or any initiative on someone's statements. Otherwise, you, Mr. Dokić, experience Mr. Komšić's statement from me and vice versa or Mr. Koštunica. So we have to try to spark this country's policy, the foreign policy of this country, because it is created on the basis of general interest. And that's an opportunity. I'm really asking you to go that way. There's a number of other things. The financial opportunities of this country? How much of this country has the power to open representations? Do we need 10 here or 15 here? I'm asking you nicely to go in that direction with further discussion, of course of some of these proposals, there are conclusions going in this direction, to get some full information, but I'm saying that we get an insight into the overall situation in this area, starting with what the priorities and objectives of foreign policy are to the instruments that we're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14095	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14096	The Honorable Chairman, therefore, if you remember, at the 2nd session of this House of Representatives, I asked a parliamentary question at the time, but this is the essence of this overall debate today on this agenda point. That's when I asked for all the data to be delivered, no matter how anyone gets it, but here, I'm going to avoid that national connotation, so I set an example and it's nationalization and it's an abuse and it's the nepotism of those people who did it before and it's not important period. That Mom works in Bulgaria, a son at the age of 23 in Germany, an aunt in London, all from the same family. And I asked then what kind of reference they have that they were all born for diplomacy. There, that family is diplomatic. It can't be called anything else. So, I got, I have to admit, one answer from the Ministry and I was partially satisfied, because at the time I asked to be delivered to me by a national structure both at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and at the DKP Network. Let's just talk straight and honest here and really respect each other then, it's all here in the focus of national. But of course, when we resolve it, then we'll put the state's interest first. We can't put the state's interest in the first plan if we happen to have these cases so that man can self-initiately determine what's going to happen to someone and whether he's going to be the party member of this party or one, or because he's not a member of his political party, etc. etc. So, I totally agree with all the previous 28 colleagues who said that we went into one today, I'd say, maybe it's too harsh an expression of an adventurous story about some subject without any data that would shed light on this whole problem, and it's an apparent problem with the DKP network of our representative offices, so of course, including the Ministry here, because we know and follow in the press. But why should we as the most responsible people in this country follow in the press whether the minister and his deputy work well together? So there are countless problems and controversys. Of course, this story must also be crucial for BiH about economic relations. But we need to have complete information whether or not our DKP is representing, here's the consulate, the embassy, organized a fair some in a country that will benefit us, where our 50 representatives, 100 or not will go. So, it's not just political stuff here, it's more economical for this country, because wherever we go – and here I was for the first time abroad as a parliamentarian, and let me tell you right now, I didn't go to the expense of this country, the OSCE paid for it – people are asking where our money is. They don't care who's doing the reform here. They say where the money is that we gave in from Germany to BiH, and the numbers are huge. Well, I guess that should be answered by the Foreign Ministry, not by me as an MP. But we were told that question. So, countless things are here and I, Mr. Chairman, join these conclusions to put this as a special point that will have complete information that we will not wait for next year, but really prepare the competent institutions. If it's foreign policy, and it is in the presidency's jurisdiction, then really not to have the minister here clean up so he can defend something out there that's not prepared. So I'm not even suggesting, and I'm of course getting into that story that others aren't answering, but what are we going to conclude today if we don't have any information about what's going on at any embassy, at any consulate? To be clear, we don't know what's going on in this ministry. And there was a shift there. And we want to see what's going on with the Ambasada in Argentina. I want to, of course, but there was a will here both by the minister and the deputy, and I don't know who did it either, and I don't know what he was doing there. So there's no coordination. How, then, will the foreign policy of this country be represented before other countries and institutions if we do not agree here? So it's got to be one thing if we need a agenda point, to stay all day, but let's work it out once. So today I don't think we're gonna do anything if we talk about the information coming in. If she's top secret, this character or that character, we don't have her! And we will self-initiatively bring our own visions as we see it. I repeat, remember, 12 sessions have passed to get answers to questions that were scheduled to be delivered within 60 days. And what did I get? I didn't get anything. And I want to get whose aunt, aunt, uncle, here's my dad's son, because he has to be called my mom's son, I don't even know who my dad is, who works and where he works, who's gonna be ambassador. Let me see who Mom is, people! And who her son is there, what are the references that he has to be? Here I am, if I've hired a relative in any BiH institution, I'm asking you to relieve me immediately. But our officials, we heard today, it's important to go to diplomacy. And it is important. And what will contribute to this country, no one asks or has information. That's the information that needs to be here on the table. Thank you very much. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14097	We have one replica. Dear Ambassador Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14098	Dear colleagues, I have to replicate because the last few discussions I feel like I'm not going to say it on purpose and I'm going to say it by chance dissipating the essence of the agenda point. So we have now begun to deal with the situation in the DKP network, i.e. the situation, and we have begun to deal with the relations of ministers and deputies, and so on with BiH's foreign policy, etc. I don't mind each of my colleagues suggesting a agenda point as he thinks his name should be. I suggested a point as I thought it should be called and it's very narrowly focused, so measures of rationalization, criteria, decisions made, effects, please. I couldn't talk about streamlining the network in England when neither the consulate nor the embassy was abolished in England. But I could talk about Bon, Argentina and Pretoria because that's where it is. Because only there is. So, please, I have focused my discussion on the criteria relating to specific cases, and I have nothing to do with Argentina, Mr. Belkić, but nothing at all, believe me. With Pretoria, especially. So we have suggestions for conclusions. I, as a proposer of the agenda point, allow – so, the chairman, I may be in violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I do not believe – therefore, I allow myself, as a proponent of this agenda point, to comment on the conclusions as well. I think it would be a good idea if all the debates were completed to decide on the fate of the conclusion. And of course, there has been a conclusion, which has nothing to do with this agenda point – Mr Lagumdžija. Of course, I hope he doesn't get put on the agenda, because then we'll have to open up a debate about him, and then we'll go into another agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14099	Take it easy, please. Let me just say that it's all going in order, that we open up the debate and that everyone has the right to express their opinion. It is impossible to limit this broadly defined agenda point to only one decision concerning Bon and I think it is a tolerance debate and that we should not particularly shorten it and that when the debate on this is over, everyone has the right to speak their mind, but as a College, we will propose a way in which these conclusions will be put to the vote. Dear Ambassador Belkić had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14100	Mr. Novaković. So it wasn't really my intention to diversify the discussion, but I found a very natural link to the country's foreign policy objectives and priorities with rationalization, i.e. by creating a diplomatic and consular network. So in order to discuss whether an embassy in a country is needed, we need to know 30 whether the country is within some of the priorities and objectives set by that foreign policy. Nothing else, Mr. Novaković. I absolutely don't think I'm getting a divorce.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14101	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Matić is next. Here you go. So Matić, Kadrić, Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14102	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers! Dear counterpart Raguž was absolutely right when he claimed that for this debate, the Foreign Affairs Committee should have considered all of this, suggested its vision, views, possible measures. Unfortunately, the Foreign Affairs Committee has not been able to do so for a simple reason, which, as has been ignored by this respected House of Representatives by those competent institutions that needed to supply the input data, the information needed to discuss it at all, has not been delivered to us. I will tell you that in the spring of one of the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, offered by the letter of the Association of Croatian Immigrants from Argentina, we discussed this letter, which then instructed them to have information that they wanted to go towards the closure of the BiH Embassy in Argentina. We have requested information from the Foreign Ministry whether it is true, what are the criteria for such a thing and whether it will eventually be true. The answer was not received, and 4.9.7, when everything was already happening and the BiH Embassy was shut down in Argentina and South Africa and the Bona Consulate, by letter and conclusions from our Foreign Affairs Committee session, we asked the BiH Presidency for an explanation which the criteria were conducted in making this decision. Of course we didn't get the answer. For a reminder, I will say that MP Zorić's question was about shutting down the Embassy in Argentina, Mr. Novaković for the Consulate in Bon, similar questions from Jovičić, and my last parliamentary question at the previous session was about the shifts of three ambassadors from the Croatian people. Everything was directed towards the Presidency. None of these questions, as far as I know, have been delivered so far. In this way, we were not in a position to consider this issue at the Foreign Affairs Committee at all, because we had no input for such a thing. I would like to comment on these decisions in a way that I believe that the decision to shut down embassies, first of all, in Argentina, and the Consulate in Bon, is negative for BiH, that it is not in the direction of rationalisation. The question arises, if rationalisation is, why have some other destinations not been shut down as well. Why aren't there more than just these or why aren't the other two, not these. I don't see any reason, and I'm going to say that the reason that at least here we heard about the 31st Embassy in Argentina is that it's possible to realise it in Washington right now. I think that for those people who will need such a service is both offensive and hypocritical, because those distances from Argentina, Chile, Bolivia, Colombia to Washington are measured in thousands of kilometers and while these people go back to Washington and return to their country for that time and for that money they could come to BiH. There is no reason that there is no diplomatic-consular representation in either South America or, as far as I know, in the countries of Central America. Although it may not be direct, and I also believe that the shifts took place after Mr Novaković proposed in the procedure this kind of agenda point and finally managed to come into the agenda, and I hold the shifts to be very harmful to BiH. Is it by chance that three ambassadors from the Croatian people have been replaced, since no clear and real arguments are offered, it is not an accident for me. It is done for a simple reason that it is obvious that, unfortunately, besides the Bosniak and Serbian people, the Croatian people do not have a member of the presidency in such a presidency to chase him. He's got it, and he's gone, which is why we've had a shift like this. I'm not going to suggest new conclusions, and I'm going to support some of the existing conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14103	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14104	I thank you, Chairman. I will do this briefly – and on the trail of these ideas and initiatives to find this issue on the Commission's agenda for foreign affairs – only to suggest one conclusion. 'It is up to the Foreign Affairs Commission to prepare, in co-operation with the Foreign Ministry and the BiH Presidency, in accordance with Article 42. The Rules of Procedure provide full information on the conduct of foreign policy and on the rationalisation of the BiH DKP network. After that information, this issue will be included in one of the next meetings of the House of Representatives." So, let me add something that has been added here when it comes to the rates of individual statesmen. So, it wouldn't be bad, it wouldn't be too bad to send Koštunica a message to solve, it would be good to send a message from here to solve Kosovo's, not Bosnian-Herzegovina problems. So he has a lot of problems ahead of him and the Serbian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14105	Thank you. And last reportedly, we have a distinguished MP, Križanović. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, today I have had a lot of incentives for replication but I have somehow abstained by trying to give time to end this point. But I really won't be replicating anyone except my colleague Matić. It is truly inappropriate in Parliament, the State Parliament, to talk about such a serious institution as the BiH Presidency and to say that this Presidency does not have a Croatian member besides the Constitution. I wouldn't really talk about it any further, except to realize that today's whole debate reflects a miserable political situation in BiH. First of all, we, take it, lost two hours to have, to be careful, to finally have the result as the main conclusion of ours to resupply the information that we're going to talk about. It's an eclectic indicator of the ignoring of this home, which I keep talking about. The State Parliament is ignored. It is also ignored because of our behaviour in which I include the statement of fellow Matić. You see, we were opening the question today. Of course, when we don't have information, then the topic is spreading. Instead of getting the normal information we asked for two and a half or three months ago, which clearly says: give us information on the rationalisation in the DKP network of BiH, which is about these decisions, which were the criteria for their decision-making, the effects of the decisions made and the further steps in this regard, we are getting an oral presentation here today, which we have heard is a state secret. The nebulosis is that and that's why we have such a wide story that includes... It is quite right that those who have forgotten what the topic is, so we are talking about the foreign policy of BiH, we are talking about the internal matter of the functioning of the ministry itself, and we are not talking about what counterpart Novaković asked us to provide information on the specific issues that have been asked. So it's not just rationalising the abolition of these three destinations in the DKP network of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world. I guess there's something else that needs to be rationalized in the work of this DKP of our network. So, I will join some of these conclusions, but I would like to ask that one conclusion that I will now propose be accepted, which is: 'The House of Representatives is expressing dissatisfaction with the lack of timely information on the agenda point, as defined here, 'the rationalisation, the decisions made, the criteria for their decision-making, the effects of the decisions made, and the further steps in this area'.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14107	According to who? 33
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14108	What? Satisfaction
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14109	Please, let them talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14110	BiH institutions that were to supply adequate information.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14111	Please, that conclusion in writing to deliver to us. Dear Ambassador Raguž. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14112	Well, if I may, I'd like to draw my own conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14113	I wanted to suggest about the conclusions that we're going to discuss...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14114	One sentence. She's tied to this grade Mr. Križanović gave. I wouldn't want to replicate it directly, but I think it's useful. Here, if you'll call it a replica, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14116	So I can't as one of the participants in the debate accept that we've spent two hours alone here today. I find this to have been a useful debate and as an introduction to an even more serious debate based on these conclusions that are proposed. And I don't accept it, and I've made a concrete conclusion on the trail of others directly related to the agenda point, which means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Presidency are reviewing and withdrawing decisions related to the execution of embassies because so many arguments have been given here that these are decisions that are harmful. If you end the destination on one continent, with so many residents and so many potential connections, then I really don't know what the arguments are. So we can select conclusions and only bring them to this topic. They can accept this as going out and looking for one complete piece of information within a real and reasonable time frame. These conclusions themselves are useful and justifying these two hours. Thank you very much. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14117	Thank you. Since there are no more of those who have applied for the debate, allow me to conclude that we have the conclusions of Parliamentarian Novaković, Raguž, Lagumdžija (two species), Kadrić and I have not yet received from Parliamentarian Križanović, that the College, on the basis of what he was saying and the honourable MP Kadrić, believes that the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Representative's House is tasked with considering, together with the proposals for conclusions and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the proposed conclusions from today's debate on rationalisation in the DKP network and proposes them at the next session of the House. That's one proposal that goes ahead of the Kolegijum. And the second proposal is that we vote on each of these conclusions individually, and I must warn you that some conclusions match. The conclusion of the 1st honourable MP, Novaković, and this conclusion of the 1st honourable Member of Raguž, are identical, except to add the South African Republic. That this conclusion of the 2nd Honored Member of Raguž is identical with the conclusion that the honourable Ambassador Lagumdžija has delivered, so that he can surely agree, I can read to you one and the other. And we have some conclusions coming out of today's agenda, and in that case, the College will vote that these conclusions are not put to the vote. And here's, as I promised, the debate about this proposal of ours on how we're going to vote for the conclusions I'm opening. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14118	You see, I'm going to try to comment very briefly on the position of the College. For me, it is not a controversial proposal from Mr. Kadrić in the section that speaks of the need to make full information and deliver. He said, however, at one of the next sessions, which is according to the presidency's relationship to this issue probably a distant future. But what is controversial for me, precisely because it is a distant, probably distant future, is disputed to consider through that information a decision on the rationalisation that has already been made. Because I don't think those two can do it together, it doesn't make sense. Because watch out, the rationalization decision is concrete and has been made. It is the realisation of that decision, so measures are being implemented, instructions have been given to cancel the lease in Bona, etc. etc. So, this proposal for me is possible in combination... with some of our views or conclusion that the Presidency is reviewing that decision, and that the activities on its implementation stop to this full information. So that's a possible solution and for me it's acceptable if we define it that way. I mean, that includes about these proposals by Mr. Raguž and Mr. Lagumdžija, when it comes to defining the situation, so it would be good to limit this deadline in Mr. Kadrić's proposal and say, I don't know, over the next 60 days, say, no later than 60 days. Or in the next, I don't know, so let's define it anyway, not one of the next sessions. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14119	Thank you. If there is no one else to apply for the debate, I conclude the debate and ask to vote, first of all, on a proposal from the Kolegijum, which reads: "The Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives is tasked to discuss the proposed conclusions of today's discussion on the rationalisation of the DKP network and propose them at the next House session." Not to explain what we suggested. I think that all the conclusions go to our commission that will classify them, see what the powers of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers and the Presidency are. Please prepare to vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14120	Is that a college proposal or is that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14121	This is a proposal from the College that I read. That's what Mr. Kadrić's conclusions are about, too, on this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14122	So, the College has its own suggestion of conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14124	Which is ahead of all these conclusions, it is first voted on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14125	Yeah. Because it unites them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14126	I've already said this proposal is not a sublimation of other proposals. So for me, he's undeniable if he's going to stop the activity. Here you go, please, so I'm in favour of supporting this proposal if that means stopping activities at the shut-down of consulates and embassies. If that's what that means. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14127	We in the College are not sure that the Parliamentary Assembly can order the Presidency to do so. I think it's out of our jurisdiction but, to be sure, we suggested, 16 is a session. I don't think that's a long term, in 14 days nothing will happen, that they propose what the Parliamentary Assembly can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14128	Perhaps the minister will help me not to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14129	Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 19 (14 from the Federation of BiH, five from RS) There are enough and general and entity majority. The conclusion has been adopted. And, I'd like the House to make a statement about whether we should take a lunch break now, since it's also agreed with the Secretary General of the Council of Europe to attend with him for lunch; by 2:00 a.m. to take a break and at 2:00 a.m. to start working. Thank you. Comrades and fellow MPs, please proceed with the debate. The next item of the session is: Ad.2. Proposal for a SDP MP's Club for the Reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH by Mr Sven Alkalaj, Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14132	Dear Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14133	Please, before you start inserting all the cards that are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14134	May I? Dear Mr. Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, here, although the SDP's request today has a very precise explanation for the MPs, let me point out on behalf of the SDP Club that our proposal today is not aimed at Mr. Sven Alkalaj's personality, so we would personally not like to point out his personality. And not disputing – namely, now that I try to explain a little – Mr. Alkalaj's right to his citizenship in Republika Srpska, as we do not dispute the right, the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14135	You said it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14136	... (well, apologize for the lapusuze)... nor any citizen of BiH who has more citizenship, we only think that Mr Alkalaj has made a statement in the election of the foreign minister as a member of the group of others, or as a Jevrejin, and in 38 of the acquisition of the citizenship of the Republic of Croatia as a Hrvat, that he has led this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH astray, in error with the intention of ensuring full support in the election of the appointed office as he did when we chose him. So that is one of the basic reasons why we believe that Mr. Alkalaj should have one moral urge, a moral need, that is, to resign from this duty for moral reasons. I have to say here precisely because Mr. Alkalaj spoke in one of his public statements, in fact, gave himself the right to explain our initiative, so he said that these were the aspirations or pretenses of the Social Democratic Party to see one of its members at the position of the foreign minister, that this is not true at all. In fact, we have no idea to dispute the right of the ruling coalition to appoint its ministers, and thus to appoint a foreign minister from the ranks of the parties that make up the ruling coalition. And just in the end, here I am trying to be quite brief, saving your time and your time, that this time we will not, although in the previous debate, there have been even some hints in this regard, in general open the story of diplomatic isolation in which BiH is presently, about many of the affairs that rock the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that have come public. We think that this really requires a more serious debate or that the time for such a story is someone else, not today. And here we hope that this initiative of ours will also open up the story of Mr Alkalaj's move, which is using his constitutional right that we do not dispute, in fact, has led Parliament to verify him for the position of foreign minister, thinking that he is one of the nationalities, and it turns out that he is, in fact, both when and how this is morally unacceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14137	Thank you. Is there anyone else with this in front of the promoter that would like to explain this request? I call on the others, who wants to participate in the debate to apply for a hearing? Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14138	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, personally, are experiencing this request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH at this time justified, not only for the reasons mentioned in the SDP Club initiative but for a number of other reasons produced in these eight months of work by the Council of Ministers in this composition. The results of this Council of Ministers are unfortunately visible at every step in this country, and this Council of Ministers only took eight months to stick us pretty tightly to the bottom of Europe. Reform processes not only have not been launched and improved, but there are more and more cases of reform process recovery and backward. We are witnessing that this Council of Ministers in the opening speech of the chairman, Mr Špirić, has drawn very 39 ambitious and, I would say, at that moment, encouraging goals. If eight months is long enough to carry out an analysis of these goals, then these goals are another fine story for the public, and our reality today is more than gloomy. In just a few things, we don't have on the agenda any refom laws without which BiH is where it is, at the bottom of Europe. In this period, we have gambled a chance to target a ship called BiH at least towards Europe, we have witnessed that there have been rare issues in this house where there has been no clear national and party omen and even fewer issues were present with a sign of interest for BiH and BiH citizens. This Council of Ministers has fully devalued the function of this home in this period, and the ministers have taken the view instead of going to this home and going to their party leaders who have become fully involved in the role of the legislative authority and in such an environment, the question is whether this house is too high at this time. I am personally convinced that the position and position of BiH and its citizens today is far more difficult than eight months ago and therefore the majority of the parliamentary majority and the Council of Ministers as the competent executive body of this home and this country. I don't need to remind you that Minister Alkalaj is also a member of this Council of Ministers, with special particular weight. When it comes to a concrete initiative for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, personified by the name of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, I feel the same as a reminder of the moral character and act of Sven Alkalaj, which is the result of his dual citizenship. The fact of taking the dual citizenship of Minister Alkalaj is not interpreted as a legal and legal sin, but as a question of his personal, moral character. True, the high officials of this country, including Minister Alkalaj, should be under a stricter grip of x-ray surveillance, but the question on the heart is also how many high officials and we in this home would have good results and findings on this basis. Personally, therefore, I do not see the question of the dual citizenship of Minister Alkalaj as a great sin, but, to be honest, the darkness is being thrown into the eyes and the information presented to the public these days and that deserves the reaction and the manifestation of this home. I understand there's a lot of smoke in there, but there's obviously a fire. I personally, therefore, will not contribute and participate in any hack of anyone, and in this case, if it is Minister Alkalaj, because I have seen on my back many times how difficult it is, but I will not be truly indolent to the fire, because fire can also be as dangerous as a hack. In this case, I repeat, I do not consider dual citizenship as an act of dual citizenship to be the sin of Minister Alkalaj. If there are other sins, which are presented in public these days, then indeed in that second part, I will give my opinion through the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14139	... here may not have been expected to give me a business intervention in favour of the Council of Ministers or Ministers, but for the sake of correctness we should not open a debate in the Rules of Procedure, this is also a new situation for us, especially for a minister who has not been in this position before. The Rules of Procedure say that, following the arguments given by the club 40, Professor Malić gave that you, under Article 146(2), should give the right to state your position and the Council of Ministers (I suppose in this case the minister), before the general debate is opened. So, the minister can say, I don't want to use that right, I'm going to let you conduct a general debate but the correctness of it, since the Council of Ministers did not use its right to answer in writing, then we are now entering the next stage of the application of the Rules of Procedure which practically gives the Council of Ministers the opportunity to manifest itself before the general debate is opened. Well, only correctness works, I think you should offer it. The other thing is whether the minister will do something like that or wait for what I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14140	I thank the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija. During the debate on the previous point, the minister well showed that he knew the procedure in this home and that he could ask for a word when he felt the need to address it and at any moment when he felt the need he would get the word. The word has a respected representative, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I first thought I'd really suggest what Mr. Lagumdžija was talking about. So, to use article 145 here and simply mean that someone before the Council of Ministers submits this view of the Council of Ministers on this initiative. Now it's obvious that we have no one but the minister today. It is now probably talking about the position of the Council of Ministers towards this initiative and they probably did not consider it as serious enough as the previous one, which the SDS Club launched several months ago, also did not consider it serious enough and did not feel obliged to respond in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to that initiative, regardless of what the consequences would be. Now, as already as it is, I just want to state the club's position that the reasons why we once proposed as a club the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers - I have to say they didn't stop. In fact, there were indeed a lot of activities that were evaluated in RS, as a matter of fact, as incorrect. There's no problem here, Minister. Here is the problem of the system in which the current Council of Ministers works. The problem here is that you have statements that speak about the very relations in the Council of Ministers. So I'm not going from the requirements, or the reasons Mr Lagumdžija spoke of, I'm talking about the need for reconstruction and I don't think the reconstruction is just, it shouldn't be a reconstruction right now just at this level or up to this level, it should be much wider. Please, I'll only read to you from July 3rd, 2007 the president's statement. To be honest, I don't see the point of talking to the minister, because I've already talked to him about things he's done before. I was hoping he'd turn seriously to foreign policy but it's obvious there's no point in working, building a common position. So, please, in this kind of relationship, so it's a published statement. So in this kind of relationship, it's not realistic to expect the system to function. But I'm not getting into it, be careful, that's 41 parliamentary majority matters. Of course, I had to comment on it from the opposition's point of view, not to say from the opposition's position. So, gentlemen, we will support the request for the resolution of Minister Alkalaj for the reasons mentioned earlier which have not stopped, but also the new ones that happened afterwards and which relate to the activities of the Ministerial Council and are related to the activities of the Council of Ministers. We hope that if the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is passed through the resolution of one minister, we will open the process of the overall reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14142	Thank you. First Vice-President, Mr. Lozančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14143	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, distinguished guests, I have no intention or need to be the attorney of the honourable minister, but I must say that the debate that opened up the SDP Club's initiative, which is very specific, does not mention at all what was presented as an argument. So now we're talking about whether we're satisfied with foreign policy, whether we're satisfied with the state of foreign policy, whether we're this, whether we're that, etc. Which, I must say, has nothing to do with this initiative. I do not dispute anyone's right to submit such an initiative, although I would be much happier if we could submit the initiative and call for the responsibility of those responsible for the conduct of foreign policy. That's not the minister. So, foreign policy management is constitutionally responsible for someone else, and it's not correct, regardless of who it was, here's not meant to be a member of the party that I belong to, or by anything, here's why I have no reason to be subjective, but I don't think it's correct, in this way, to say the least, to demean a person, even though he's a respected representative, which I especially appreciate, and I believe she thinks that's not the target of an attack on a person. However, all the discussions that are going on are at stake. So we have an argument offered, which is offered in this initiative, we do not dispute the right for anyone else to submit any other initiative, but let us stick to what is offered. And I suggest we approach the vote on this proposal, and then we'll see what the situation is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14144	Thank you. If there are no more reports for the hearing... Dear Ambassador Ajanović. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14145	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start... like this. I have three identities. I'm a Muslim, Bošnjak and Evropljanin. Unfortunately, two are denying me, two are denying me. They don't deny me that I'm Bošnjak, but sometimes they deny me that I'm not Muslim enough. As I see it, Europe is denying me that I am a Evropljanin at all, because I am not going to join the EU, not even giving me a passport to go to the EU. And the reasons, if someone has two citizenships or two identities, can't be for the replacement of such a man, especially in conditions like we have in BiH, where more than half of the government has more than two passports. So, that's the first one. Insisting on that, it is primarily immoral, for then many ministers should neither be appointed nor replaced. That's one thing. It's another thing. If there were all the honey and milk in BiH to be replaced by Mr. Alkalaj, I would vote right away. But to hit the weakest point between us – I don't think, I apologize to Mr. Alkalaj, let him not think that this is a weak point in his knowledge and title and everything else – then I say again that it is neither moral nor justifiable. So, to conclude, I think this is a joke that needs to end and end today, that Parliament rejects this initiative. That's how I feel it's supposed to end, and in particular I have the right to say this, because at the time of the Alliance, when I was deputy minister, journalists and the media were hitting on me talking nonsense where I'm having a dispute with the press and today, and I think I finished it today. I think I finished it today, because our journalists, no matter how high-quality they are, have not yet reached the point of what should be, and that means that we have to check the other side before the nonsense is published. What they're saying is that at this point in BiH, foreign policy is at its lowest level, there are no relevant indicators at all to prove it. It's an eye and it's said like this, because I think or the other one thinks. And let me finish, please. I suggest that this initiative be rejected and that we continue to do it because, in this difficult situation, we all come together and do certain things that will go better for us to do what we need, and not about what I said or, I don't say, this wine with one or the one that didn't go with the woman, or that he didn't go with the woman, and today, when we had the opening session, the man who's the secretary in the Council of Europe says he's open to leading his wife. Well, Buš isn't going anywhere without his wife. And no one's bothered by that. 43 Therefore, I don’t think it is necessary to defend Mr. Alkalaj, nor would I want it to be understood... that in certain matters I defend Alkalaj, but I defend certain principles that we should accept as principle. If someone's wrong and there's something proven to do, then you have to say that you didn't do this and you didn't do this, and I didn't hear or I said or there's that or that. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14146	Thank you. We have two replicas so far: Ambassador Bešlagić, MP Malić; then registered for discussion: MP Halilović and Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14147	Let me just say about these allegations by Mr. Ajanović. The SDP did not insist on the quality of the work, but insisted on a certain principle that we have set in fact. When Mr. Sven Alkalaj was appointed minister, he had others. The moment he already had Croatian citizenship, he did not say that. And that's what this is about. So it's about this moral principle and our moral requirement. About the other demands, we don't want, we're talking. If there's ever a debate about... then we'll go with the argument. ... Therefore, no moment of SDP, the SDP MPs' club, went to what you were talking about, and we are honored that Sven Alkalaj was left behind. However, when he pleaded and later confirmed that he was and what he was concerned with, and so, he deceived this parliament, we felt only because we needed to plead. And, on the other hand, we felt it was very important for the Council of Ministers to be seen on these matters. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers did not manifest itself. I think then the only way to get here after this debate is to open a vote. So, I support the vote and let Parliament plead for or against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14148	Dear Messenger Malić first and she is the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14149	I really just wanted to say one sentence. I don't think I'd allow myself the situation to participate, I wouldn't allow myself to be involved in a pregnancy, especially if it would offend a person or an identity or a person of any kind. But I must say, the basic motive was that there was no dual citizenship, and I even needed to stress it when I explained it, but the fact that we didn't have full information at the moment of our definition in selecting Mr. Alkalaj as Foreign Minister. We really resent him for keeping this information secret, and we don't blame him for having the right to have and to have two citizenships. And please nice, just for the record, I just called to say, it's not like it's just a moral act Wednesday, and it's up to most of this Parliament to judge. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14150	We have another replica. Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14151	Very short, perhaps more attempts at clarification. I think it is very incorrect and incorrect to place an equal sign between Croatian citizenship and belonging to the Croatian people. It's been said several times here. The fact that someone has received or filed a request for Croatian citizenship and perhaps even received a passport later on does not mean that he became a member of the Croatian people. There is one part of BiH's Bošnjak who have Croatian citizenship and have not stopped being Bošnjak or become Hrvat. There are people in the line of others from BiH who have gained Croatian citizenship, but have not become Hrvat in that act. And don't argue, but you said that even in an explanation and you, Mr. Bešlagić, just a moment ago, in such a way that Mr. Minister became Minister of the Order of others, so he got Croatian citizenship and he is no longer of the order of others.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14152	Thank you. Minister Alkalaj asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14153	I had no intention, however, because I see that it has begun here – especially by the SDP, which is known as one multi, to say, the party, started counting blood cells, so in that sense as a member of one, to say, old Sarajevo families, not some newly composed of 40th and some, I allow myself to say that I have reason to doubt the good intentions of the SDP and the incorrect claims, first of all, covering myself with this moral act of so-called – that there are problems in the MIP. I think that's the point of the problem, and I'm going to say it in public here, and there's going to be a chance that we're going to be reading each other. By taking office as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I decided really knowing the work and knowing the matter (I was ambassador for some 13 years, therefore, I know the well and the system and everything) I went into a real reconstruction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have passed a law that requires a new law that will soon be in the process before you when the Presidency and the Council of Ministers pass. So, one law that we haven't had since '92, which we've worked with so far, is a modern law that needs to be compatible with the laws that we need to face tomorrow on our way to the EU, which will have a modern system, which will require certain demands for workers. But it's probably one of the reasons. The second is, we started one... a stricter campaign towards quality, according to work discipline and, and Bog forbid, to say that we are doing business audits, internal audits... of financial operations and the adoption of other certain acts. And that's where we came up with very significant failures. I'll let you know and there'll be illegalities. He's been working on them for two months now. Therefore, gentlemen, you'll have something to hear. And I think these are the basic reasons for some of them who are in the MIP, who are out of the MIP, that these things are trying, by changing mine, etc., to stop this process. This process can't be stopped, whether I'm in charge or not. However, you will have, gentlemen, that report when SIPA delivers 45 at the latest in a month, and we will discuss with which grounds we are talking about so-called. a moral one-person or we want to prevent some processes from becoming such an institution, such a ministry with which it will be admired in the world – that during the General Assembly in New York, I have had about 30 bilateral meetings with my fellow ministers who do not exactly accept meetings at such meetings, that I have conducted 26 bilateral visits, that we participated in 15 conferences, which in the country, which abroad, that we were organisers, carriers and chairman of many activities, all of this in the eight months. That is already indicated in a report on the Council of Ministers, which you will likely consider. Therefore, I think it is a deliberate campaign that goes through certain media and you have witnessed a particular campaign of people who do not know what foreign affairs are and through media such as "60 minutes" and similar and through their internal informants steal documents in an unauthorized way and deliver them to these media. You had a chance to see the originals they probably have the right to see last night, they're transparent. However, these documents have been stolen and so, I can say, no one has asked permission to exclude them. So these are serious things, and I think this is one thought-out campaign coming here just to stop those processes that... So, I wouldn't talk about the problems at the MIP, I'd talk about the problems that we're going to solve, and they're trying this way, so on. masking into morals and others, so that we don't play and that we're not children, because they try to cover up, but the process is unsustainable. The locomotive is moving forward and it will all come out and I'll be glad to see you see this report in front of you tomorrow, so we'll also remember this vote and we can say, I'm proud to say, this ministry is going forward and this immigration is building a better image of BiH. So much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14154	I thank the minister. The following came to the discussion, Reverend Halilovć. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14155	Very short. I was more inspired by Honorable MP Ajanović on this short discussion by this finding that we in fact have half in the Council of Ministers, if I understand the ministers, who have another passport in addition to Bosnian. If this is true, and most likely true, because it is a serious man and a serious claim, then we do not have to be surprised that the situation in BiH is what it is. We will have the situation in BiH as it is, we will have the coalition as we have, as long as we have the Council of Ministers. It would make sense to me, and I think it would be patriotic and human to have our officials wear the passport of the state they represent when we travel around the world. I think from that period we have one experience, I'm sorry to mention it here right now, we have a situation with Mr. Alkalaj's colleague, Šaćirbegović, who has 46 problems with the extradition. I could now list a few other names of senior officials who have moved to neighbouring countries to avoid responsibility because they have just worn two passports, or have two citizenships. Do not deny people the right to have, to exercise the right to two citizenships, I will remind this Parliament... that this Parliament is denying more than 500,000 citizens of the right to citizenship of this state, which is called BiH, who did not leave this country because they had nothing to eat but left, they fled to save the living head and we for months, that is, here this problem has been spinning here in the House for years and we cannot solve this problem. What I would think, what I think is one of the possible solutions is that we have the same principle for Alkalaj. And we raise around the story when Dodik goes to Belgrade, and we don't raise the story when our ministers in the Council of Ministers support building a bridge on Peljesac, and we listen to ministers from Croatia who are against building a bridge on Peljesac. All I'm saying is that we try to get to the same principles. Because finally, I think that we here in BiH will very easily, even though there are more potential differences here, rather than together, find the fastest possible solution when Belgrade and Zagreb are – I speak Belgrade and Zagreb, thinking of two neighbouring countries – when they stop interfering with the internal affairs of BiH. And finally, they can continue to interfere as much as they want, if anyone has here to listen to them. If they have a partner here who will listen to them and who will implement their policy, then we'll have, then we'll be in trouble, and then we'll be in a state where we are and then we'll have a situation that we can't agree on a single question and if we don't have it, then the situation will be better. It would be logical for me to, say, the high representative, the last decisions of the High Representative, the coalition partners to agree, not to go to Zagreb, Belgrade in their opinion. It would be correct if the coalition agreed on what to do in a situation like this. And what I would suggest as a conclusion is that this parliament adopts a conclusion... to oblige all state officials to use the BiH state passport. But let citizenship be settled according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14156	Thank you. The next one was registered for discussion by the honourable MP Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14157	I thank you, Chairman. I'll do it for a while. So, according to this proposal, the proponent points out, among other things,: 'We believe that this Minister Alkalaj has deceived the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public by falsely representing his national commitment, 47 that he has pleaded in BiH as a member of one and in the Republic of Croatia of another nationality.' So this is about difficult qualifications, and I think it's a direct attack on a man named Sven Alkalaj. So here he is qualified as a man who is prone to deception and lies and, therefore, I propose to Mr. Alkalaj, whom I respect, to provide judicial protection from these qualifications.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14158	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. The following is registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14159	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't mean to answer. I thought it would be better for me and for those who unfortunately asked me to answer. There seems to be a very brutal replacement of thesis here. I don't believe anyone here is naive enough not to see it. I repeat once again, in our explanation it is clear as daytime: second paragraph and reason. There's no connection here to any dual citizenship or anything. Please, and do not honor us anywhere in any of our sentences, there is no problem in our explanation that someone has dual citizenship. At the end of the season, you can say this, and my colleague Halid Genjac can correct me if I'm wrong, and he ran that committee when we were listening to the candidates. But I don't remember him writing the data there, I don't remember, maybe it did, but, well, I don't remember him writing the data about how many citizenships you have, the demands for citizenship, the green cards, the duldungs, or I don't know what. That didn't say there. It was only there that you wrote what nationality you were. Now, it wouldn't be a problem if we were from the Council of Ministers or from the Ministers, anyone, informed of what the public was looking for as soon as all this started. But unfortunately, the only information we have and which has not been denied has been a statement from the interior ministry of the neighbouring country which confirmed that our minister was admitted to Croatian citizenship on the basis of Article 16. Law on the basis of membership of a Croatian people who do not have residence in the Republic of Croatia. So, be careful, it wouldn't even be a problem if our minister got citizenship as a worthy citizen, as a Nijemac, as Hans Ditrih Genšer, no such problem. The problem is that at the moment our parliamentary commission examined the questionnaires that everyone had filled out under moral, material, criminal and any other responsibility, it was said there that the man was a member of the Jewish people, in our category a legislative member of the order of others, and that in fact at that moment in the neighbouring country he had citizenship on account of being a member of another people, also a constituent bh. 48 So that's what this is about, nothing else. And all other complete replacements are thesis. Let's say we got a response from the Council of Ministers or from the Minister -- an incorrect statement from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia -- is a final story. That's not true. There's no problem. We are withdrawing and we believe and then we are asking that, in fact, the diplomatic pathway be referred to the strictest regret of the Ministry of Interior of Croatia, because it has led us to Parliament to talk about it in this way. So that's all that's going on, and that's what this is about. I'm saying this because I'm the president, Mr. Minister, of that many parties. I have the privilege of being party president, as well as my colleague Halilović and Dolić, who we are also party presidents and we are sitting here in Parliament, which is why as party president, I use the privilege of being a member of Parliament. The statement that it started with the count of blood cells by SDP is the most useless lie for which you, not to bear responsibility, Bog forbid, but you will live with that statement and we with you, who have managed to tell us that. Niko one counted the blood cells to any of you, least of all from the SDP, and you never got that in Parliament. Niko one respected people for having more identity, no one respects it, on the contrary, and it doesn't stand anywhere in our demands. It is only in our request that you cannot go to Parliament with one questionnaire, under full moral and material responsibility, and then prove that you have lied. It can't. You today by accepting that the condition remains as it is, you no longer speak we have finished our work, we, you have enough mathematics, you will end it all with this mathematics. At the same time, you will say something about morality and everything that has long stopped living in BiH's political life, but it is no longer a problem for the SDP or our multiethnicity. Unfortunately, we also heard from the minister today that there are other things here in the background. We are prepared to discuss this background in Parliament, openly, with information that, even with the establishment of a parliamentary commission, why not, to form a parliamentary commission to help the minister clear the situation if needed. If he doesn't need it, there's no reason. He has our full support to clear up the situation to the end. Professor Malić said, and I consciously repeat that, we will not talk about where our foreign policy is today, we will not talk about the state of the DKP, we will not talk about the state of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will not talk about affairs, we will not talk about the defensive diplomatic, we will not talk about scandals, we will not talk about everything we have said, we will not talk about. Let me just focus on one thing - the deception of Parliament. However, we are required to do so. If you want, we're ready to talk about it. There's no problem, I'd be happy if you want, even the thematic session can be, whatever you want. But the minister here says, "I've brought a law that hasn't been since '92. I quote, "I brought one law," in front of that pay phone, colleague Alkalaj, "I brought one law," and then, "about doing foreign affairs." True, after you said, I quote, 'which will be in the process'. You do not make laws, you do not make laws, you will never bring laws, no one in this land will bring them. This land is neither a kingdom nor a flight nor it will be. This country is a country in which laws will be passed in this House, and a minister who is able to say, when he brings it along a little, a little upset, that he passed a '92 law, which has been going on since '92. The morons did it so now you decided to pass the law. I don't know, if they hear you at home, in a party, what will they tell you, that you had to pass one law. 49 You also said that you were auditing, auditing, and that SIPA has been working for two months. I'm very sorry you didn't say that earlier to get the support of this House. I, Mr. Chairman, will formulate the conclusion in writing, suggest the conclusion. So, the SDP supports that each individual, every institution, is working to shed light on all dishonest affairs, and especially at the foreign ministry, when the minister has now put it on the agenda. I suggest the conclusion that the minister, who lives with us, would explain that he will inform us something... I propose a conclusion as an MP: 'Investment and judicial institutions of BiH are in charge of making information within a month on the procedures being conducted and the findings relating to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Executive Workers'. To help the minister get the support of this parliament, both the SIPA and the Prosecutor's Office and everyone there end what he's doing, because the minister shouldn't be left without Parliament's support if he goes into such a deal with the Librarians and I don't know who else. Also, it is said here that it wants to prevent the process. We are as SDP accused here by the minister of preventing the process of this country having real diplomacy. I don't want to be rude so I can say something to the minister that he deserves, which he says as old Sarajlija, but to accuse us of preventing the processes of good diplomacy, good diplomatic images of BiH, so I think, it really went too far. Professor Malić consciously says that there is only one thing we want to talk about, nothing else, and then you accuse us of destroying diplomacy. And the answer is that he met a man with 30 colleagues. Let the Minister tell us, one day, the information when since he came to this country – be careful, I speak clearly, Minister, you know what I'm saying – in an official visit to you as the Minister of a country from the Contact Group or the PIC or you went there for an official visit, interstate? List them as many as there were, not as many people you've met, what you've spoken to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil and Vietnam, I really don't know or think something spectacular is important for this House. If you were there to meet 30 people, quiet, then I don't think you have any reason to brag too much about it. We can also talk about it, we can discuss it, but you should then give yourself an answer: how many foreign ministers have come to an official official visit to you as a minister here and how many such official visits you have been invited to and left in the last year from the Ministers of Members of the Contact Group... once again I say to the PIC. Let me finish. We do not support any minister in the Council of Ministers, we do not support this coalition, it is not disputed. We've even avoided showing off to anyone from the point of view of qualifications and the like. We only considered it, and once again I repeat what was said, the SDP does not claim to bring down any minister in order for someone of ours to come to that place. Bog forbid. We just think that you should help yourself, too, and the minister himself won't go any further. What they're saying is, it's not a mother who gambled, I'm not talking about Šaćirbeg, it's because he took it out. Don't pull out any more, you'll go far. Here, I'm ready for every debate about procedure, about content, about diplomacy. I insist within a month that Parliament gets information about everything, about everything from the SIPA and the 50 Prosecution and we give full support for it. So I'm going to write this in writing, not all of it, just discussion, just conclusion, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14160	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I am closing the debate and I want to read Article 147. The Rules of Procedure, which says '(1) After the debate is concluded, the motion on mistrust shall be put to the vote. (2) If the proposal is not adopted, other initiatives related to this proposal may be voted on." So your initiative, or conclusion, or whatever you call it, will happen if it votes or does not vote, of course. Let's go. So, no, no. You write, and we'll vote now. It is put to the vote of the SDP BiH MPs' proposal for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers through the replacement of Mr Sven Alkalaj, foreign minister at the Council of Ministers of BiH. Please prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14161	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14162	We're in the voting phase. If it's necessary now?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14163	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14164	Here you are, dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14165	I will focus more on the Rules of Procedure, unrelated to a concrete initiative and a specific case. The SDP club, in line with the Rules of Procedure and referring to Article 143, submitted this initiative. Article 143, among other things, speaks of the mistrust of the Council of Ministers or the need for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. So either the Council of Ministers' mistrust or the need for reconstruction. The explanation specifically referred to the need for reconstruction. I have before me a Council of Ministers Act that says, among other things, that someone can't be a minister, so he says that... if the chairman of the Council of Ministers resigns, that means that the Council of Ministers resigned as a whole. So someone stops being a minister if the chairman of the Council of Ministers resigns - which is not the case. Article 13. The Council of Ministers' Law says the BiH presidency can propose 51 shifts to the Council of Ministers if the Parliamentary Assembly votes mistrust to the chairman. And in that case, someone chaind up to be a minister. Article 14 says ministers and deputies can resign without reason; therefore, someone with his resignation can stop being a minister. And Article 15, which says the chairman of the Council of Ministers can initiate a procedure for the replacement of ministers, or Deputy Minister, if, of course, the Parliamentary Assembly makes a decision, or confirms. I'm asking the question now, again, with specific but general issues. Tomorrow we can find ourselves in a position that eventually this Parliamentary Assembly initiates a shift or reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, so it focuses on someone else, in accordance with which member... The Council of Ministers can carry out, possibly, a vote of mistrust, etc. In my opinion, in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Law on the Council of Ministers, and referring to the Constitution of BiH, the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers, should be shown about this initiative so that this Parliamentary Assembly may decide something. Unfortunately for us or fortunately, however anyone wants to interpret it, we don't have it here. I don't think there are any conditions for us to plead the way you suggested. I think that we can plead on this initiative of the SDP Parliament Club but not that we should replace any minister, any minister, because in accordance with the Council of Ministers Act, so again, by referring to the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, I don't think we have the conditions for that. I would pray that if there is a need – I also have a dilemma, we can again, I say, meet in front of a similar situation, possibly some other request – that the competent institutions here, possibly, the Secretariat give us a legal interpretation of the motion for a vote that you put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14166	I would like to thank Ambassador Hadžiahemtović. I understand her concern about this, but I want to mention a few things. First of all, we had already interpreted the Rules of Procedure in the way that the SDS Club's initiative was related to this and then it was no problem to end this agenda point in this way. We in the College believe that we should continue to treat the Rules of Procedure in this way and we will put, regardless of your warning for breach of the Rules of Procedure, on the vote of this SDP Members' Club. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! “For” 16, “against” 14. The BiH Federation MP is seven, which is an insufficient entity majority. We didn't achieve consent in the College. I call upon the House to plead in the second round. Everyone's voting. The votes "against" shall be counted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 15, "against" 16, "sustained" one. 52 Since there is no general majority, this proposal has not passed. We don't have a general majority. Someone changed their mind in the meantime. [[Common discussion]] Does anyone have any objections to the vote? If there are no objections to the vote, we move on to the next one. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14174	...is for consultation on the proposed conclusions and let me mention that our conclusions are acceptable to us. The club has before it proposals for the conclusions of Mr. Sefer Halilović and Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, with one note. Mr. Sefer Halilović suggested: "All BiH officials are obliged to use the BiH state passport on official trips." Let me just mention that this "binding" does not stand in our position, bearing in mind the legitimate right to dual citizenship, equally, and all that stems from the agreement that BiH signed on dual citizenship. So we cannot oblige someone not to benefit from citizenship, or another country's passport, and in this sense we appreciate that it would be better to recommend that all BiH officials use the BiH state passport on official trips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14175	Thank you. Does Ambassador Halilović accept this amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14176	I really appreciate that the esteemed colleague Azra is speaking and I think that... I understand that matter enough, but I think this replacement is unacceptable for the following reasons. " BiH officials are obliged to use exclusively the BiH state passport on official travel," therefore only in the segment. Those who have all other citizenships, who have other citizenships, could benefit from all the privileges that arise. Now, is that Serbia, Croatia, Turkey, Germany, Australia, I know which countries. But at a time when BiH officials are BiH state officials, I think it would be correct to commit to using the BiH state passport. I can think of it as unserious if we show up somewhere in a foreign country that doesn't even know BiH exists. There was a story today about Argentina. I have to tell you that almost my wife was at a congress in Argentina from the Kosevo Clinical Centre and they killed themselves by explaining to Argentina exactly where BiH is. They do not know that BiH exists as a state, and that world with which it communicates does not know 54. Therefore, I think it would be correct to leave this conclusion as it is, that in the segment: as they perform functions on behalf of the BiH state, they travel with a passport from the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14177	Thank you. We'll move on to the voting phase. We are voting on the first conclusion of the honourable Member of Lagumdžija. The conclusion is: 'Investment and judicial institutions are in charge of making within a month information on the procedures and findings of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Executive Workers.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 25, "against" was not, "sustained" two, a sufficient entity majority. This conclusion has been adopted. Since honourable MP Halilović did not accept this amendment, his conclusion reads: "All BiH officials commit to using the BiH state passport on official travel." Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 16, "against" two, "sustained", five, insufficient entity majority. Since we don't have a third member of the Kolegijum, the House will be notified within the legal time limit. We move to the third paragraph of the 16th session: Ad. 3. Information from the Council of Ministers on the realisation of the conclusions of the 59rd and 73rd sessions of the previous House of Commons on the discussion of the proposal of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics on the results of the resolution of the presentation of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Association of Decertified Officers of Republika Srpska – Proposer: MP Zlatko Lagumdžija For this point, we have received material from the Council of Ministers. The material was delivered to you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14179	What would my old friend, this one, say, let's first move on to the previous question to resolve it. I don't know, Chairman, how do you think we're discussing this agenda point right now? Here, look over there, I mean, what they say, doesn't need to be a scientist to conclude that we don't have anyone to talk to about this. To make this conclusion again, it really loses its sport character. In other words, I suggest, Mr. Chairman, that, indeed, since this is certainly the end of the day, that we finely conclude that this is going for the next session, to express ours, to assign you to truly express your disdain for the Council of Ministers. Maybe we should use it to give us information, by the way, because what we have here, this is information from the Foreign Ministry, which is, as far as I can tell, not responding. He wrote quite a lot of what was done here. Well, no, not everything, don't let me tell you what's wrong. Let's just say he forgot that Željko Komšić was talking to the Banka about this, and he said who he was talking to: the Minister of Vietnam and the rest. I mean, so it would be good to update this and his and get it from this other minister. berize, we could put you in charge, is it, of this minister of human rights and refugees to say which, too, because this is all he's been screwing around here as things are right now. So we would do well to get really one, and especially, please, Mr. Živković, here we especially need an answer to the first two conclusions of the 73rd session, which is the point of the second conclusion. The second conclusion was not made, in the second conclusion, that these people from the budget were provided with funds to resolve social and labour issues, in line with the status of suspended officials, until entity authorities realised their obligations until the process was completed. So, nothing was done to these people and we know very well, so the circumstances told him the chairman of the presidency that the Banka... had been given the assurance that it was all up to us, that as far as they were concerned, they no longer had that ban that we couldn't solve these problems for them. So now it's really up to us, and that's why we're going to use this time until the next session, whenever it is, to try to do something, not to have a point for the point. Well, that's my suggestion. Otherwise, we can discuss it. As far as I'm concerned, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-30-0.u14180	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might still be having a discussion about this agenda item? If not, I will put this conclusion to the honourable MP Lagumdžija for the vote. The conclusion is: 'This item of the agenda shall be placed on the agenda of the 17th session to be held on 14 and 15. (If we don't finish 14, we'll do 15.) and in the meantime, the Council of Ministers is tasked with supplementing the material in the sense of the second conclusion, in accordance with this item of the agenda." Is that in that background you were talking about? I'm asking Dom to make a statement about this. Prepare to vote. 56 Vote now! "For" 28, without "against" and "abstained", a sufficient entity majority – this conclusion was adopted. We've exhausted the agenda of this session. Just a few notes, please. A meeting of Poslanica is scheduled for November 12th – delegates ask, the Council of Ministers responds. By 7. questions may still be raised in writing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I hope that we will have the Council of Ministers in full capacity to attend the session, and our next session is scheduled for 14th and 15th of next month, respectively. I thank you. The seat's finished at 4:00.
