ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14181	And, gentlemen, honourable guests, I am opening the 17th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, as you know, died in a serious car accident this year on 17 November, Mr Ivo Lozančić, an MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, was in several terms. I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased, Mr. Ivo Lozančić, for a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14184	Praise him! According to the service report, I find the session to be attended by 38 MPs, 25 from the Federation of BiH and 13 from the RS. I find the session has a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Before we move to a debate on the agenda, allow me to elaborate an initiative on the previous issue. The Centre for Therapy and Rehabilitation "Viva Women" is about marking international days against violence against women marking themselves in the world from November 25th to December 10th this year. At a session of the extended Dom College, Mrs Hadžiahmetović initiated that the BiH Parliament was also involved in a campaign initiated by the Council of Europe in support of the fight against violence. I hope you don't mind that on behalf of the Kolegijum and on your behalf, I also find that the BiH Parliament is joining this campaign and I call on all the institutions of the state and entities to take all the activities in establishing legal and any other 2 environments in order to ensure effective prevention of violence against women, but also all other forms of violent behaviour in our country. If anyone has a need or a desire to say anything about this, I'll allow it. If not, ladies and gentlemen, I have called this session in accordance with Rule 62(3) of the Rules of Procedure of this House. So it's an emergency procedure. The reasons for this kind of convocation, I hope, do not need to be specifically explained to you, the ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, or to our public. Because in the previous days, all eyes were focused on the BiH Parliament and we were expected to take this important step to agree on the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives as well as on the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, in order to move further towards resolving the emerging political crisis in BiH. So, in line with this situation, you received an emergency call for this session, with the following draft agenda: 1. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Beriz Belkić to consider the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 2. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on visa facilitations, (b) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's applying for a hearing? Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14185	Dear Chairman, I would suggest, while respecting the specific weight of both points of the agenda, that we consider point 2 first, given that the Presidency should give during today's day and agreement in the final act of ratification. If that's all the same, I'd be begging, if that's possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14186	Thank you. We had our doubts in the College. More, frankly, we acted as administrators, so because it was a request for 127. However, we do not mind if the House declares this, we will put your proposal to a vote. Does anyone else report to the agenda? Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14187	Dear Chairman, esteemed present, in accordance with Rule 65 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I propose that we add today's session to the next item of the agenda that is directly related to this offered agenda. Namely, I propose that we address this agenda point in the following way: Considering the contents of the letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary House of BiH, which he referred to to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe on 21 November 2007 and adopting the conclusions regarding that letter. Since the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives addressed the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe with a series of disinformations on the situation and opportunities in BiH as well as to engage in inappropriate and adventurous interpretation of the High Representative's mandate, it is necessary that the highest body of the legislative authority in this country be fenced from such communication with representatives of the Council of Europe. It is a particularly indicative fact that the chairman of Parliament's House of Representatives on 21 November of this year did not address himself on his personal behalf, but rather at the end of the letter, I quote: 'Our call for respect for justice and democracy'. It is therefore necessary to ask a number of principled questions. On whose behalf did the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives address the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe? As far as I know, on behalf of my fellow SDP, it's not, I don't know about the others!? Did he consult other members of the House of Representatives for the contents of the letter? If not, why did none of the other members of the College fence from this letter? Then, whether this way of work inaugurates a new practice to inform unilaterally representatives of the Council of Europe and other representatives of foreign countries, I stress, know-how, consent and decisions of Parliament. Finally, is the chairman of the House of Representatives an authorised representative to interpret to the Council of Europe the General Framework Agreement for Peace of BiH, Annex X of the aforementioned agreement and the mandate of the High Representative? In particular, it concerns the ultimate unilateral and incorrect information and representation of the political mood and thinking of most BiH citizens regarding the decision to amend and supplement the Council of Ministers' Law that has been adopted by the High Representative. It is obvious that it is the misinformation of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe without any attitude, opinion or recommendation from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since such an act has caused damage to the reputation and dignity of the Parliamentary Assembly, but also damage to BiH's communication with the Council of Europe because of the incorrect presentation of the situation in the country, the least we as MPs can do today is to build the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from personal assessments and the views of BiH Parliamentary Assembly Speaker Milorad Živković's House of Representatives. It should also be pointed out that the chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, in addition to all other failures, violated the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives 4 of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. In this regard, Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure set out the duties of the Chairman, which can clearly conclude that the letter of 21 November 2007 is outside the business powers and duties of the Chairman. And finally, of course, the question can be asked: Why did the chairman of the House of Representatives address the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe when he made his views very clear in addressing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at the 6th joint session of 30.10. On that occasion, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe also pointed out and quotes him: 'Existing...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14188	Please do not enter your agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14189	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14190	Pursuant to that same Article, paragraph 65 (2), suggest a item of the agenda and we will enter into that statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14191	I suggest, therefore, resuming, recommending the agenda point, delivering material, explaining, delivering the proposal for a conclusion, delivering as a contribution to the debate the integral text of the letter to the chairman, Mr. Milorad Živković, of 21.11. I am delivering in writing immediately, so right now, the address of Secretary General of the Council of Europe Teri Dejvisa and I call on all my colleagues in Parliament to see if we here are going to be subjects who are asking questions or if we are going to be objects in someone's letters for which none of us are consulted or asked. So, not to go any further, I deliver everything in writing and suggest that this be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14192	Thank you. Was that all or do you have anything else on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14193	That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14194	Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 5 Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have today a draft agenda containing two points: one is the Rules of Procedure and the other is ratification of... the agreement, one of which is very important to BiH. It's just...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14196	Please, if you could speak a little louder, you can't hear this. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14197	:... it is, therefore, about the ratification agreement, therefore, about the ratification of the Visa Facilitation Agreement, which is very important for BiH. Given the importance of both the Rules of Procedure and the Agreement, I accept that these two points of the agenda were not in the agenda for the announced session, the 17th session, which was to be held today, I am therefore, accepting and realizing the seriousness and importance of both this situation and the crisis as we have, I suggest, however, that we address this as an extraordinary session. These aren't normal conditions, these aren't normally prepared sessions, and she has, by all accounts, one extraordinary importance. So it's not about the 17th session, which was scheduled with the agenda we had, the topics we were supposed to discuss today, but it's about completely new topics, the new content of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14198	Is that your key remark? In fact, there is no mention in the Rules of Procedure that a special or special session can be scheduled, and we have decided with the technical service of our home to address it because the order comes in 17th, and that the 17th session that we have already scheduled with the proposed agenda as you have here in the explanation of heading 18th, which is most likely to be held by MEPs now, if no other things were to happen in the meantime. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14199	I don't know if I made myself clear. I'm familiar with the Rules of Procedure, and I know we don't, but I wanted us to understand, too, and that you as a College explain calling this session in an emergency situation. So it's not called a session, it's not going to be held as it's been called to consider the agenda of the 17th session, which we've been prepared for, but we're getting something that's been typed and delivered under today's date. Here, let's be aware of that. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14200	We believe that we have respected the Rules of Procedure and that the session is scheduled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You, if you have any suggestions, feel free to make a suggestion, we will plead according to that proposal. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14201	Gentlemen, the chairman, I have no objections to the agenda, but I would like to comment on my fellow Bećirović' proposal. Namely, this letter reminds me of another letter written by two members of the Bureau to the Secretary - General of the United Nations. Well, then everyone writes, looks like some letters, so I believe the members of the College decided to act like members of the Bureau, too, so they're texting a little bit. So... I will agree to discuss this the moment I first discuss the way members of the Bureau, individual members of the Presidency, and the writing of individual members of the Bureau to international institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14202	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Probably a replica or an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14203	Replica to Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14204	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14205	Very short. I am not a member of the BiH presidency, but I am a member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. If anyone speaks for me, I want to know if he did it with my recommendation, consent or any decision or not. Therefore, these are two separate things and, I repeat, I have submitted a proposal for a conclusion, a proposal for an explanation, both texts in an integrated form, and I expect it to be shared with all MPs before the statement, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14206	Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14207	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, although I felt that this debate on the agenda would be over quickly, however, there is obviously a need to respond to the least incorrect proposals this way. I think Mr Bećirović, with his proposals, would welcome those forces in BiH who want to trouble each and every thing. And that's what he's doing right now, and that's where he's driving that water.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14208	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14209	We can't accept a proposal like this, and we won't accept a proposal like this on the agenda. The chairman worked according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, according to the rules of good conduct and did not write with anyone but did what he was entitled to. What Mr Bećirović wants, it is exactly what this college has avoided for the past month and has sought to make this parliament look like Parliament, not that every thing is troubled in this way, especially with the truths. The fact that you will not individually be asked what the chairman is doing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure—that is what he writes to you. You have your rights, but, obviously, you're looking for something more than the rights provided for in this Rules of Procedure; then you'd be called chairman, and since you belong to that part of social democracy, which is now a dark spot in this part of the world, then you, when you're chairman, will then have the right, probably. I will never dispute with you to write a letter as chairman, but to order the chairman and enter into his kind of correspondence and which does not challenge anyone else. I can accept that you have the right to comment, but to be the point of the agenda – that's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14210	I would ask MPs to discuss the points of the agenda, please, we do not discuss them, to suggest them. If we adopt them, we'll open up a debate, because obviously... someone wants to discuss it. Replica, Ambassador Bećirović, is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14211	Who is a black or dark stain in this country, in this region, and in this continent – will neither decide nor judge Mr Kalabić nor I. There are already people who have come forward and said who is black stain and in this country. So I don't want to discuss it. I'll be back on the subject. So I asked a few principled questions. And we'd like to have an answer for them today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14212	All right, we heard those questions, can we go after that? 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14213	I'm not repeating questions. I'm replicating. On whose behalf is someone speaking, is it possible to say in a letter that this is our call without us knowing about it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14214	Here you are talking, repeating, please make...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14215	I'm not saying it again, I'm pointing out one...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14216	You're repeating.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14217	...principle thing that we need to clear up today! I do not repeat when I say that today is one moment when we all in the BiH Parliament need to show whether we will bow down before the introduction of a parliamentary anarchy in which each of us will write whatever he wants and whatever he wants and whoever he wants in Europe and the world or we will agree to work towards the Rules of Procedure and that, eventually, the name of Parliament is brought and written by the appropriate letters, only when we have agreement. The point is that someone was speaking for us without asking us about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14218	Please don't, don't abuse the good will to give everyone the opportunity to replicate, to try to put this session in a way that your proposal is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14219	Mr. Chairman, I am still within the Rules of Procedure when it comes to the time foreseen for replication and I am finishing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14220	Yeah, but you broke it when you talked about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14221	So today, please, don't interrupt me, I'm in the Rules of Procedure, so we have three minutes for replication. I repeat the closing sentence: we are asking, therefore, to see if anyone can address the name of the MPs of the House of Representatives, to make very serious views and views without asking the House of Representatives about it. If he can, today who everyone thinks he can, let them vote, and then we'll get into one practice that won't, I believe, do anyone any good. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14222	The esteemed second vice-president, Mr. Belkić, wanted to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14223	Maybe it's not even correcting the false quote, it's not correcting the information. So, when it comes to the College, I asked that question and we discussed it at the College and I received information that it was written on behalf of - a personal name.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14224	Thank you. Please, we will allow Mr Bećirović to answer the word....... in relation to the replica, although I think it is collegiate for others to be able to talk about the points of the agenda. Ambassador Bećirović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14225	Thank you. I hope the conditions are met so we can continue. I really thank Mr. Belkić for this information, and I think that she is useful and at this point I can only deepen my proposal to put this on the agenda, for the simple reason that we have now heard that this letter written by the name of us is not even harmonised among the three members of the College. And I remind you, and you've all got, I don't know why you don't already copy it and don't deliver it to the MPs. At the end of the letter, it is said that this is our call, and here we see now a very clear statement from Mr Belkić that even those three members of the College did not agree to this letter.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14226	Please don't open the debate. If there is a need, if Parliament asks me, I will make it clear... and then everything will be explained, and if there is a need to discuss it. Dear Ambassador Okolić came first for his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14227	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, representatives of the international community, means of information, dear guests, I just wanted to help solve these moments at which we are wasting our time. Mr. Bećirović has every right to run for 10 points of the agenda, but we have opened the agenda point and started to discuss it. I ask you to direct yourself to putting on a vote on who's to include, then we'll open the discussion, but don't even put the agenda on the agenda right now, we're discussing and we're starting to go deep into the essence and cause replicas and we're wasting our time without need. Please, as chairman, so put it to a vote along with the agenda who's for that point! If it's on the agenda, and I'm going to discuss it, if it doesn't, we don't need to get into this kind of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14228	I ask you to help me conduct this session in such a way. Believe it is not easy when MPs seek a word for a replica that is not regulated in the Rules of Procedure as far as it has the right to report that I find it difficult not to give a word. But don't abuse good will and desire to take advantage of what the Rules of Procedure says. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14229	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is my suggestion that we really turn to the agenda and, if possible, to the first item of the agenda. I expected that all of us in this House would be looking forward to the beginning of this session, after the other day we spent here all day walking down the halls wondering what would happen. I now have the impression that there are some here in this House who are not looking forward to the fact that we are on the verge of coming out of a political crisis that has arisen for these or those reasons and I have a feeling that today we could take that last step that would mean here is the beginning of a faster resolution of large issues in BiH. I think that the public is well aware that the European Commission is also ready, if Parliament agrees on the Rules of Procedure, to accept the Action Plan for Police Reform, as well as a sufficient condition for already in progress, perhaps this year, to obtain conditions for paraphrasing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I ask you if BiH has more activity than this activity, any letter and any letter. We will always have time to discuss the letter in one way or another, and every MP has the right to ask for something to be included in the agenda, but, because of the importance of what we have on the agenda today, it is my suggestion to finish this job, to concentrate on that Rules of Procedure, to see if it is really good, is it really good, is it suitable for everyone and that tomorrow, already today, we send a encouraging message to our public! This way, if we get involved with what anybody said and if they've written anything precise or incorrect in the past period, I'm afraid we'll be spinning around in a chain wheel. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14230	Thank you. If no more; Reverend Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14231	Dear colleagues, I have a real need. I think that... the public's expectation of this session goes beyond a far-reaching analysis of the letters that were and which, of course, deserve attention and which should be analysed. However, I think that the College of the House of Representatives has acted in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure and that two issues that are really time-related have been put on the agenda and that the public expects us to resolve these issues, because they have been brought to a teat by good measure and our guilt. I would like to support Professor Hadžiahmetović's proposal to put the issue of granting consent to paraphrase the visa relief agreement as the first item of the agenda, and I think it is simply necessary. Namely, if, by the end of the working day of this month, signed by the Presidency, the Agreement reaches the European Commission, the Agreement shall apply from the new year. If he arrives tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, he'll apply from February. In this way we extend the agony of our citizens for a month and collect the costs of our citizens, that month by double. So, I support the proposal, and I ask you to put that point on the table and finally start solving these issues, because that's what citizens expect of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14232	Thank you. If there's no one to report for the hearing, I'm closing the debate. And we'll put it in order to apply the proposals. The first is the proposal of the honourable Parliament of Hadžiahmetović, which proposes that item 2 of the proposed agenda The granting of approval for ratification under a) and b) be placed as the 1st item of the agenda, while the 1st item of the agenda of the Rules of Procedure's amendment and addition is placed as the second item of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" one, "compatible" was not, with enough – we will have to repeat this vote. It's a technical problem. So, there's no one in the room, and it shows that he voted "against." Is that it? Yes, professor!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14233	No microphone 12 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14234	I thank you for this observation. The second proposal was the proposal of the honourable MP Denis Bećirović, who asked to put the agenda under 3rd, which reads: Considering the contents of the letter from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's chairman's House of Representatives sent to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe on 21.11.2007 and the adoption of the conclusions regarding that letter. It can't, since we're on our way... it's no business intervention. Tell me which member of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14235	Since much time has been spent, has man prepared the materials, can we wait until these materials are shared? It's two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14236	You think that's gonna change something?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14237	Well, we should, otherwise we shouldn't have discussed it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14238	Can we solve this situation like this: let's ask Dom if we'll wait for these materials to be shared, or if there's a need, or if we vote? What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14239	But here, they got it!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14240	They won, didn't they? I thought you were gonna say that. Please prepare to vote on Mr Bećirović's initiative. I'm asking Dom to vote. Now! "For" 13, "against" 23, "abstained" one. There wasn't a general majority to put in; I hope you'll take a list of this. Thank you. 13 I find that we have adopted the following 1. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the Facilitation of Visas, (b) of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the reading of persons staying without authorisation. 2. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Beriz Belkić to consider the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. Moving to the 1st point of the agenda Ad.1. Giving consent to ratification
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, very briefly. The Committee for Foreign Affairs, respecting the importance of those agreements and the very short time left to enjoy the benefits of visa relief after their ratification, the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously proposed that this respected home be given consent to ratification of both agreements. In addition to this positive opinion, I would like to inform this distinguished home that the Foreign Affairs Committee has adopted a two-point conclusion, in which we express dissatisfaction as a commission because of the slow process and the procedure from the day of the signing of the Agreement 18.9.7. to ratification, and this slowness has put BiH and its citizens at risk of not being able to take advantage of visa relief and ask for full information from the Council of Ministers why has it been delayed in this procedure from signing the Agreement to ratification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14244	Thank you. 14 I'm closing the debate. How is it not open? The debate is open, so with the Commission's report, the debate is open! Has anyone else called for a hearing? Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14245	I am pleased to hear from the President of the Commission such a remark, but I expected that this remark to be written in the Commission's report today. I, indeed...... in order to save your time, want to sincerely give the most serious criticism to the Council of Ministers for this situation to bring us 5 minutes to 12 for the ratification of such an agreement very important to the citizens of BiH! Here, in essence, I support... the discussion of my colleague Matić, by making a serious remark to our Foreign Affairs Commission, which she did not write in her official report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14246	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14247	I would also like to say that as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission: we, on my proposal, have adopted one conclusion which, unfortunately, I do not know for what reason, has not been delivered to the MPs. And in the official Foreign Affairs Commission report, the House of Representatives had to find that question, because we concluded it. I recall, and we said that to the Commission, and now I am speaking as an MP, we wanted to express our open dissatisfaction with the irresponsible approach of the Council of Ministers to those agreements, because by delaying the consideration and adoption of these documents, BiH citizens are being put in an extremely difficult position. We also asked the Council of Ministers to speed up activities aimed at bringing BiH closer to European integration. However, the question arises whether all of us in this country, including this parliament, had to come precisely to the position that we had half a day left to adopt at one and another home of these agreements, so that BiH citizens would not come to a position that they could come to. I remind you, and we heard this on this commission, that if visas are not realised in this remaining half of the day, they could collect double for the citizens of BiH. To my question whether anyone has made an economic calculation of how much it will cost BiH citizens, what is the average of monthly visa issuing, unfortunately, I couldn't get an answer, or whether we will finally determine someone's responsibility in this country. If in this country the Council of Ministers is unable to do at least such things as signing these agreements, the question is what the Council of Ministers is doing, what kind of policy they are implementing and whether they serve the citizens of this country. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14248	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14249	I would really like to confirm what my colleague is saying: that, before this session, we have had a session of the Commission and that we have made two, or three conclusions, which should have been an integral part of this report or a special one; that it will come, now it is a technique that needs to be worked out there, but we have indeed expressed our disagreement: that two and a half months after the signing of the Agreement, in the procedure, from the signing to the delivery here, that we should be two and a half months, and in particular we, for the sake of informing this home, as a commission, have requested complete information, means from the procedure of what was happening, from the moment of signing 18.9th to today, so that we may, in further discussions, as a commission, be in charge of giving opinions on international contracts, bring certain views, and until then we have not entered into more serious conclusions and findings on the subject matter. So I really want to confirm that there is a need to vote on these conclusions that we have made, which we have expressed our dissatisfaction with the length of this procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14250	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14251	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the public needs to know a few facts, a few facts. Fact number one: The presidency accepted the agreement half a year ago, and authorised the signatories half a year ago. The signature was supposed to be signed for almost four months. Okay. Maybe he's not alone, depending on the other side. Then when it was signed, three months ago it was signed -- just so it's known that the public knows: in this House this waited less than one day for all parliamentary procedures to pass. So it took less than a day in this House! All expected were the Presidency and Parliament, as far as it was, when communication was made between the Presidency and Parliament, it was all done in 24 hours. And all the rest of the time was in the Council of Ministers?- I'm sorry. And that is why it is up to the competent ministers and the Council of Ministers to answer. The public must know that in the Council of Ministers this cost two months and, if nothing, the Council of Ministers could only meet for this in the most technical term, because absolutely nothing was disputed. So the citizens of this country must know that half a year longer than they will stand (which will be the case). It just needs the public to know and that, thank Bog, there we are, at least in this House collectively that we were expeditionive that we couldn't be faster. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14252	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. We will vote individually on the agreement under a), sub b), after which, and the conclusions of our commission which I hope you have won on your desks. I ask the House to prepare for a vote on an agreement between BiH and the European Community on visa facilitations. You can vote. Now! "For" 37, without "against" and "abstained", enough entity majority – I realize that we have ratified this agreement. I call upon the House to declare its ratification of the Agreement. Dear Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14253	I'm sorry. It didn't register me, and I was "yes." I'd like you to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14254	Please prepare for a repeat vote on a) of the agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on visa waivers. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 38, without "against" and "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority - I find that a consensus has been given for the ratification of this agreement. I ask the House to prepare for a vote on ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Community on the readmission of persons staying without authorisation. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 35, "against" was not, "abstained" one – I find that with a sufficient entity majority, the approval for ratification of the Agreement was given. The House should now declare its conclusion with the 17th session of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held on 30.11.2007, which has a position (1) and (2). I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! 17 "For" 36, "against" was not, one "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority – I find that we have adopted the conclusions of our Foreign Affairs Commission. Moving to point 2. Ad.2. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Niko Lozančić and Beriz Belkić to consider the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. I just want to brief you on the fact that as a College, we have had more than five meetings with the Office of the High Representative, that there have been more than eight proposals, various modifications, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, that we held the last meeting with the High Representative this morning at 10.00 a.m. when we were able to find a consensus in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH – this text is in front of you. I am opening a debate on the proposed text, where, please, we have proposed at the Extended College that we limit the debate on the request of the 127th member of the Rules of Procedure to three minutes, and that we limit the debate on the very essence of the Rules of Procedure to five minutes. I'm asking the House to make a statement about this proposal, but before that, we're opening a debate on it. Dear Ambassador Novaković, the honourable Ambassador of Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14256	Mr. Chairman, I'd just like to remove one dilemma. In fact, there was an impression from what you said that the Expansive College supported the proposal and did not support it. Thus, the enlarged College did not support the proposal to reduce the discussions to three or five minutes, respectively.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14257	I didn't say he supported it, I said there was a discussion at the Expansive College about it. We in the College, and I, as chairman, have the right to propose to the Rules of Procedure, so that the agenda is fully respected, the way we will work in Parliament, but I also have the will and will to get from you support for such a proposal. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija if he had anything. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14258	The country is shaking in extra fever and crisis, as some say, already here for more than five weeks, here's what this is about. Because of this. The heavy words have fallen, the accusations, the division of new ones, the 18 old ones are opening up, and you've now divided us half an hour ago into a table. We rule this matter so much that we know what you've done. However, this is an incursion into essential problems of functioning and, in particular, some possible crisis situations... that have caused everything to happen. And you now, after five weeks of break, ask that one capital matter be decided in the discussions that should be limited in time, which, least of all, is inappropriate to the problems we have ahead of us. But no problem. I want to express my harsh disagreement over this, with the time limit, and so much more that you've spent so much time getting to what you've done. We'll be able to explain it in less than five minutes, if there's a stop-pani, but we'll explain it especially later, when we get out of here and, the more out of here, the bigger the problem will be when we get out. So I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, not to limit this time. You'll vote again what you wanted. At least to make it more clear to you what you've done.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14259	Thank you. I won't limit anything. I ask Parliament to make that clear. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14260	Since this is a very complex, very serious and important issue for this country, I call on all my colleagues to have a serious discussion about this and not to shorten this discussion. If we haven't shortened the discussion when we were discussing an integrated car, I don't think we're going to be talking about this important thing right now, which is why we're going to be talking in this country for weeks, breaking our knees and cutting down discussions with the MPs. It wasn't that long ago when we discussed this and similar matter, when some were telling us – we need public debates, we need a broad discussion about it, etc. And today, even though we got this material half an hour ago, someone wants to limit us to five minutes and break this over our knees. I propose that we pay attention to this issue and allow MPs to express their views on this very serious and important issue for this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14261	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14262	To join these... who feel that we shouldn't limit the discussion, although I think in these five minutes you can say enough... I'll explain that later. Now I just want to say 19 that I don't think this is clear to me until the end what's written here, and I'm afraid it's not clear to you either. And secondly, what I wanted to notice is: from May of this year to today, I have led a kind of fight, an action to transfer these sessions of Parliament. I think today has been an important day for both this Parliament and BiH and, well, take my grudge, criticism, which is not guaranteed direct TV transmission, because this is a really important session and it would be right for the citizens to know what it is, to see what it is. They're already deluded with all possible information, misinformation, threats, referendums, secessions, wars, whether there will be, or not, the very fact that today's session of the Presidency is not being transferred, I think it speaks too much and that it shouldn't even be commented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14263	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14264	Dear President, honourable MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, means, by respecting this proposal we heard at the Expansive College, I don't consider it even our club as a restriction of debate, and that's why I volunteered. It's about how long a debate takes, and I'll remind you that some of the standards, for example, are in the Council of Europe: you can't speak for more than five minutes. So now let's not pretend that someone wants to limit it here. I do not view the proposal as a restriction on the debate but rather an attempt to rationalise the debate by deadlines, and we know which deadlines are set by the High Representative. That's one thing. I'm joining, I'm not going to tell the critics, but I think it was meant to provide TV transmission and that, it's a strong argument, we showed in those three-day sessions that the public got one more complete, more complete information about positions and parties and the work of institutions and it's the best cure for rejecting negative stories and tensions and creating frustrations and manipulations with people. And another thing I'd like to end up with. So we have one responsibility terrible. And all those who call on that responsibility have a chance to practice it today. I warned... the opposition, I understand that you criticized when there was no agreement and that the deadline had not been respected and that no solution had been found. But this is a moment that's important to the country, in terms of these deadlines that open up to us and opportunities to work. And, in that sense, I don't think we should waste time and it's not right to waste time, in terms of creating additional tensions over the debate. Everyone will be able to say what is to be said here, but the fact that Parliament, through this adoption of the amendments and additions that have been confirmed here today by the public and the High Representative, has a chance to first show responsibility and withdraw this country from this important situation. And let's go that way, if we can. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14265	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14266	Gentlemen, the chairman, the SNSD Club will support this proposal just using the argument of some predecessors that everything has been said about this topic. Respecting the fact that some people, MPs, and primarily members of the Kolegijum have worked on this for a long time, and respecting the fact and the right of some MPs to be involved today, I think today's decision is expected of us. We've been discussing this for a long time on different bodies. Everyone has made their own kind of contributions that we can assess both positively and negatively, and in any way, but that more or less everyone knows everything about this – that's a fact. I expect from today's session that we will decide with great respect and that such a decision involves a constructive debate... which will not lead us to be able to endanger only the decision of the time itself. If we haven't spent enough time on this in the past, and especially a part of the people who've been living with this day and been involved in this, I think they have at least the right today to make this decision, and I expect that today we'll decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14267	Thank you. I'd like to put the motion I put forward on the vote right now. I ask the House of Representatives to prepare for the vote: to limit the discussion to three minutes on the request for procedure 127, and the debate on the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure to five minutes. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 25, "against" nine, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority - I find that Dom has respected the proposal. I am opening a debate on a request for an emergency procedure under Rule 127. I'm asking you to sign up for an electronic hearing. If there are no reports, if there are no reports, we should vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14268	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14269	You want a list? Here you go, business intervention. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14270	Mr. Chairman, obviously, something really doesn't seem right with this. Mr. Zorić just voted, we kept saying. A moment ago Mr. Dokić was somewhere else, although he was here virtually, now Jozo voted here, not registered. We're just saying that something, we see that you chose to do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14271	Are you asking for a repeat vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14272	We're not looking for a repeat vote, just a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14273	Then there's no need...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14274	...just a little bit, please, since it's obvious now, we're not going to stay, we're not interested in writing here to one of us that it was "for" because we know where we were. But it wouldn't be bad when there's a real vote to forget electronics, because I'm afraid something's wrong with her here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14275	Of course, you have the Rules of Procedure to ask and call for a vote. But if there is no problem with the finding of the previous vote, please, and if none of the MPs is asking for a repeat vote – let us move on to the debate on the request per article 127. Rules of Procedure. I'm the one who invited the MPs to come to the hearing? Shall we do it again? I ask the House of Representatives to prepare for the vote, the re-voting on the proposal we made. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 27, "against" 10, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority – we adopted the Kolegijum proposal. I hope there's no one commenting on the vote. You can now apply for an examination under Article 127 proposed by the Kolegijum of Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. We're discussing the request. If no one's answering for a hearing, I'm closing the debate. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! 22
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14276	Just so you know, I've been reported electronically, but you haven't, but no problem. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14277	Since not all of them are registered to vote, is someone asking for a re-election? Then I find that “for” 27, “against” one, “abstained” one, with a sufficient entity majority – a request for an emergency procedure of 127 was adopted. I asked if there was anyone to... [[Common discussion]] Shall we do it again this time? So the club, please, please be patient, so we'll come to our own. The SDS Club is asking for a re-election. I ask the House to prepare to vote on the request for 127. Please be prepared. Let's not repeat the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 31, "against" three, "abstained" four, with a sufficient entity majority – the request was adopted. We are going to discuss amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Please sign up for a hearing. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14279	Mr. Chairman, therefore, this is not a discussion, this is – what my friend Beriz would say sometimes, I can't say the former, but he used to say – first question to resolve. This is the Rules of Procedure that you three have proposed. You're the promoters. Will one of you give an opening statement to explain this, not so much to us, it's all clear to us, but to the people whose fates this is about, these people, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14280	Please, let's hold back. It says in the Rules of Procedure that he can, without having to, your question is whether or not he will! 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14281	Mr. Chairman, I know you don't have to, first of all, you don't have to do anything, you could have, you could have.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14282	Please, what are you asking us to do business?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14283	I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14284	Should we plead whether or not we will?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14285	...so my question is, will you, Mr. Chairman, do this? I think it would be normal, given that five weeks of the country stands for this, given that there's a lot of controversy, it's in the text itself, let alone what's happened so far! The question is, will you give the opening remarks, to explain to us what you've done, what all this looks like, and to the issues that are in public, as my friend Beriz said, was very clearly explained. Here's another explanation, 'cause now I'm going to ask you a few questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14286	Thank you. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14287	I'd rather end up than throw this one, this fellow of yours here. I mean, he used to be a lot calmer. He was a nice Beriz once! That from him, now began to look like Sada, I mean it really, so long way to go for such a short time!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14288	Please move to the agenda. Please, so we in the College have agreed, although a report with all the contributions has been written, that we do not think it is appropriate for one of us to particularly explain it, and we want to hear the opinion of the MPs. Please sign up for the discussion. So, the report that we have in the College, and we didn't need to share it with anyone, we thought we shouldn't tolerate it. I want to ask if anyone's answering for a hearing. If there is no debate, Ambassador Azra Alajbegović came forward. You're registered electronically here, you know. Dear Ambassador Rifat Dolić. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14289	You said electronically to sign up, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14290	Next, Jerko Ivanković and then Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14291	So you registered me, though. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14292	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected guests, no longer have any doubt, BiH has been in a political crisis that has only escalated since the signing of a police reform agreement and after BiH has failed to meet the conditions for signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. There is no longer any doubt that the political crisis in BiH is by its action and behaviour of products and generated by parties that make up the parliamentary majority at the state level and act as the government in this country. Also, there is no longer any doubt that the political crisis can be resolved the moment six parties make up their parliamentary majority. Everything else belongs to the domain of deception and error. And too much has been said here so far how severe the consequences for BiH and its citizens are produced by the political crisis. The events of the last days only confirm that the edge of the political crisis has been planned in the BiH Parliament or the Parliamentary Assembly, although it is clear... that powerful homesteads and foreign political lobbys whose interests are being broken, unfortunately, through this parliamentary assembly are hiding behind the crisis. As a means of transferring the political crisis to Parliament, the request of the High Representative for amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure is skillfully used... The demands of the High Representative, in these 40 days since it was addressed, have developed so many unnecessary polemics, we have burdened the citizens so much that they have, on the other hand, suppressed a number of other issues which, I would say, are even more relevant than those treated by the Rules of Procedure. I personally do not have any reservations regarding the need for full transparency in the work of this home, but following the media in BiH can get the impression that we are the first to discuss all important issues in this country in the media, and only after that are we discussing them in Parliament. I think it's wrong and we're further generating citizen psychosis where it's not necessary. I am personally not very happy about the fact that the High Representative must propose or impose decisions on us and I do not feel at all comfortable as an MP because of the fact that almost all the weight of the political crisis has been transferred to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly at this time. This fact obliges us MPs and this home to quickly defuse the causes of the crisis that have been put on our backs. I am not happy either with the fact that at this moment behind the back of the Parliamentary Assembly, there have been some party and personal accounts between political leaders and myself, however much my hand and voice have had a symbolic weight of 42 votes in this House, not 25 I want to allow, therefore, to be anyone's hostage and to bear the burden of responsibility which is undoubtedly at this home today. At this point, two things are completely clear. First, we have an escalation of a political crisis whose focus has been transferred to the Parliamentary Assembly. And secondly, to have a decision by the High Representative and the Request to amend the Rules of Procedure that we must implement. I think today in the debate it is completely irrational and over-analyzing what the writer wanted to say, that is, what the aim of the request for a High Representative to amend the Rules of Procedure and what consequences it will produce, because it will obviously not change the decision. It doesn't matter whether the decision is preventive or essential, and I think we can keep it to ourselves. It is even more irrational in any way to obstruct or devalue the request of the High Representative, because it further deepens the crisis and raises tensions in any of the hot situations. I think today would only be rational and wise to adopt amendments to the Rules of Procedure, in line with the proposal of the High Representative. Any other approach, I think it would be a waste of time and unnecessary re-intention of the crisis, prolonging agony, etc. And, of course, why would it be the responsibility of this Parliament and of our MPs? And this time, without pretentiously being a lawyer or advocating myself to OHR and the high representative, I must say that it is out of my mind to blame the high representative for the political crisis in BiH. We must look into the truth and the causes of the political crisis and, I would say, the free, shameful position of BiH at this point in Europe, recognize within us and between us in our mutual mistrust and inability to negotiate and reach a consensus on matters of importance for BiH and its citizens. Amendment of Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14293	Please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14294	I'm almost done. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure is the right opportunity for us to understand it and start making arrangements and making decisions without any assistance or persuasion or, God Bog, imposing. Whatever it is or whatever it is, I think we can do it and we know it better than anyone outside this country. We need a little more trust and mutual respect and responsibility for the future of this country and its citizens. So today I will support only a decision that means full respect for the High Representative's demands, without any improvisation or cosmetic procedures, because it is an important test of maturity and responsibility of this Parliament and of our MPs. I think the proposal is an amendment to the Rules of Procedure which today is the subject of an unspeakable and ambiguous debate and opens up a space for obstructions, especially in Article 16 concerning Article 79. A Rules of Procedure that regulates the way you decide. I believe that the result of this debate will also be to make these issues concrete. This 26 question, as solved in this proposal, I think it opens up a lot of room for new obstructions and I don't think it improves the solution we've had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14295	Thank you. The replica was first registered by the distinguished representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14296	Thank you, Chairman. With all due respect to fellow Dolić, I must point to the fact that there are contradictions in his own approach. On several occasions, he calls on the authority of the High Representative and urges us to do so in accordance with the recommendations of the High Representative. Well, he was just the high representative, when this issue is on the agenda, and in his first decision he suggested that we in Parliament agree. The High Representative has just made every effort in the past period, this is until this first day of D to make an agreement in the BiH Parliament. Everywhere in parliaments, the assembly majority agree and they are guilty of both the crisis and the exit from the crisis, responsible for getting out of the crisis. So that's nothing new, colleague Doliću. So here I am also joining your finding that here we are acting in accordance with the intensities that have been coming from the Office of the High Representative lately, which means that we are finally in Parliament agreeing on all matters, and this, and in the future, I hope, on all other issues. As you can see, there's a possibility of a deal if there's a political will to negotiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14297	Thank you. Is it the same replica? Dear Ambassador Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14298	I thank the Vice-President. So, briefly. Dear counterpart Dolić said we have an escalating political crisis present. So, I say we don't have an escalation of the political crisis, so later on, he repeated the word political crisis at least twenty times. So this isn't about, we can't, it's not about her being present, as he says: escalating the political crisis here is not about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14299	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić: Replica. Here you go. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14300	.... I don't need to explain that it's an escalation. I think it's visible to a blind man, and especially to us it should be visible. I have to look back on Mr. Dokić's replica. Most of his presentation, I accept, except for the fact that Mr. Dokić is insisting that this proposal respects the recommendations of the High Representative. One of the recommendations refers to the decision-making method, i.e. the decision-making method. I'm just saying that... that recommendation in this proposal is absolutely not respected. There are still doubts, there are still opportunities for various obstructions, etc. That's all I wanted to say. This second part, these other two recommendations are kind of respected in this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14301	Thank you. Dear MP Jerko Ivanković reported on the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14302	The Honored Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, in Article 16 of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates Article 79, is defined as being decided. I don't understand, I can't tell from this whether this means that one decision should be one-third of the entity – selected or present? So I would suggest if the College could give an immediate interpretation, so that at the next session we wouldn't have a problem with which decision is valid or not. And if not, I would like to suggest one conclusion: - The College of the Parliamentary House of BiH is tasked to ask the Constitutional Court of BiH to give the interpretation of Article IV point 3d) of the Constitution of BiH, which is prescribed in Article 16. Proposal for amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure: whether a third of the representatives present or elected from each entity need to vote for the decision to be effective, in order to know at the next session whether or not we need a decision to avoid this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14303	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija. But he's not in the O.R. right now. Does that mean he gave up the discussion or something? 28 [[Common discussion]] Dear Ambassador Novaković is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14305	Dear colleagues, we have heard a lot of big words in this country in the last few dozen days: from abolishing the Bosnian powers, through abandoning Sarajevo, BiH institutions, to abolishing entity voting, voting and, I don't know, what not, and about foreign media and frequent issues whether BiH will be divided or not and what not. Finally, in one idyllic mood, we solved all these problems. I really don't want to spoil and disrupt this idyll, but I don't want to take credit for the crisis. I'll leave that to you. But I can't help but say that we haven't solved the problem today. In fact, the proposed text of the Rules of Procedure is not a solution to the problem but rather a removal of responsibility with a view to avoiding consequences. And that's essential when it comes to this Rules of Procedure. Of course, it's a good thing the European Commission offered a little carrot next to the stick. I think it's pretty tough, hard to chew, but anyway, here, we're going to have a Stabilisation Agreement, a paraphrasing actually a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and then we're going to get into a situation to solve what we're not today. You see, the only thing good about this is that responsibility has been removed from Parliament. In fact, someone deliberately wanted to transfer the crisis to this parliament and transfer responsibility for the consequences of the crisis and, on the other hand, any adopted rules of procedure, regardless of the text, means that the crisis is outside this parliament. And that's the good side of this story. There remains a problem for all who are here, and who will vote for this, how to declare this a victory. Namely, how to declare what it says here a success, compared to what it wrote or what it could have written. And, probably, there's a solution there too. The best thing would be if we could somehow finish this without a session, so there's no debate. I think it would then have a full effect and that the crisis would indeed be very effectively solved. You see, the SDS Club won't support this Rules of Procedure. First, because we think that by erasing some views from the old rules of procedure, we have complicated the situation, not relativated or relaxed. So we, gentlemen, gave up Article 67 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, but at the same time we accepted the constitutional provision that was so far. And, gentlemen, the problem with the constitutional provision is not the interpretation of the constitutional provision. We have never had a problem with the constitutional provision before, but in how anyone interpreted it, or how OHR gave an opinion on that constitutional provision. Now we will no longer have a problem with OHR giving an opinion, but as we interpret it here, so probably one chairman will interpret it in one way, the other chairing it in another way, the third to the third. And that's how we solved this problem. You see, this system step by step, pedal by pedal, change of Rules of Procedure, and a colleague... has already proposed that it be defined in the Constitutional Court, in fact, leading to the desired goal and the intentions of the High Representative and what we were just most afraid of, and that's voting over. In fact, the 29 next phase when we have established here that we will interpret differently – and today we are determining that we will interpret the Constitution differently – it will be in the first critical situation that someone asks for the Constitutional Court's position. It's only today's proposal to make that a conclusion. As the Constitutional Court has so far made decisions, I am not from the position of the RS and representatives or MPs of the Serb people sure, from the RS, that it will be in our favor. Or rather, I'm sure it won't be. What we have achieved: that instead of our decision, voting will be a decision of the Constitutional Court. And it's an extenuating circumstance and decisions of the Constitutional Court that we must apply and we and that step, that last step means, towards the realization of the High Representative's intention, in this way, to be fulfilled. Here is a key reason, not now entering into some illogicalness, that three people can pass the law, and that Parliament rejects it and that we have tried to avoid it with the past rules of procedure and that perhaps now we should have found a way to avoid the abuse of that member, rather than go back to the beginning – that three people adopt the law of the one who did not adopt this parliament. Not getting into any more changes here, which I don't think are a happy solution, I'm going back to the key reason I put out, and that's why the SDS Club can't really support the amendments to this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14306	Thank you. Since the Honorable Ambassador of Lagumdžija is here, do you want a word now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14307	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. We, having not received your report, had to read the existing Rules of Procedure, read the proposed paper from ten days ago, and then read what was written in front of us. I am sorry that you did not directly answer the question that has already been asked to you: What happens in a situation where, let's say, 11 MPs from the RS decide not to come to Parliament. According to the current Rules of Procedure adopted at the time of Kalr Bilta: the lack of 11 MPs from RS meant that in fact this institution no longer exists. So, to be clear, that's what the current Rules of Procedure is all about. That's not constitutional matter, that's what the Rules of Procedure reduced in '97. Then you made the Rules of Procedure from ten days ago, where you kept it. And I understand, Mr. Živković, why you and your party boss were so excited about what you did 10 days ago. You then had one situation in which the article in 79 and 80 was very clear when he said that the decision could only be made if it had at least one third of all who existed, not those who came to the session from both entities. And today you've created a Rules of Procedure that opens up an opportunity. I understand why you're not answering. You, Mr. Živković, read by telling Novaković: No, you didn't read it well. And yet these others are trying to say, you didn't read it well. So, you've made a Rules of Procedure that's made so you can explain that there is and there is no and you're already ready to go to the Constitutional Court if there is a crisis situation. 30 To be very clear, Mr. Chairman, I am asked by the representatives of the international community to talk to them a little. I had, it didn't take me much, it didn't take me five weeks to figure out what people wanted. My question was just one thing. Let's say, on December 11th, an entity assembly, hypothetically, on December 11th, some entity assembly, in some assembly, so that's because I want to take an example, close to me, decides to say: don't come to the BiH Parliament. And, 11 people, let's say, why 11? Well, because it's 11: from the Party for BiH, the SDA, the PDP and the SNSD, there's 11. They're sick from the SDA and the Party for BiH, the PDP guys, God Bog it's deaf, it is, and you are, there's 11 of you and there's this unfortunate Novaković with his club and Hadži Jovan comes and there's no 5. And I asked, please, are there BiH institutions then? Is that according to the current Rules of Procedure? They don't exist! There's no such thing as a business ten days ago! I'm interested in what you've shared with us. Are there any? The answer is yes, there are. Yes, there are. This is made, this is very intelligently designed to exist. But if Živković could speak, maybe they don't exist. So, since Parliament is the only one who provides an interpretation, we, with this Rules of Procedure, are now adopting its interpretation. We need to know that. Look, it's just enough for me to have representatives of the international community who interpret this with and without us. That's what it says here... and this is really, congratulations, Mr. Lozančić, a huge shift on what you signed 10 days ago and said it was yours. It is a huge shift, because according to that 10 days ago, when hypothetically September 11th, 12 people decided not to come, this parliament exists. Eh, great, what worries me, I'm with this interpretation, this is acceptable to us, this is a great victory for those who stopped that betrayal 10 days ago. This is a big win. I do admit it. You too, gentlemen, should say what else is part of the package, what did you, Mr. Živković, get in return for this? In return for this, you got that the RS police remain until a new constitution, so still. But, well, you'll see. No problem. That's what you'll explain to your people later. They'll explain it to their people. That's not the way it is. What is most important to me: we will take from that package of yours, unlike you who take everything, only what suits us. With this interpretation, with this interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, we have made our mission until this step. What would my teacher say, matter, betrayal, matter of personal choice. We've been determined to now, is there something like this I thank you all for moving towards this, which you were for 10 days ago. Because 10 days ago, it meant there was no state institutions in this hypothetical situation. Now, with this interpretation of the international community, there are. And that's what it says here. And you, Mr. Živković, must now explain to your people that I am wrong. Because if you're interpreting it differently from me, then you have a little problem, the three of you. Now, first of all, I congratulate the citizens of BiH on coming up next week...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14308	Please, the time we've adopted. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14309	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14310	Please be careful of the time we've adopted!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14311	Oh, yeah, okay. So let's just let congratulations in the end. It won't be... it won't be wrong for you to congratulate you. So, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of BiH for getting the next week's parade on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement because thanks to this Rules of Procedure, is it, we will take a step forward in which country there is and if someone is on 11 September, excuse me 11 December – I don't know what 11 September, probably looks like on 11 December, you are right – so, on 11 December, if someone thinks to say no more in the institutions of BiH, those with this adoption of the Rules of Procedure, as it is before us, there are. And that's good. And that's good. And I am glad that you who vote "yes" that you gave up what you were for until yesterday. And I'm glad. _______(?) So what now? Nothing. Congratulations! I congratulate you on getting out of it. I congratulate you for breaking, congratulating the gentlemen of the SDA for being so hard, so here's what convinced these coalition partners of theirs to come to this. So, to be very clear, Mr. Živković, by adopting this Rules of Procedure, you've adopted this interpretation that I've interpreted here. I suppose you understand that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14313	Thank you. Wait a minute. Obviously. Dear Ambassador Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14314	It's very difficult, it's an incorrect allegation. So it's very hard to endure. Mrs. Malić says betrayal, Zlatko says the abolition of institutions etc. I must tell you that you have sinned terribly against the truth, terrible. Trust me! So 11 days ago, I know what Mr. Lagumdžija is talking about. He's talking about a harmonised model of possible constitutional changes between the three of us. Here are the people, here's the paper. Not a single moment, not a single letter of quorum, compared to the definition proposed by Lajčak, has been changed. In each version of our paper is the definition: the quorum consists of 22, without a third. You called me a traitor, ma'am. Lagumdžija argues that we have abolished, yes, yes, Lagumdžija claims that we have abolished institutions etc. 32 And the public is working and doing mine... because I don't debate through newspapers, and I won't insult anyone, but this is the truth.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14315	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Wrong quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14316	So, to be clear, I don't know what these SDA guys think you didn't hit them again. I'd like to hear a story. The changes and additions that Lozančić signed, the truth is, Niko signed under this and went to the High Representative. Article 16 since Niko signed it, Article 16, just a little bit, so it's not exactly what Beriz says who said and used the word that people lie about. I am merely saying that it is not, Article 16(2) says (what you have adopted) - in accordance with Article IV point 3d) of the Constitution (in order to remove doubt, you are removing suspicion) one third of the members of the territory of each entity referred to in paragraph (2) of Article 72 of this Rules of Procedure, calculated on the basis of the total number of elected members, underlining elected members from the territory of each entity, one third and the whole story about it was. So I'm glad that you decided to change your mind or that you finally understood what you were thinking.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14317	Please, take it easy. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić wanted to mean it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14318	Ladies and gentlemen, the guests, members of the Council of Ministers, it is my special pleasure that the honourable representative of Lagumdžija is pleased with what we have done and I must say that I expect this decision to adopt this Rules of Procedure to be as green as it was before, so we will all be "yes". I don't know, I understand that you have problems. It's a problem for you when we make a deal and we don't make a deal. And I understand your position. You have the right to be permanently dissatisfied, that's your right, so as an opposition representative. And if I were you, believe me, I'd probably do it that way. However, I am not, fortunately, in your place and I have a responsibility to seek solutions. Neither my intention nor my members at any time is to produce, and in particular, God Bog, to deepen the crisis. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament today, have a proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Lagumdžija, are today discussing one of the possible 16 or 17 versions that have been discussed so that we can come to this proposal today. You're still 16 short. Unlike you, who in the meantime, except through the papers, have not proposed any proposals, remember this, you have not delivered any proposals, and you have had the right to deliver a proposal to this Parliament, whatever you thought the proposal was. So you're talking about something we did. And we 33 have done something, however you like it, I appreciate that you can't like it, or you don't like it. It's your right. So, but it's not correct, so at least it's not correct that we, who did something and did something, you attack, you label, you call, and you try to represent yourself as a fighter for something, and you haven't offered any possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14319	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14320	So... the touching concern that Professor Lagumdžija shows for this coalition of SDA-SBiH. He's worried about what Haris Silajdžić represents. Once again, the president of the Party for BiH represents our interests, so you are now pleased that we have corrected some... coalition partner's position. So, if the coalition ever comes into question, if for nothing else, for Professor Lagumdžija's sake, we'll keep it for his own sake. And as for the text itself: politics is the art of possible. So by that definition, you've made the maximum possible. OHR saw this paper and said that's it. He set two principles to comply with the constitution and to remove the blockades and said it satisfied that you proposed. That's not mentioned today, so here I am now taking it as my right to point out. So, OHR saw the paper, he's satisfied with it, and he'll allow what Professor Lagumdžija said. And I have this news that if Bog does, in December, sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we'll go where we need to go, stop going where we shouldn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14321	Thank you. Is there? Yes, honourable MP Ajanović has a replica of the presentation of the honourable MP Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14322	So I don't get a replica. I want to replicate some people here, so, among other things, Dr. Lagumdžija. And before that, first the Doliću, etc. Many worry and talk not only about them but many people say: it will be Bosnia or it will not be Bosnia. And I, thank Bog, took part in 1992 in Parliament where the Constitution was very precise and clear and I am proud that even in the worst times Bosnia stayed and when some people said it would not be. In the Constitution that was, you could not establish any municipality without a referendum on the entire BiH area, let alone another example. So the Constitutional Court was who spoke, and the government was, and the Presidency was, and it was, and it was, and the war began, and Bosnia did not fall apart. After all, she didn't fall apart. The international community has admitted, remained within its borders, some new administrative divisions have been created inside, etc. 34 So you don't have to be worried that something will happen when it won't be. And as for this text itself, of course we can't all be completely satisfied, but we can't even be dissatisfied completely, and that's why I think the persistent work of this House's representation has come up with a reasonable solution that will allow us to continue the work we've started and that we've started. And here I have to tell the Dolić. Mr. Dolić, never, ever, whatever position you want to bring, from any people and any parties, there will always be crisis situations, because they do not cause these people a crisis situation, but they cause a constitution that is catastrophic. That's one fact I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14323	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to rephrase it to you, and then put it all together. Right? I want to say first, Mr. Lagumdžija, that I'm very glad that you started talking in person, looking into your eyes, and... not through your envoys in the party, you say that. I thought in your party you spoke through your representatives, that you didn't have the courage to go out and say it in your eyes. I'm glad you mentioned my name several times and thus made it clear that, however, you may have the courage to speak in person. Because here I want to say that the alternative that was here in BiH between the resolution of the crisis and reasonable people, the full deepening of the crisis and, perhaps, going in another direction, I think what Mr. Novaković said about this crisis being caused by nothing in this House, in some way, moved from here to the legal institutions of BiH. I also believe that no one will tear down BiH institutions or leave them. The fear was not to allow all MPs to come to the institutions and vote and thus fight for their rights and the BiH Constitution. And that was fear. And I promise you here that if that happens, I will be the last to leave these institutions. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14324	Eh, Doctor, thank you. Really, I'm glad you just said what you said. I think just like this your address is just a confirmation of what I've already heard from the official interpreters of this Rules of Procedure from the international community, so this Jerk issue is practically this one. Mr. Lozančić, I've made myself very clear. I'm glad you came up with a different formulation of Lajcak's decision and I just had Lajcak's decision as a rapper, and that's why I didn't suggest anything new to you. We were for Lajcak's decision to break into the Rules of Procedure. I, therefore, am now very well understood by Mr. Lozančić, whether, Belkić, here you are, that this is actually Lajcak's decision that you gave us, just translated into another language that implies that we should not have the fear that no one will break up these institutions. So let's let that 35 fear I don't have when I'm sure I have the constitutional, legal and business right to survive, even if someone decides to break them up with their boycott. I'm sure there's someone who, possibly, could possibly be remembered to tear them apart. Now, by adopting this Rules of Procedure, that won't happen anymore. And that's good. And we've achieved the right goal. It's good to get out. Even, perhaps, Mr. Živković, we have unfairly accused you of mistrust amongst us, so that you may decide on 11 September whether, December, I apologize, I don't know what it is, I'm a little tired, 11 December, someone else, that you will never get out and that you will fight – these are the institutions of this country that are yours and mine. And I'm glad that you said that this Rules of Procedure and that you practically replied to Jerki, is it, Ivanković, that the Constitutional Court, when we concluded this so nicely? So, Mr. Lozančić, I'm pleased that you've come to Lajcak's decision. I'm glad, because I was at the beginning supporting Lajcak's decision and I wasn't in a position to offer you anything of my own, because I had the support of the party and the people from which I came to Lajcak's valley. And besides, you weren't even trying to help us here. It's kind of easier for you to work out between yourselves, and that's good. And, Mr. Izetbegović, as far as you're concerned, I don't need you to protect this coalition for me. It's only now that I'm unclear after this one of yours. Whether or not Haris is your boss or not, I understand. So keep her safe for yourself. You're going to need her, you're going to need her, you're going to need her. Of course. Keep it for yourself. Believe me, you'll need it too much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14325	Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14326	Debate, I'm in the middle of a debate right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14327	For discussion. There's a few replicas before that. Could not close temporary folder: %s
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14328	It'll last within replica time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14329	Sure, three minutes. And you'll do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14330	Here, don't answer that again. So it's nice to see you, and I've announced here, when Zlatko returns after the conversation that he'll have one clearer opinion. You see how some parties have such a credible policy, it means they don't have a problem with dating and leaving and performing, you know! We are as a party – now I will be a little immodest – a month ago we proposed a way out of the crisis here at the session of both homes and today it is confirmed that it is the only time really that – not to seek a winner here, Mr Novaković, but to seek a compromise. We can't go 36 more ways that there has to be someone defeated here to make this country feel good. Here, that's why I answered the word the most, and I think today is one of the best possible situations to practice the message that we can agree and that there are no defeated and defeated, and that this country is moving forward. Here, I think it's a situation today and... we were all aware if Lajčak was in session today, gentlemen, and if he gave the green light, so I think, I guess those are his measures. There were all the clubs there. So there's no question that there's no room for manipulation and looking for different interpretations than what Lajčak wanted what... we can use it here now for a little pay phone, etc. And those doubts have been removed. And we have a fact that we can really put by the end of the year on the institution rails and go back to what we are primarily tasked with. And I think, here's Mr. Zorić's patent, and I'll quote it: this is the first time that a high representative has shown this kind of tolerance and effort to listen and try not to undermine the possibility of an internal agreement. So let's say hello. And that one approach and... why always black things look. And... I would say, as far as this item of the agenda is concerned, it is addressed to mean: amendments to the Rules of Procedure and I don't know what else you could do today as Parliament but to see – is it acceptable or not? It's acceptable for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14331	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić, so Prodanović had replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14332	Very short. First of all, what Mr. Lagumdžija said, as far as I know, there's no Lajcak's decision. He said several times that we didn't respect Lajcak's decision. I know that in a great desire and wishing for Lajcak's decision and what Mr. Lagumdžija was trying to do these days, to give birth to that decision, so maybe it was the permutation that it was. There's no decision at all. And it is that for the first time, there is no decision like anyone wanted. What Mr. Raguž said earlier, I agree, and I will take it as my right to sit with the High Representative at the Expansive College, which we did not address when we didn't have a session two days ago. And then there was a request from the SDP to work that day and there was no need to sit down and I said we should try to stop these talks in the third, fourth licks to sit with Dad and finish. Is there or is there no story? And it's done and here's the score. Look, I know someone doesn't like this score. It's not that controversial either. And then, in great desire... there is no decision of lajčakov, since Mr. Lagumdžija told the public that people know it. So there's no decision. She's wanted, loved and already seen, but she's gone, never happened. Two, from Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion, you can see one who's watching. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14333	Wait a minute. Time, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14334	I'll be there in a minute. That we changed the Constitution today! We haven't changed the Constitution, Mr. Lagumdžija. We haven't changed the Constitution, we're changing the Rules of Procedure. So you know, so far we've decided by the Constitution undisputed, we're deciding today, and we're going to decide on the Constitution, you know! Do not mislead people into making decisions in this country, the BiH Constitution has clearly regulated how they were made. If you change something today, then you'll either spoil something in the past or in the future. So, something I think you're getting a little caught up in. We don't decide the Constitution, we decide the Rules of Procedure which is the act of this House. The fact that I also respect your desire to be in that Rules of Procedure is what you want, whether it's the Constitution, if it's something else, if it's the prophesy of the future, I think that's what you wanted there. That didn't happen. We only change the Rules of Procedure and we decide, we decide today, Mr Lagumdžija, and we will continue to decide on the basis of the undisputed Constitution. We haven't changed anything about this constitution. Right? There are still the same provisions that we've been working on, the ones we're working on today and the ones we're going to work on. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14335	Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14336	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14337	I don't know what you're having such a problem with me liking this. I don't get it at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14338	Please say business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14339	You want a replica, anyway. _Other Organiser
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14340	You said the line, but you're not in time for the replica, someone's got before you, they've got a replica, there's three of them, if you're up for the replica? No, no, please, business intervention. It's going in order. If you don't have the Rules of Procedure for the intervention, they have those who have responded to the replica, please sit down. Dear MP For Prodanović: replica; pa Bećirović; pa Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14341	Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, gentlemen of the guests, representatives of the Council of Ministers,...it's an amazing thing to me, but now I just understand the position of the SDP in this story. First, we managed for the first time to compromise a solution that, unfortunately 38 of you, is not being solved tomorrow by others in BiH. Secondly, what you are saying is an unusual claim, I must say one thing that representatives, therefore MPs, are now speaking from the SNSD, immediately, I firmly assure you and from the order of the Serbian people have never considered leaving the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. You're telling us now in that sense how pre-warned something is. The further problem is that you think, at the same time, in a certain sense that the Party for BiH or the SDA will now interpret how the agreement was reached, what proposals are and what else. Essentially, your problem is that I have the impression that you were not partners in this achievement of compromise, and at the same time the problem of explaining to the international community how you would be against this, and then you are trying to create a confusing situation of conflict here in the Parliamentary Assembly. How will you be against this when this creation of a functional activity of Parliament, the Council of Ministers, the adoption of a larger number of laws, the signing of a very significant document, or the paraphrasing of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement!? At the same time, I am amazed at the views of the honourable MP Novaković, when it comes to the rules of procedure. At the same time, I must say that his attitudes throughout this period have been much more moderate than we have pointed out. So pointing to the overall situation here is possible when you vote and when you talk about all of this to vote "yes". When you vote "against", I know there will be problems to explain both to citizens and voters. And all the indicators of that, the SNSD had a chance, so we...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14342	Please, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14343	... fully determined – the adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives may compromise if it is different that we will be the opposition. But I firmly assure you that we were to be much more constructive than the current opposition and the SDP and the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14344	Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14345	Short of the next line. First, Mr. Lozančić. He literally told us, he says, "Good thing I'm not in your shoes." The replica is: fortunately, Mr Lozančić, that we in the SDP are not in your place and that we are not part of this parliamentary majority that has brought this country to ruin. Secondly, Mr Ajanović says: The BiH Constitution is catastrophic. I agree, it is. The April 2006 package was also catastrophic. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14346	Please, please comply with the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14347	My only question is: What are you waiting for – so a replica – that BiH does not offer a better constitution? The citizens of BiH are waiting for it. And third, there were a few MPs...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14348	Let's just listen to each other for a second.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14349	Mr. Chairman, if you allow the MP to say that others earn as much as they do...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14350	So you see that I warn them, so please, it can't be the president's fault for everything that happens in the O.R., so you see that I warn them so that you may speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14351	Yes, they listen to you well! And third thing, there's no Mr. Raguž now, so I can't replicate or come! He's talking about a credible SDP policy, and I suggest we don't talk much about who's running or running a credible policy. Here are the MPs of the SDP who were there yesterday, and today they are, and tomorrow, unlike you, I don't know how many political parties you've changed in the last decade.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14352	Dear Ambassador Raguž: Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14353	This is... an incorrect quote, so I wasn't talking about the credibility of the SDP policy, I was talking about once going out physically and changing the opinion of a particular person. So, I'm asking Mr. Bećirović to take care of it. And secondly, I haven't changed a lot of parties, I've changed two parties, but both times I wanted to keep the values that made me even involved in politics, and that's how I kept my credibility. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14354	Thank you. Ambassador Križanović had a replica, but he is also next for discussion, so I ask you to unite all of this into one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'm really giving up any replica and I'm going to try... very briefly not to spoil this one good mood that goes after the adoption of an act that will unblock many things in BiH...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14356	Please listen to each other a little bit, Denise, and the rest of you, please. JOSO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14357	...and, by all accounts, contribute to the solution to the outcome of the crisis. So, I'm not going to spread, but let me just say for the public and for my own honest conviction a few things about this. First, I heard here that today is a big day for BiH. A compromise has been reached in the BiH Parliament that will resolve important issues for BiH's future walk. And you see how much this is, let's say, a false crisis that has taken place on this road. You can see the public's interest today for what we've been discussing. The citizens of BiH have no idea what we're talking about - the Rules of Procedure. So this is... one part of a serious crisis that we, by solving this problem, are not going to touch, their essence. Secondly, we will adopt a Rules of Procedure in which there will be a lack of clarity in its application. Right at the start, right here today, we don't know how to apply it. I'm worried about that. I'm also worried that OHR is part of this solution. And dissatisfied that OHR gave up its proposal and agreed to a solution that would not have a clear application for us. You see, I am also unhappy and concerned that we will think that we have sent a message to the citizens of BiH: here you see how this domestic political force can find a compromise solution and solve even the most complex problems. They expect the citizens to applaud and to say we are satisfied, here we go, and no one asks what we have done to block almost the Council of Ministers for two months and Parliament for a good part for that. And, of course, to be fair, for me, this is already a scenario, this has happened before, and when they asked me what kind of set-up it would be, I said it would be arranged by people, don't worry about anything, everything will be fine until the first crisis that comes because there are no fundamental problems being solved. 41 For this reason I am not saying the position of the club, but here I am, at this point, my position: I cannot support such a Rules of Procedure, because we have solutions that are simply ambiguous, which can be applied in one way or another, because we do not know how we are going to apply the decisions of this Rules of Procedure at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14358	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija had a need for a replica. It's his turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14359	So, once and for all, to make it clear that we would not be accused of supporting anything or of being accused of anything that we do not support again, that at least you might know where we are and where you are. We're very sorry that this nonexistent letter of Lajcak, here it is, here it is for you, I'll copy it, so I'll give it to you, it's not a decision, it's a letter saying what the decision is if you don't make it yourself by December 1st. We're making a decision. So this is a decision waiting for you tomorrow, unless this decision is made. Okay, so, to be very clear, if you'd made a decision like this here, it would have been clear and unequivocal. She's less clear than that, but she's not unequivocal. She's precise, no one will be able to break the institutions by boycotting her. And that's all we wanted to do. And that's what it's done. And here we all agree – great, great, so don't keep accusing us of being unhappy. We are happy to come to a decision like this that will preserve possible unreasonable moves to make someone move.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14360	Please don't throw away, we're done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14361	So let me finish, Mr. Živković. I won't afford to be against you, I won't afford it for one very simple reason, because thanks to what we've been doing to you for the last 15 days, you've thrown yourself here. And thanks to what we've been doing to you for the last 15 days, we're going to have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement next week and we need to congratulate the citizens on getting it. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14362	Wait a minute, wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14363	Now you'd like me to be against it, I won't. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14364	Dear Messenger Zorić, then Kalabić, and Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14365	I'd like to replicate just for this last one. Mr. Lagumdžija, feel free to object, and we will still give you the good fortune to bring this along. Because you said you'd be happy to bring this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we'll ensure, and you're welcome to be against it. And yet, when I answered my word now, I would tell my colleagues, Denis, that some parties were called the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia, the Alliance of Communists of BiH, so he doesn't call those people. Unlike these people, I haven't changed the party, I've founded one party and I've established another with the same name, because I wasn't exactly allowed to act at a given moment... in that political framework. So, I haven't changed, I've founded both parties. And please be careful the second time you think it's bad! In fact, I'm very proud of each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14366	Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14367	Since, however, Mr. Lagumdžija showed that he was having a little fun with us today and that his first three thesis about letters and heads, or letters and decisions of the Constitution, left this last topic: you know, we were able to prevent something from breaking up. And that's when you translate: by today's decision, this Parliament has provided air in this room, the air will be, because we provide air to the Rules of Procedure. What's the big deal? You live on imagination, Mr. Lagumdžija, under imaginary fears and public threats and what, which you've been selling for the past month. About who's breaking up? The destruction of my country, the institutions that you privatized to be yours and still threaten to be someone in some way – not true, not true. You now believe that by one act, by one document, we have solved something that was not questionable at all. And when we translate, we say: we have now, and here I agree, if this rules provide for the existence of air in this room and that that air will not be after this, today's decision, will not be asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14368	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14369	Your Honor, I'd like you to give me your earlier word and I wanted to take your call. I truly welcome this gentleman from civil society and do not put these ten first discussions to Mr Lagumdžija there as something important, but this last one. And then you'll bring me on TV, and you'll say that some MPs don't answer here. Look what's in the news! You know, judge so little. So that's what I was going to suggest. And as for Mr. Lagumdžija himself, you know what, you have really great suggestions, but you could simplify this, and at first you should have said, "I'll support this, and later when we get back to you and we praise you, you say it all, "We won't." So you can turn around a little order. But we've been up and running for an hour because of what you wanted. You won't, and in the end, you will now, well, now I'm really sorry that there are no journalists, and I'd really like them to record when you press there, and I'm going to look for a list to see what you're voting for, and it's really important for me, and I really support your last position because you've accepted the reality that this is the only thing that's possible right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14370	Thank you. Next, it is not a problem at all, you will get the word; only to realize that the next member of Parliament, Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović, appeared for the discussion Dokić. Please report for the discussion if anyone else has a wish. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14371	Wrong quote. I never said I'd vote. I'm just saying I like this. Wait a minute and I said, just a minute, just a minute, relax, Slavko, so I said I wouldn't mind. And you'll get a list with great pleasure. The right to tell you, now that you're so unique in this rescue of institutions, maybe it's best that we take a nice step aside, hold back nicely, congratulate you and you go along nicely, and that's best we don't break your idyll here. I'm sorry this isn't even more specific.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14372	Don't just go out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14373	I'm just sorry this isn't more specific, and the right to tell you and this is better than you could have expected.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14374	Yeah, thanks, that, that, that was good. Ambassador-in-chief Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović has a discussion. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14375	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what we have ahead of us: the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure... and this period we have spent, I see as a lost, lost time. Why the waste of time? Because in public we have tried to express from different political options to stand behind or in front of voters and peoples to convince what I have often said that we are fighting for him and what someone here has said has no winners and won – there will be winners and winners here. I'm sorry I lost that day that I came here, and at least I'm not going to let myself take part in these big stories, thinking that it's really going in that direction, that we're not going to impose, or even accept such a thing as this high representative is going to impose. This proposal here, it has been bothering... for a few days, which has come here, is nothing but a stream, in one way or another, which Lajčak has prepared—this is here, gentlemen, presented. I see that the public has been defeated, I'm talking about the public in RS, and it's well defeated. I expect it to end up with the police just like this. I used to think that these foreigners who come and are in BiH that there are a lot of third-rate politicians, just now I see that they are professionals, that they know when something doesn't go like this, they know it well and they buy it. I don't know what the price was yesterday in Banja Luka, what it is, whether Elektroprivreda, whether, I don't know, something in privatisation, but this change has been taken. The people have been deceived, and there is no way to open their eyes to this people, lest they fall for tricks, that they are deceived for months, and that what is brought is brought to pass. I was up for it, gentlemen, that you did it and brought it to me the moment that man said, "If you don't bring it to me, I'll impose it." Do it now the next day! They wouldn't be in this position. There are a few members here who are not disputed about what has been changed: as a member there is the 21st quorum of the Kolegijum, there is no disputed member of the 25th position (3), etc., Article 6, Article 26, in fact, etc., if the chair is not present at the session, it is not the same temporary and not present, but, well, it can also work with such a change, Article 12. In Article 67(2), the quorum shall consist of most of the members elected in the House of Representatives. I see it in Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure... says: The quorum is made up of 22 MPs, provided that at least one third of the MPs from each entity are present. Gentlemen, this is what the High Representative asked for. And let's not go out to the people here and say, "We won." We didn't win! I don't see a winner here, there's a people winner, uh, beat and he lost here what he was listening to big stories and was ready absolutely for some things that could be heard here. And last time I said, "It's possible that anything in this country can happen here." Furthermore, Article 97, all decisions of both homes; please bring an end, I am talking about the Rules of Procedure... amendments and additions: all decisions of both homes are made by the majority of the votes of those present and voting, both at home. And here, you'll see in article 97 what that applies to, he's completely, completely, completely changing, decisions in the House, and here they're covering both homes. Next, Article 17 of Article 80. The College will work as a commission to make an effort within three days, so it continues, to reach agreement, if it fails to vote there and then, please, one representative from one entity assumes an obligation to end up on behalf of all MPs here 45 MPs from another entity. He takes, so, for the right of a complete one party that has its own representatives, he takes on behalf of mine to say this is okay and not to come back here to ask myself one more time and say whether or not I will. This says enough what's going to happen here. ...this change and supplementation is Lajcak's proposal, which is why there is no television here today, so it will be on television in RS and here in Sarajevo telling each other, and I fully agree with Mr Lagumdžija. When there's a Srbin missing, I know we lost. I know we are here... defeated, that we are as the High Representative said it was done. This is how it's gonna happen with the police, so don't drag us away, for months, do it tomorrow and the police. Don't hold your tension there! If it's signed on several occasions, you'll bring something like this. You take responsibility for yourself, you work and you keep doing it, so you explain it to the people, I won't do it anymore. I will be against this, against the amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14376	Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14377	Dear counterpart Jovan Mitrović, Hadža Jovan Mitrović, has the right, too, to have the right to join Mr Lagumdžija in wishes and to assume what Mara Gatara said. Mara Gatara also has an official advisor, who wants to open it to see what she predicts there. This is the assumption he has the right to speak of. But nothing happened to this. And the society that makes the opposition in every parliament today must be, and here, if the same thinkers are those who represent the opposition today, they can even take a break to reconcile their views. They're very close, it's not controversial. So, I let the assumptions be about everything, but I just want to say that this is what my esteemed colleague Hadži Jovan Mitrović was talking about – that he can assume that he can imagine, neither do I, what is going to happen, and I want to say responsibly that this didn't happen and that this doesn't stand now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14378	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadži Jovan Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14379	Mr. Kalabić, I don't suppose this. This is not out of 335 decisions who knows what decision and every decision has its own price. And this decision had its own price in one way, yesterday it was charged. I just want to know when the gentlemen of OHR will definitely get everything out of the drawers and when it will definitely be the ones who have held on to this, I don't know how many years, this people in error, and eventually they will come to terms with the high representative and the international community. So it's not an assumption, it's alive and seen, and you'll see, but, then, I'd like you to answer for what you've been holding back from the people. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14380	Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14381	I will give up the replica because I respect and respect my colleague, Hadža Mitrović, since he is the most responsible in RS for entrenched the government of Milorad Dodik. He has enthroned him as a politician in the famous Belgian assembly, as prime minister then and today, and for this reason I have an obligation not to replicate in any other direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14382	Thank you. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14383	Mr. Chairman, here's my suggestion at the beginning of this discussion to refrain from replicas after all this. I am not going to say this to you that you have no right to replicate what I am about to say, and in particular, this is a suggestion for those MPs who have agreed to this proposal or those who voted in the Expansive College for this proposal. It could have been more precise in some provisions, that's absolutely correct, but obviously we couldn't get to that precision. And if we couldn't get to that precision, would it really be good if we had gotten the information today that there was nothing we could agree on and that an MP, to be hostages, essentially, of all things that should happen in a irregular pre-region, were positively to happen in the coming period for all BiH citizens due to the lack of a Rules of Procedure on Parliament's work. In such a situation, when we couldn't agree on precise solutions, is there anything more logical than where we're not ready to build up some of the things that are in the Constitution, but to call on the Constitution? And just those who have often called on the Constitution, here is now the opportunity to have one document that is fully in line with the Constitution in this context. The second thing, someone here mentioned some of the provisions of the old Rules of Procedure... which were deleted and related to that procedure of alignment, and then the re-voting -- it was avoided. I would like to remind you that was the first Rules of Procedure since the Dayton Agreement. The Rules of Procedure that we made in '96, or '97. It has just had such a solution: after one law had no entity majority, the chairman and his deputies agree; if they agree, the law is not returned to re-determination. So I see no reason why it would now lead us in a position to have someone, in this case the chairman of any nation, be the one who might betray interest. He has responsibility, he has this responsibility, we've given him 47 responsibilities, he's taken responsibility, we've given him responsibility, all three of them, and let him bear that responsibility. I welcome such a decision, because it now, now, it, how can I say, frees us or saves us from those procedures and rounding us around some decisions. So here are the reasons, these are the key reasons why both the PDP and all PDP MPs will support this Rules of Procedure as a compromise solution to continue to address this crisis that we have come to. And let me just say: in politics, in a democratic decision, there are no winners and no losers. It is known where they are, when the winners are defeated and where we are fortunate never to get into this situation to pronounce someone a winner and to be defeated. There's different attitudes, there's different views, there's confrontations and there's compromises. Here, this solution to the Rules of Procedure is one political compromise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14384	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković had a replica. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14385	Yes, the chairman. You see, I really can't, I can't... believe, Mr. Dokić, that you will support the amendments of the Rules of Procedure because it says that three people can decide what Parliament couldn't. I can accept that you, regardless of what it has there, will support the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, but that you will accept because it has it there, it really doesn't make sense. Because look, we did, and we changed because it didn't make sense. I would like, in any other country in democratic practice this principle; if there is, here is I for voting, here I will support the Rules of Procedure, if there is anything else besides us. On the other hand, be careful, since I mentioned the winners and the winners, here we will see the next days, we will read the media and see if we can talk about the winners! Let's see, I'd like no one to be a winner, but, look, we'll see what the media is going to write, what is going to say to someone who isn't sitting here, who isn't sitting here, who won, who's lost and what's going on. I'm not happy that it's like that, I think we should look for a compromise here. But not the way we've done it now. This isn't a compromise. We've come up with a model of how no more bona fide powers, high representative. From now on, before he imposes, we will impose it on ourselves. And there's no need for him to impose anymore, so from now on we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14386	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, honourable MP Halilović. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14387	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs and others, to tell you the truth, I was a little confused at first, it was not clear to me, so I wanted to ask more in the form of a question than in the form of a discussion, because it was not clear to me – is this the chosen or the present? But now, after all these discussions, I understand that decisions are made on the basis of the number of present ones, which is fine, and if I respect all these remarks from fellow MPs, especially those from the opposition, I particularly do not like this part that gives the College to make decisions, because practically today with this Rules of Procedure of another High Representative... above Parliament, another High Representative. I feel kind of, even thought that in the first version that I'm giving up the discussion, in the second version I thought there was almost no need to discuss, but I'm still going to say a few words... I am truly pleased, although I am a public supporter, yes, and I have been advocating from the beginning that television is directly conveying these parliaments, because we are witnessing that, if I may ask only I will really be...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14388	Please keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14389	I've listened very patiently to everyone and I would ask for these three minutes to... We live here in BiH and we know perfectly how media manipulation is done and let's be honest... I am pleased that we will adopt this Rules of Procedure today and this Rules of Procedure will have my support, but I am sad that he is not the result of the compromise and the agreement, as you represent it here, but the result of the beating that stood over your head and you could have done it before December 1st. Unfortunately for you, this is not the first time, we had a situation...when the High Representative came up with that proposal on the organisation of police, when the so-called Mini Bosniak Assembly was held, where they resolutely refused, that there was no chance, that no agreement in BiH would ever be accepted in which the RS police exist, that, after a small threat from the OHR, the attitudes would be changed, wrapped up in some kind of foil, and over that it was too quietly crossed – as we did as much, we can no longer go on at this stage. All right, you guys keep working like that, and one day, I guess, we're gonna get to one at least independent media, although I don't think there's one right now. Behind these media there are very strong lobbys that very perfiduously convey party views... and, unfortunately, I'm sorry to have to speak, but here I let everyone look in the mirror, so let them hold a meeting with themselves, let them see what it all looks like. Both in one and the other, and now there would be a lot to list here. And another short sentence. Here it is being manipulated, or spoken with... the possibility that, behold, MPs from the RS do not come to the session, can hypothetically happen that Federation MPs also do not come to Parliament's session. So, theoretically, it's possible. I don't know, I'm bothered by this fact here why in advance an entity called the RS or MPs from the RS entity would be pre-marked and declared the kind of entity they are declaring. It's possible hypothetically to happen... and on the other hand. 49 And in the end, let you finally adopt this, even under the beating of the high representative, that the people no longer be afraid of war, of whiteness, of all that shall happen. Look at how pricey they are, look at how ordinary people live, so it'll be much clearer to you! And as for the fate of BiH, I am not concerned about it: when we survived it, when we survived in '92. year, this is still 2007 and there is no parallel or similarity... between these 15 years between. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14390	Thank you. The next one was registered for discussion by the honourable MP Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14391	Since the speakers are at the end, I'll be very brief. I wouldn't want to spoil the idyll, she has a folk proverb: what she hoped for, married well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14392	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14393	Also very short. I belong to that group of MPs who is... pleased with what has been done. And I think it was under the patronate, in a way, of a high representative, but I think, first of all, the result of the three of you's agreement, and the three of you, I congratulate and congratulate those three who aren't here. I think it's fair and correct to say. I know what pressure you've been exposed to... and I know how the media's been transmitting in the last month and I'm sorry they're not here right now. I think this is an opportunity to send a good message to the public of BiH, no matter how anyone understands it. I think we have a good chance of signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and a few days ago I heard in a conversation from an international man here... that we have a chance to be invited to NATO Pact in 2009, which I think is very good news and I think it's time to start.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14394	I'd like to hear from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14395	I don't know, thank you, so I think it's time to go send positive messages to the citizens and... break those fears, those mistrusts, the bad atmosphere, and I think that's what 50 of what a colleague Džaferović once said was the most needed healthy atmosphere here. I think we've come to that. Here, I'm expressing my pleasure and that's all I wanted to say and tell everyone that I want a happy weekend and to stop this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14396	Thank you. The next came Ambassador Lozančić, First Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14397	Thank you, Mr. President. I will only use this opportunity to thank first of all my colleagues in the College who, in line with the recommendations they gave at that joint session of the two Houses of Parliament in the spirit of compromise, tolerance, patience and respect together with us, together with me and together with many participants, have contributed to coming to solutions. I also thank you for supporting OHR in this way, do I think this is a better way of working than imposing decisions? And I want to invite all of us to continue to cultivate this spirit and this atmosphere in the work of this body, the highest legislative body in BiH, in the future, when we make other decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14398	Thank you. If it's not there, if there's no one... to report more for the debate, I'm closing the debate. Please make a call; I've concluded the debate. I asked if there was anyone to discuss, but if you... insist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14399	Mr. Chairman, since I've already turned my attention that maybe the current isn't working, so there's no misunderstanding, we're restrained. And now we're going to vote, so that you, there you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-11-30-1.u14400	Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 27, "against" four, "abstained", seven, with a sufficient entity majority – I agree that we have adopted the Amendment and Supplement of the Rules of Procedure... The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. 51... conclude the 17th session and please bear in mind that the extension of the session, or scheduled 18th session, will be 12. The seat's finished at 17.20.
