ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14747	Let's continue yesterday's closed debate. I have to apologize for myself. I mean, yesterday was a rough day. I've been a little indisposed, but you've helped me with all that. And in order to finish this session's agenda, and we're on the 14th item of the agenda, I'm going to limit the debate on the agenda points, where I'm going to think we won't be able to finish the work that's ahead of us today. We have a notice from the service that at 17 o'clock there is a power outage in Parliament, but we will try to milk it to work... at least by 18 o'clock. And I would ask everyone who participates in the discussion not to deviate from the agenda, to refrain from unnecessary comments and replicas, in order to finish today's agenda. We suspended yesterday's debate on the Amendment Law proposal and the Supplements to the Excise Act in BiH. For the time being, I have two conclusions that have come from the debate, one Mr Zorić, who, with his consent, reformed, more precisely, only corrected in the small part, and said: An Interresor Working Group is formed, consisting of two representatives of the Council of Ministers, one representative of the Directorate for indirect taxation and six members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, three from each home, with the task of proposing amendments and supplementing the Law on Excises of BiH and instructing them in parliamentary procedure, not far from 1. 3. In 2008. And I have a second conclusion that Mr. Bajazit Jašarević proposed: It is up to the Council of Ministers to draft and deliver within 60 days a proposal for a law on the Fiscal Council, in order to create assumptions for the abolition of the powers of the Management Board of Direct Taxation and, more importantly, the establishment of an institution that will create assumptions for the creation of economic policy, fiscal policy and more realistic budget planning and more realistic distribution of income between all levels of government. I read this to you to realize that we have two conclusions that we will vote on after the law has been declared. In the event that the law passes, there is no point in voting on the conclusions; in the event that the law does not pass, it is necessary to vote on these conclusions. Since I didn't close, please don't throw it away. So wait till I finish thinking, and then ask for a word and say what you meant by that. 2 I have not finished the debate, and I have informed the honourable MP Lijanović. I call on all those who want to continue to discuss this subject to apply for debate and according to what I said at the beginning are acting. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14748	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, were discussed at yesterday's session on the work of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, what would be better: whether the commission was working or not? I think it's better that this commission works and not just her, but all of us who can... make a contribution to repairing something in this country, to fix it. The Commission has initiated this law, a very important law that can fix in many areas the situation in our country. I sometimes even start to worry about whether a good future of BiH is possible, but again when I see the unity of certain...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14749	Come on, please, let go of the Commission story, come on, the agenda point is the Act on Excises of BiH. Focus on the Law on Excises of BiH, leave the work of this commission, leave BiH's future at another point in the agenda. Please focus on the agenda points.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14750	I thank you, Chairman, for your suggestions. So there seems to be a great unity in BiH that this law does not change, and this is how optimistic it works, because every unity is positive, it just needs to be extended to other aspects. Because for ten years now, we have been subsidising the poisoning of BiH citizens with significant numbers of money, and then we still have to spend additionally on the treatment of these people to save them from this poisoning and then suffer from many who are naturally ill and do not have the opportunity to treat themselves. The example of this is: I went to the store this morning and bought a pack of cigarettes from a German manufacturer that costs us 2 KM. And this same pack of cigarettes at the manufacturer's factory costs 5 KM more than in BiH, so depending on some type, even more than 5 KM. So I bought a box of Swiss producers, so I also informed myself that the situation is such that one box at the manufacturer's factory costs more than 5 KM than we do. So I bought a box of manufacturers that was mentioned yesterday, Rovinj tobacco factory, where in BiH that box costs 2 KM, and in a circle of factory costs 4 KM. So in BiH between 2 and 5 KM, smoking is subsidized, and now that we calculate that the average smoker smokes a daily box or twice 2 to 5 KM, here we can take some 3.5 KM average, that's 7 KM a day for 30 days. So somewhere around 200 KM we subsidize a smoker who, after a long period of time, will burden our health funds that 3 will have to pay for his treatment. On the other hand, the average minimum pension in BiH is less than the subsidy we give to one smoker. I don't think that's good. Also, farmers – if we want to follow EU examples – receive 3% or 5% of the budget in BiH, and in the EU they get 43% of the budget to encourage agriculture. Well, if we don't even look at the EU, we can look at neighbouring countries. The Republic of Croatia plans to single out a billion and a half marks for agricultural and rural development next year, and in BiH these incentives will be ten times smaller, as there is clearly no means of promoting agriculture since these funds are invested in smoking subsidies. If we want healthy society, if we want the future of all of us, the future of our children, we think that this Act on Excises BiH needs to be adopted urgently, stop subsidising smoking in this country and start subsidising production, start subsidising new jobs and all the other needs we need. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14751	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14752	If I were mean and I wasn't, then I'd ask my colleague Jerko to repeat this to us, because I didn't understand anything he wanted. Does he want those pensioners who have 200 KM to buy 7 KM cigarettes or, God Bog, 6 euros. So these German cigarettes, according to him, should cost six euros as well as in Germany. Well, that's a good thing that Germany wants to do for us at a lower price than imagine that it exports it at 4 km, so that the excise charge should be paid, so that VAT is paid – how much pensioners would have to pay for it. I didn't realize it, I realized that you should take as much money from the citizens and give to the meat industries. I figured it out. And yesterday there was a story about how someone doesn't like or like or don't mind. You see how much we have, how much we have earned in these last elections for the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. Imagine if Jerko had gone to the Parliament as far away as Croatia would have gotten from us. She'd run away from us if he'd taken this knowledge and this thinking to the Republic of Croatia to the Parliament, so they'd have run away for ten more diggers. But it's a good thing he didn't go to the Parliament and get us some RH in economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14753	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14754	Here, I understand that we can't all know and my goal wasn't to expose ourselves to taking... the money of individuals, and giving it to some industries, and I wasn't saying it in that direction, but we were about not to forgive the tax on what other countries don't forgive. Because we don't have cigarettes cheap because someone's selling us cigarettes cheaply. We've got cigarettes cheap because we've forgiven the tax on those cigarettes. The cost of costing German cigarettes is in Germany and BiH – there is a difference almost negligible. But people follow noble goals, taxing what is harmful to human health, thus helping him consume less and save on health care. One example that the Englez are doing, although they have 10 KM cigarettes more expensive than we are, in fact, not cigarettes but taxes on cigarettes – they are thinking about introducing a smoking registration to actually reduce smoking, because it is not costing them again how much money they spend on development. And with us, for example, colleague Azra said yesterday: excise duties on cigarettes are 59%, and on one salary in BiH which is hard to earn is a much bigger contribution and tax. So it's cheaper to smoke than to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14755	Is it necessary? Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14756	Thank you. I would just like to correct one wrong piece of information that Mr. Lijanović presented here, and he uses data in percentages in relation to investment in agriculture when it comes to the EU, and he talks about amounts when he talks about neighbouring countries. It is clear that BiH does not stand out enough for agriculture, however, expressed as a percentage -- in the same or almost the same ratio as the neighbouring countries. And when he compares the data, then it takes comparatively to make sure... I don't confuse the public, so things can be clearer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14757	Thank you. If there are no more reports, please put before you the amendments tabled by Ambassador Vinko Zorić. Dear Ambassador Jukić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14758	So I'm going to say a few things that, if this law were to be passed, that would happen, that is, the consequences of the adoption of this law would be as follows. I mean, first of all, Article 3. 5 Oil derivatives. Here, a significant increase in excise duties on all derivatives is proposed, which will result in an increase in prices in the retail sales of all derivatives, and will again result in a chain increase of almost all prices, as there is a cost of fuel price in any product and service. For the past month or two... we have witnessed in BiH a significant increase in prices of almost all products, especially those that are necessary and those who have the least and a lot of savings, and yet they have to buy. And with such a move and a new increase in fuel prices, we would make our contribution to further increasing almost all prices. I think only this fact is sufficient reason for those who have suggested this to give up. Because I ask the question: How are they, how are we all going to get together – we have all the responsibility if this goes through – to explain to the citizens of BiH and to all, here we are, too, that we have passed a regulation that directly increases the prices of oil and oil derivatives, and thus, I said, indirectly and almost all other products, the truth is not to that end. But still, we're increasing. I have hardly ever spoken in my discussions about the competencies of entities and BiH, but this law should also be seen well on these responsibilities. True, the entities, from this part, as part of fiscal policy, have transferred to the Directorate for indirect taxation, and it has not given us the green light and confirmation that we need this and we can do it this way at this time, and so I think what I said is enough argument, and it seems to me, and most importantly, that we should give up on this. The main intention of one commission, including others, and all those who have proposed this, I think it is correct and it is necessary to examine the excise duties in general, but all excise duties in BiH. I would even agree with the vast majority who advocated that excise duties generally increase on luxury, but fuel is not a luxury. Fuel is a commodity that, if derivatives are taken, perhaps all goods are spent in the largest quantity in BiH, not only in BiH, and therefore this non-selective approach I think is harmful and should not work like this. Of course, it would be good and useful if one such proposal had a basis for a single impact analysis of what it would be, what we can expect in sizes, in quantities, in some changes, I don't know, in the consumption of certain products, if prices increase significantly, etc. There's nothing here, and that's why this document is missing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14759	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14760	Correction of the incorrect quote by counterpart Nanić. I said that the Republic of Croatia plans to allocate a billion and a half stamps in the coming year to foster agriculture, while in BiH 150 million will be allocated in total for agriculture. This is ten times less although BiH's agriculture is much more underdeveloped than Croatia's agriculture, although we have ratified the CEFTA agreement here, which we have liberalised the market to the end, and our agriculture will be destroyed because it will be in an unequal match, and we will have the opportunity to correct it in the next period. And the replica of my colleague Jukić. 6 This law has been in the process for a very long time. These proposals were to be tabled as amendments in the commission phase and to correct this law, not by pronunciating certain items, to try to question the adoption of this very important law for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14761	Dear Ambassador Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14762	I do not practice communicating, or participating in work in this domain, especially not replicating. But here, since I've already been called, I'll say. It's not that I haven't thought about how, in what way to fix this law, but I thought it and now I don't think it's a way to fix it with an amendment, because I'm against this kind of approach and this kind of way of passing such an important and extensive law. So, I don't have that capacity and I admit that I can't, I don't have time to do a real analysis that would be the basis for this kind of law and for this root and big change, and that's why I didn't participate in the said, mention the way, and that's my relationship to this and this way of passing such an important and comprehensive law that has implications for the life of all the citizens in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14763	Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14764	I'm giving up the replica. I have something to say, but I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14765	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14766	Well, I'm sorry we lost that rhythm and dynamic debate about this law. I will only remind you: yesterday as in several discussions in the past few years, I have pointed to the problem of inadequate law in this segment relating to excise duties. We've been discussing this for a few years. We keep getting some dissatisfaction. So, there is a problem somewhere, and it is true that what my colleague Jukić is saying is that there is a need for more comprehensive analysis and more comprehensive laws and proposals that my colleague Zorić has highlighted, but I am afraid that we will again, for a time, have a debate here or someone's proposal on excise duties on amendments to the Excise Act, and we will have the same kind of discussion again. Someone's going to make one kind of argument, someone else, and we're all right. I, to tell you the truth, appreciate that the Council of Ministers is so harshly against this law, I think there would be a few people there today who would argue with this proposal and I will return you to my proposal yesterday. We adopt as absurd a solution as possible, even in this first step and in this home, to encourage someone to finally approach, even if they realize that nothing needs to be changed through analysis and that everything is wonderful and wonderful. Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14767	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the amandman and the honourable MP, Vink Zorić. Please place the amendments in surrender and I don't have to read them specifically. I call upon the House to declare the amandman I.. You can vote now! "For" four, "against" 17, "abstained" 14. The amendment I didn't get support. We are voting on amandman ii of Honorary Member Vink Zorić. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Just to say, "for" 17, "against" 13, "abstained" 15. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14768	Well, here, no matter how this law ends, my colleague warned me, because I expect it to be an inert vote anyway. This law requires that excise duty be abolished, this amendment, and I will demand a re-vote to abolish the excise duty on lye oil. So, if that's the message, mostly to the Croatian population, which is heated on the vine oil, that it still has to pay toll and excise duty on, I'd say, the energy that's heating up, then okay, but I'm asking that we re-enact this amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14769	Thank you. We vote on amandman II.. Please highlight the amendments in particular in the debate, so that we do not have to reopen the debate on these amendments. I ask the House to re-enact amandman ii to the honourable MP Zorić. You can vote now! "For" 13, "against" 10, "abstained" 12. We don't have enough entity majority. The college, acting as a commission, found that we had no consent. We're going to the second round of voting on this amendment. Everyone's voting. The votes "against" shall be counted. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! “For” 13, “against” 11, “abstained” 11. There were no two-thirds "against" from any entity. I find that Amendment II has been adopted. We move to a vote on amandman III.. I ask the House to prepare to vote on amandman III.. 8 You Can Vote Now! "For" 11, "against" 12, "abstained" 12. The amendment didn't get the required majority. We move to a vote on amandman IV of Honorary MP Vink Zorić. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! ‘For’ six, ‘against’ 13, ‘restricted’ 13. This amendment has not received the required majority either. We move to a vote on the Amendment Law proposal and the Supplements to the Excise Act in BiH, with the amendment adopted. We're voting on an integral text. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 18, "against" 14, "abstained" three, without enough entity majority. As a commission, he worked and found that Kolegijum had no consent and that we were moving on to the second round of voting. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! At the request of the SDA MPs' club, I repeat this vote. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. We vote in the second round. Everyone votes and counts the votes "against". Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 20, "against" 15, there was no "abstained". Since the RS entity was 11 "against", the law did not go through. We're going to the next item on the agenda. I'm asking the motions to conclude if they're staying at their conclusions? You're staying. We vote first on the conclusion of the honourable MP Zorić. An Interresor Working Group is formed, consisting of two representatives of the Council of Ministers, one representative of the Administrative Board for indirect taxation and six members of the Parliamentary Skopje of BiH, three from each home, with the task of proposing amendments and supplementing the Law on Excises of BiH and refer them to the parliamentary procedure, until 1.3.2008. I ask the House to prepare to vote on the conclusion. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" four, "abstained" six, with a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We move to a vote on the conclusion of the honourable MP Bajazit Jašarević. And I'll read it again. It is up to the Council of Ministers to draw up and deliver within 60 days the proposal for a Law on the Fiscal Council in order to create assumptions for the abolition of the powers of the Management Board 9 of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and, more importantly, the establishment of an institution that will create assumptions for the creation of economic policy, fiscal policy and more realistic budget planning and more realistic distribution of income between all levels of government. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 20, "against" nine, "abstained" six, insufficient entity majority. The House will be notified within legal time of what the College has decided as a commission. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda. I want you to know that we haven't received a report from our commission on the Wine and Cancer Act yet, so when we get it, we're going to put it back on the agenda to make that statement. Now we move to the 16th item of the agenda: Ad.16. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity The promoter is Ambassador Ekrem Ajanović. With the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the bill was submitted in a procedure on 24 May 2007. The promoter requested that a reduced procedure be considered, in accordance with Article 126. Since he did not get the necessary majority – the procedure was rejected at the 14th session – and the law went into regular procedure, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the principles on 8 October 2007. The Joint Committee on Human Rights is in charge. Opinion on principles was delivered on 6 November 2007. The competent commission, as you have seen, has not accepted the principles of the proposed law. We have a situation to decide on the opinion of the committee responsible, in accordance with Rule 107(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House and I warn Members: if the House accepts the opinion of our commission, the proposed law is considered rejected. I'm opening a debate on the opinion of the committee in charge. Is there a need for a bill promoter to explain? Here you are, Reverend Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14771	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the debate on this law has been going on for a long time, in fact, he's long in the procedure and, in my opinion, in one different circumstances politically than they are today and that is why I feel the need to say a few words about the Commission's report, and thus the law itself. Personally, I believe that the report should be rejected or returned to the Commission for reconsideration, for the following reasons: there are several facts that speak in favour of the adoption of this law 10, I will list them briefly. First of all, the human and civilization need for this law to exist, then constitutional obligation, international obligation, international practice and the compliance of our laws with European practice. About the human and civilization need to pass this law, I wouldn't speak a word of it. I leave it to every single person to judge whether or not such a law is necessary!? About the constitutional obligation, I'll only say two words. I will remind MPs of Article II of the BiH Constitution that we are constantly swearing to while it is in force to respect it. In Article II, point 3 is replaced by the following: A catalogue of the right, a line (b) states explicitly that no one can be tormented, that no one can treat anyone inhumanely, or that no one can be humiliated. Is there more torture than psychological torture? Is there more pain than mental pain? If the victim gets mental pain, because someone wants to prove that his lost, his dead, his missing, in fact that it wasn't done, that it wasn't, that he wasn't suffering one great pain from those other people. So our obligation is constitutional to protect people from being mentally tortured and not mentally harassed, not having any mental pain. Here in this room, I guess, everyone has seen in the present time as many such humiliating scenes as this, according to, after all, to the victim. As far as international obligations are concerned, I would say, since I am in law and numbered, from which the convention came – in fact, this law has only been passed on our obligation to these conventions and I would point out that we cannot, as Parliament of the Convention, ratify them, but not implement them. Therefore, it is our obligation to implement these conventions, and in all conventions, both the Holocaust and the Convention on Genocide and the Convention on Crime against Humanity, consistent with their platforms, says that the obligation of every signatory to carry out this act is to turn it into a crime. So the denial of these many things, genocide, crimes against humanity or the Holocaust, must be turned into a criminal offence in our legislation. The fourth thing that leads us to adopt this law is international practice. It is listed here that 11 countries in the European Union have passed the law of this kind. They passed the law of this kind and opted for the law, and these are all the countries where genocide took place except Switzerland. So, Switzerland has passed a criminal act like this, although there has been no genocide in it. And finally, I have to say that we all swear to go to Europe, that we all look forward when we initialled the agreement on Europe and, therefore, I will remind you of only one obligation, constitutional obligation, as well, that both BiH and entities must fit into the European legal system. And finally, four or five notes. So there is a constitutional basis, even, I would say constitutional obligation to pass such a law. This law does not require any jurisdiction of the entity, the consent of the entity to adopt this law. No one has submitted any amendments to this law that has been in the process for a long time. No party here in this House has in its 11 genocide programmes. Because if she did, she would be banned from running for parliament. If there aren't any parties in her program of genocide ideas, then it's safe, it's concluded that this party can't even be against this law to ban the denial of genocide. The law is in line with European practice. It meets all the criteria of making legal projects, as they teach us at seminars, so, among other things, I have a seminar here where it was held about making certain laws, a seminar on draft review laws and analysis held for the Constitutional Legal Commission of the OSCE. This law requires no financial resources. It has a legal, but also a moral, human, civilizational component, and it's aimed at those who are unwitting, and it's not directed against those who are human, who are human. We're left with the fact, so we can't hide here as individuals behind the party, behind the entity, behind the politics, or behind this. We're left with the fact that we think about it ourselves and say whether we're in favour of passing a law like this or not, so it's every person's personal commitment. I therefore suggest that we reject, that is, better said to return this law to this commission, which bears the title of the Commission for Human Rights, etc. And, in the end, ethics and I can't understand that such a commission with that name can protect the offenders, not protect the victim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14772	Thank you. You probably made a random mistake. The amendments are not submitted until after the first reading, so it has not yet been a phase in which amendments to this law are submitted. And now... he has come forward with the replica of Honourable Ambassador Ahmetović. Is there a replica or a discussion with you? Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14773	I didn't even want to talk for long. I'm gonna use these three minutes to say what I mean. We are all witnesses of both war and wartime and all that is happening in BiH. So, I think that as responsible people in this home representing the BiH state, we should send a clear message about what we think about this matter being treated by this law, and so today I have no dilemma that this will go away in this House, because I don't see why anyone would be against it. So, all I want is my colleague Ajanović. So, I don't think he said this on purpose, but since I am chairing the Commission, the Commission is working on the Rules of Procedure... because this is the Joint Commission of both Houses of Parliament and I will only read the last part of the Report. The proposed principles of the bill did not receive the necessary support from the Serbian people, which is necessary, in accordance with Article 49(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and of Article 43 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14774	Thank you. I ask the MPs to take their seats to continue our discussion. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14775	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, a little bit of the agenda will cause any emotion of my own, but, as far as this agenda is concerned, I would never dispute the law and the bill of law if it were complete. As legalists, we accepted the International Court of Justice ruling in The Hague and we said genocide happened in Srebrenica and that it was focused on Srebrenica. It must never be denied. To spread this story to all BiH, without the UN's highest legislative body's verdict, firstly, it is not correct, historically not justified, it has not been proved, it has not been legally ruled. Since the law is in the first stage and in the first reading, in any case, it should be more complete, so the law should say: who says RS is a genocide, 20 years in prison. Who says the RS police are genocide, 20 years in prison, etc. But exactly the respected professor when he said the victims, then I have to say it's not easy for me to tell, because I was in five Bosniak camps for 44 months, and the war lasted 42. Which means if I survived and, well, I'm wearing this head, with severe physical health consequences. I was in Srebrenica at the opening of the Memorial Centre, with the best intention of honoring innocent victims, but are we just going to focus on one part of BiH, when every place has died and I have never sought balance in the amount of crimes committed, nor compared anything to Srebrenica, but I have sought balance in the amount of justice, justice for victims that have never been open to debate in any parliament, neither entity nor this one here. One day we'll have to go through some law and some convention. Everything comes from that day and day when we speak openly, and we don't talk, because we don't trust each other, so simply the simplest laws, because we haven't resolved the war past that's a prerequisite for knowing the truth, and the truth is a prerequisite for justice for sacrifice, and justice is again a prerequisite for reconciliation which is an individual act, because no one can impose on me in the law that I love someone if I don't. So, I'm asking the professor, since he's in the first stage of reading, in the first phase of the bill's proposal, to make him comprehensive. There's no man who'll deny it wasn't genocide in Srebrenica. The court ruled, we are legalists, we accept, not what we will or will not, but we will not let the story be repeated over and over again that no one is carrying any sanctions or consequences, that RS is all genocide, meaning that the Serb people are genocide, but no one will say it publicly, but hides behind various flossules and I don't know any other historical facts that come from, I would say, partners of some from Belgrade, ala Nataša Kandić. There's no such story in BiH. If you want us to respect each other, and we want to understand each other, to respect ourselves, because this is our country and let's build it on what happened here. I wasn't the victim that I wanted to be or my colleagues, no matter what nationality, Bošnjak, Hrvat. We were lucky to survive. Unfortunately, no one has ever talked about it. What position are these people in? What they have today, and I don't know a lot of other things, that I don't open up now that whole bunch of these events, because we'll never... we'll never agree on historical facts, no matter what side anyone looks at them. There will always be three truths here, these national dominants, another ten from various organisations, international lobbyists, etc., but some history tells what happened, but it cannot be with three members of the law just focus on this and just put into focus events in Srebrenica that you, professors, have extended to the whole of BiH. That's not how it happened. There's no judgment anywhere. We can't accept that, but we'll accept the verdict of the Court that ruled it out and that's how it was, and no one can deny it, but we won't allow anyone 13 more, no matter who it was, what positions, to say that RS is a genocide. Where's that proven? Where was that sentencing? If it's in the head of a man and a politician's judgment, it's his individual right. He has the right to say what he wants. So please, give it for peace, stability, reconciliation, some understanding, to clarify what is possible to achieve and that this whole law is not just three members, but that normally at some amendment stage it will experience, so it might be a new bill, because I didn't want to go with the amendments. It was inconclusive for me to react immediately in this way, in three members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14776	Wait a minute. You'll all get a replica. I would like to invite everyone in Parliament to choose words, to treat each other with respect and to treat such a subject with due respect. Therefore, you will all receive the replica. However, I will take a break if I see this discussion heading in the direction that we do not finish today's agenda. Therefore, please, replica in order. Dear MP Hadžiahmetović, then honourable MP Izetbegović, honourable MP Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14777	I, the chairman, fully agree with your approach, and it would have been good if you had joined it sooner, perhaps. I listened with attention to my colleague Jovičić and looked at the papers in front of me, thinking that he might have some other law ahead of him, because here, if the International Court of Justice is mentioned, the same is mentioned by the International Military Tribunal established by the London Agreement and the Ninber Process, etc., therefore, entirely identical. There are neither the RS nor the Federation, or much less BiH than there are France, Belgium and other European countries. I beg you, don't spread your experiences! I happen to look at you, because you encouraged me with your discussion and debate, and then I made an insight into the law, seeing that you're spreading experiences on the subject, which is why you're cheating here on a completely different kind of debate. Please look at the law and tell us if there is anywhere here and the verdicts of The Hague tribunal and Nataša Kandić and anything other than what it says here. I'm only saying this for one reason that if we're going to spread experiences beyond what will cause you, I understand your emotions, but you understand some other emotions, but it has nothing to do with the law. I had to answer only so much, that the discussion was really completely beyond the proposal that was completely beyond the proposal that was in front of me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14778	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14779	This law does not speak of the RS. I don't know what a colleague recognizes the RS, so he's angry. This is about the victims of the Holocaust, genocide, inhumane treatment, and you were the victim. This is about you. 14 This only says that we must not say that the Hrvat did not experience what they experienced in Blyburg, that the Srbin did not experience in Jasenovac, that the Bošnjak did not experience what they had experienced in Srebrenica and throughout BiH. This is a law against murderers, and for victims, and this law forbids denial, minimisation of it. I don't know what you feel called the RS. Please don't be against this law. If he's unfinished, if there's anything to add, if there's anything to change, let's do it, but let's respect what happened to these people. Let's not shut our mouths and say it hasn't happened to them, to the citizens of this country, to the peoples of this country in the last hundred years. So, I ask you to be human and uphold the principles of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14780	Thank you. Dear MP Ajanović had a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14781	After these words, I might not be replicating anything, if it wasn't for my friend who was with me the night we were building this country and we were creating her as independent. It's all said. The law is short and clear and accurately precise that not even the victim of another who has been accused, who has been denied and accused of being unable to be damaged and the law does not say anywhere that if I, and look at the television, the newspaper and everything, every day you will hear that someone says there was a genocide in Prijedor, another says there was a genocide in Sarajevo, the third says was genocide in Tuzla. It has nothing to do with this law, because it's only true here about what the Court of Justice has decided, meaning as the largest body, and you, Slavko, have admitted that there is even no mention of Srebrenica in the law. The law is universal. That means, well, here we are, when there's been a trial in Ninberg, when it's proven holocaust, so now you have malicious statesmen, you have malicious quasi-scientists, you have people who prove what happened from 41 to 45 in Auschwitz that it didn't happen. The law only has that intention. So what's falsified by the greatest because that's exactly what it says, it's a number of cases, which is the International Court of Justice or the Court of Justice in Ninberg or the world that created as an international order, that law universally refers only to that. And therefore, this law is nowhere, as you can see, nowhere has RS been mentioned and God Bog this law can regulate the existence or absence of RS. Well, we all know that can't happen without constitutional change and with consent, among other things, a representative of the Serb people. So, please, I personally think that this law is general and that it should be supported and that it should be supported because it is precise and short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14782	Thank you. Before you, an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14783	I thank you and will be forgiven by the president of my party's club just one minute to say that no one in front of the Serb people has anything against the law regarding this matter. However, Professor Ajanović, if we're going to talk about common victims, if we're going to talk about all the victims in BiH, then we're going to make the law together. No one has ever put any initiative in this 15 parliament to solve this problem in this way. To solve a problem only on, to say the initiatives of a nation, in connection with this law, are unacceptable to us. For that reason, we think it would be good if we all sat down together and discussed this very painful subject. Therefore, please do not say that the Serbian people are against it, to minimise it, that is to minimise genocide, etc., but this is a difficult issue for all of us and it is not the way you suggested that we solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14784	Correction of the wrong allegation. Dear Representative Ajanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14785	That, my dear colleague, my disciple, doesn't matter, after all. I have not said in my own speech that against this law is the Serbian people, I have even pointed out that all parties, and here there are parties that are mostly Srbin, here I will not say that it is just your party, there are parties, but I have said that these parties do not have in all the programmes that do not. If you take a stenogram, you will see that I am not in my presentation of any people, nor have I offended any man.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14786	Excuse me, break ten minutes at SNSD request. [[PAUZA]] ...if they want to take longer breaks, they should say so. Club bosses warn MPs from their clubs that it's a ten-minute break and we need to start working. The SNSD club asked for a ten-minute break. Club chief, do you have an obligation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14788	The respected presidency, respected colleagues, to try to be practical and, when it comes to this matter, out of responsibility to it, the SNSD Club has clearly said on several occasions that it wants this law and wants to see it adopted in this parliament. Since one part of our commission's report was read to lawmakers, the other is not very important and clearly says that during the debate on the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, the crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity found that the bill had a good intention and that the Commissioners in principle supported it as an idea, but it is necessary to do the text of the bill itself and wait for the opinion of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. It is on the trail of what the chairman said that we want to participate in the full drafting of this law and include all these institutions that have something to say, and 16 especially the NGO and get one common good and quality law. Don't let anyone think we don't want to be involved in bringing him in. The fact is, the suggestion itself may have come at some awkward time. I think we should all kind of respect this now and give up these replicas and get back to the part of the job and get it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14789	Dear Ambassador Džaferović has the answer to this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14790	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think that when we talk about this very important matter that we should approach cold heads and on the trail of what SNSD Club President Drago Kalabić was talking about: that all of us in BiH want to have this law, that no one in BiH should have anything against one of these laws. I propose that we return this law to the Commission today, that everyone who needs to be involved be included and then here – and the Council of Ministers, including the non-governmental sector – be involved here with Parliament......with one law. Niko one should fear this law. This is a law that should simply in the future sanction those who demean, minimise, deny holocaust, genocide and any other crime against humanity and international humanitarian law, which minimise, dispute crimes that are, in fact, the values that are protected by international humanitarian law and which are included in our criminal laws that we have in BiH, as the Criminal Law of BiH, above all. It is not spoken here – I will not repeat the discussions of the president of my club, then the president of the Party for BiH – so this is where the concepts are spoken, categories are spoken of and the law can only be passed. That is why I believe that the most correct thing would be in this situation, it would be a very bad message from this Parliament, if we had adopted a negative report by this committee under this law today, the law would have fallen in Parliament, and that would be a terrible bad message that would have gone away from the Bosnian-Herzegovina Parliament and, on the basis of this, I suggest that today Parliament would not unanimously accept the report of this commission and that the matter would return to the Commission and act the way I just said it, as Mr Kalabić pointed out in his proposal and his position. Maybe it wouldn't be bad just to say what's the deadline for the Commission to come out here. Actually, deadlines are common. And some, given the specificity of matter and situation, we can set a deadline of a month, two months, neither do I, here's how we deal here. I'm not going to talk any further about this subject so I don't further complicate the situation. I have limited myself to this strictly formal character of this issue because, I say, it is in all our best interests in BiH and BiH as a state to finally get the text of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14791	Dear Ambassador Kadrić, then Raguž, and Halilović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14792	Thank you. So let me just say it again. The proposal for this law bears the name of the bill on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval – so it lists - holocausts, crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity. Therefore, the title of the law covers everything. For these reasons, we really need to approach this law seriously. I'm convinced there wouldn't be any dilemmas here, that Dr. Ajanović doesn't care who is going to be the legislator of this law. It is important that we really accept this law for at least two reasons. First, there are international conventions that treat the area, which BiH has accepted. And another additional reason, of course, we don't need to hide from: the International Court of Justice's verdict in The Hague on the crime of genocide that took place in Srebrenica. For these reasons, I believe that, indeed, it is good to involve representatives of all peoples and representatives of national minorities and NGOs here to adopt this law, in such a way to fulfil our obligation to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14793	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14794	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I signed up for the debate, I'm going to cut it short now, because there were a couple of, I'd say, constructive proposals, and here I welcome this pause and the way the SNSD Club reacted. I think it's a way to try on what's the point of this bill and I wouldn't in any way question either the right of MPs or Mr. Ajanović's intensity in the most positive sense. I think this effort deserves it. Now we can talk about whether there's still some stuff in here that needs to be added to the law, that's why I called. I also believe that I support what Mr. Džaferović has suggested that this should be refused and that it should be given space for an amendment-quality phase, as well as for the addition of the content of this law and for the possibility for all to make a quality contribution to BiH and this parliament have one such law. It's a sign and an expression of our relationship to these important issues, and we don't need anyone to deny it. But here is one thing that should also not be bypassed; in addition to those mentioned, the Holocaust, genocide, crime against humanity, I would have to respect, given BiH's international obligations and membership in international institutions, I will remind you that in 2006, the Council of Europe, or the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, adopted a resolution on the condemnation of crimes committed during the communist totalitarian system, and they are also not small. Surely this chapter and the way in which it is done by international acts and resolution in that roof house for the protection of human rights and respect for democracy deserves to be found in this bill, given that, in the explanation, the Proposer calls for 18 international obligations of BiH and lists some of them what to do, but I think that, if we want to fully regulate this issue, it means having one whole relationship, the minimum is that we are not making one selection but that we are calling for international obligations and international practice in democratic countries that are already parliaments over 20 countries,...in those years, they entered into the commitment of the same resolution, but in Europe, so that there is room for us to supplement this law. For me, he's positive and I support him, I'm going to support the debate and I'm going to make my contribution to the amendment phase and let's have one real step in this area to show that we can have a civilised relationship with all the victims who've suffered what they've suffered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14795	Dear Ambassador Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14796	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will say very briefly that I think today Parliament should reject the Commission's report and return this to a serious advance, because the promoter obviously had a good intention, but I think he made several systemic mistakes that could be corrected at this amendment stage. Namely, he takes a holocaust, genocide and crime against humanity, and therefore, regardless of what puts into question here and doesn't mention in any word any entity or region, or city, or individual, etc., this in a certain way, however, can be a little bit set up as if it looks provocative. What I would like to say, not to be longer, not to spread the discussion, I think that today should be accepted, returned to the Commission and, in the amendment phase, I will argue that at least what I am going to do is that this law includes why the court in The Hague was in charge. I will only remind you that the Court of Justice in The Hague, in addition to genocide and crimes against humanity, was responsible for two more crimes, and these are serious violations of the Geneva Convention and violations of the laws and customs of war. If this law, for example, were to be complemented by these two more and in the amendment phase with some other details that would be a little more precise and banning all of this because of the court's jurisdiction in The Hague, then I think there would be no problem with the adoption of the complete law, and then no one here would feel particularly less or more called, than anyone would find themselves in that law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14797	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. Excuse me, dear representative Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14798	Mr. Chairman, I join these final discussions. A certain small correction: given the very sensitive question but, it seems to me, and one consensus that no one in this House in 19 and, hopefully, in all of our country wants to protect those who have committed, have done it in this area or outside our country, so it is my suggestion that Mr. Ajanović withdraws his law, given the stated findings that he is not complete and that if we could accept him and that we today do not plead on the Commission's report, that there is no vote, and that the Kolegijum determines a wider working group, in which Mr. Ajanović will be, is my suggestion, or in which one of the legal experts on all three sides would be, I mean by representatives of all three nations, who understand this area well. We have also heard suggestions for certain enlargements and then to go with a new proposal that could be the majority in this House in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14799	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14800	Well, here, on the trail of our efforts to come up with a quality solution, since... the Commission report is just saying what we're talking about. So exactly what we're talking about today and what's more or less eloquent about what's necessary and what's needed in all the discussions. So I think that this report is, for us, impossible to refuse, because it is just saying what we want and I think that beyond that, it should follow the conclusion that this same commission, or on the trail of what Mr Dokić was talking about, is within a reasonable time, that the Commission is a carrier and that within a time limit, according to these guidelines that she has already set, and that we will confirm to the conclusions, within 60 days, that I do not know whether this is a good time, I said it, but a certain reasonable deadline within which we agree to come out with the text of the law, using both this text and all others and respecting exactly what the Commission has written here. This is the only reason we can accept the report, because the Commission has not done anything the opposite, it has just proposed what we insist on: it is precisely the conclusion that within this time limit, with these guidelines and with what has been said today to come to this complete text of the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14801	Dear Ambassador Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14802	Well, here, usually when a man thinks we've brought the matter to an end, or we didn't get a good understanding during this whole discussion and trying to find solutions, we are now in a situation where the legislator of this law, so our MP, or a member of the Party for BiH, puts himself in a position to withdraw the law, puts us in a position to give up the concept in some way, and through the debate we heard, at least I felt, that this law remains as the basis, which we will, through the discussion, through the inclusion of the Council of Ministers, by obtaining the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, the NGO and other clubs, come to a more complete, i.e., a wider legislative project that would be acceptable to everyone. These proposals were made by Mr Dokić, so here's how Mr Kalabić also, etc. ...they're not heading towards what we discussed. So, we are prepared, those who support this text of the law, ready to accept both the remarks and suggestions made here, to accept the opinion of a number of Commission members, etc. And this law goes back to the 20 commission stages and it can be added to all that, here's what Martin was talking about, etc. And don't question this initiative now. I'm really asking you to go back to those original, original variations, so returns, return to the commission phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14803	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14804	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to the co-chairing of Belkić, I don't think he is – and that is my feeling, let me, perhaps I am wrong – understood neither Mr. Džaferović's message, nor my message here and many others who have discussed it. I think the least important thing here is who the carrier is, if we want to get to one law, and what it's going to revolve around, I think it's the least important. My proposal was to withdraw this proposal, for this very reason that we all stand behind the proposal and the law. When I say we're all standing, then I mean all three peoples sitting in this House, not one party, not any people, but... a party. I don't think anyone needs to score on this, that we need to get to something that we're all gonna stick to. It's on one side. On the other hand, here are Mr. Halilović and Mr. Raguž's suggestions. If we were to include that in this law, then you'd have more than just the law, which in itself points to the fact that it's better to go with, here, a new variant, for which this will be the basis, of course. That is why I said in my proposal: it is mandatory for Mr Ajanović, if this proposal is adopted. I do not insist, nor do I have the right, of course, to insist that Mr Ajanović be in that commission, and therefore this proposal will be the basis for making this new, new variant. In this way we would overcome here at the beginning of a very sensitive and emotionally tense situation, we would overcome it, create a condition that indeed, here, cold, hungry heads, as someone said, we would approach the whole process of passing this law and in that time we would all be free of any prejudice and, finally, once again, which is very important, if we get to this law, this should be the law of all of us, not one party or one individual. That was my suggestion, and not for any other reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14805	Dear MP Hadžiahmetović and Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14806	Here we are discussing the procedural aspects of this. I assume that at least that part of the content, at this stage, is necessary to make a decision, but in some ways the content itself is finished. I am on the line of thought... which we have already heard in terms and return perhaps to the commission stage, especially respecting the arguments made by fellow Dokić. It doesn't have to be a law that will come to us in the next phase here with the authority of any party, any of us individually. Let this proposal come to us as a proposal from the Commission, as a proposal from 21 of this Commission. So,... when this committee, respecting all of this, and especially what might have not been the case, delivers a proposal here, which we will agree on, let it be the Commission's proposal. Here, it doesn't have to be this one anymore, but let it be done. And in that sense, I propose that we end the procedural matters or by failing to adopt the Commission's report, so go back to this commission or, possibly, by prior agreement to return to the Commission who will put this and something else on the table and put some proposal, so that it be a proposal from the Commission, or a proposal from all of us. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14807	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović, you have a need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14808	I was talking about possible bad messages that this parliament could possibly send today, depending on which path it chooses, when it comes to this law. So, there's no one here in the Parlement against, at least I haven't heard one discussion, the need to regulate this matter by the law of our country. I only ask colleagues who have a different approach or a view of how it should be done, how it should come to this, that the Parament of BiH today does not send an ugly message. We are doing business in a situation where we have a negative report from this commission, and we have, no matter how anyone acts and votes in the Commission, people have explained it here, we have a negative report from this committee on a problem that I am, and here I am not going to talk again, even though I am constantly tempted to talk about it, I have read this law. There's no question in this law, people, and I don't think anyone has anything against what's written in this law. This law defines a holocaust, this law defines genocide, this law defines other crimes and values, crimes against values that are protected by international law, and I don't think either of us has anything to do with what's stated as a definition in this law and which is potentially listed as sanctions against those who refer to these values in a way that should not be applied. We if today, therefore, leave this negative report to the Commission or...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14809	It's about opinion, not report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14810	...or support the opinion, it's, I mean, this is now, so this is the procedure, I mean, I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure. If we support the Commission report today – so either we leave it or we support it – we send a message that this law is falling, this law is falling and we are sending a message against it to the public. That's why I think if we voted against the Commission's report today, all of us here, we didn't vote for the law, we didn't vote for the law, we voted for the need to pass the law. What law it will be, we will decide all of us through this commission, with the help of the government's, non-governmental 22 sectors, experts, and this law will come here to Parliament. That kind of approach. Then it's possible, therefore, to build on other aspects, we'll see what happens... in the end, when it comes to that law. For this reason, I ask you to vote against the Commission's report. Voting against the Commission's negative report, we are actually voting for the need to pass the law in BiH and no one is against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14811	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14812	Here to get involved means me in discussion and replicas, because simply my cry here behind this pay phone doesn't help and then raise questions which, in my opinion, are an incorrect allegation. We might have sent another message, which is that one man, one people, can't seek or suggest, in this way, things that concern all of us, that one people here can't say that he's a victim without everyone else here. I think by refusing the Report, or by accepting the opinion of our commission, we will give a message to the BiH community, both in pain and in the weight of that pain. We will give a message here, and we suggest that we all sit together on that same committee, with all the NGOs, with everyone who wants to make this law together, and I guarantee you that everyone wants to, but together to make this law, to propose it within a time limit that the Parliamentary Assembly sets, within a reasonable period. Since it's December the month, since it's going to be January, months that won't be too much work, it's somewhere in May and that's a reasonable deadline. And we can all pass one law together, and this, which is Professor. Ajanović, for good purposes, will be a good intention for all of us and one of the working materials that will be considered because I fear he will insist that the principles of the law cannot be changed, I fear that they will not be able, in the regular procedure, to adequately fix that material. Let's call everyone and this parliament today says it's working material and there's still some work material coming in and together this commission then proposes, proposes the law. Here, I think that way we can work it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14813	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14814	So here we heard that a people took the right to create a single project legally, etc. This is about the initiative of one party's MPs and nothing more. Everything else went through 23 procedures. The composition of the commission, the composition of this parliament is such that all the peoples in BiH can say this. So this was about the initiative of an MP, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and our assessment, that this country should have one of these civilizations, not to mention... And I don't see what's controversial about getting it back on the Commission and then doing it the way we discussed it here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14815	Thank you. I respect the objection. Dear Ambassador Novaković was the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14816	You see, we, Mr. Chairman and colleagues, are having a debate on the law, and at least we are having a debate on the Commission Report or on the reasons why the Commission did this job, in the way it did. I think this way, in fact, we don't run this business in the right direction, or the right direction. I don't see why it would be a problem if someone were against some provisions in this law. Really, I don't see what the problem is! Does this mean that someone is against qualifications or maybe someone is against, like, this extensive, say, or a big space for eight days to three years, so the court will then be valid for eight days or three years, etc. So it doesn't mean that all the provisions of this law are correct from the point of view of the court that will later make decisions. But I didn't, I didn't... I got up to talk about the law, I didn't even talk until now. I, I think what I said here for the first time – that this law deserves a completely different approach. We had one commission composed of political parties, representatives of political parties who worked on a project of the Law on the Determination of Truth and which is now stopped somewhere, no matter where and no matter why. But I think that this kind of project deserved such a procedure, so one serious debate with the NGO, one serious debate on the entire territory of this country with all NGOs, which would result in an adequate text of legislation that would paint or, let's say, ease the pain of everyone in the whole territory, and not formally, would not be formally copied, rewritten, text, text... one, one declaration as it was done in this case. So... I've been thinking about a completely different approach to this law, and that approach is either possible or possible in two ways. So it is possible in the same way as Džaferović suggests, but then the Commission would have to ask for approval to break all deadlines, etc., because then it is quite another, quite another model. I think it's an easier model proposed by fellow Dokić. It means that this law, whether ours, whether it be extended this commission, whether we give it the exact guidelines in which it will work, comes to text in the next period, which means that it will violate the deadlines set in the Rules of Procedure. We know that in advance, then. I do because of the violation of these deadlines... more of this solution, although I have no objection to this solution either, if it will be done in a way, therefore, to extend not only this commission but also to expand with other people of that profession etc., to conduct public debates and that this process takes some period to get to the right solution. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14817	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14818	This to me, this looks like an innkeeper-free inn. Here people... certain things... set up, and neglecting one thing that I'm legal and legitimate, however you like, a bill promoter, however you like, but a bill promoter. Secondly, I didn't come to Parliament a year ago, she's over 20 years old. In those 20 years, I've been in various parliaments 17 times. So I know how to pass the law, and I know how to... I'd like to say here that maybe a two or three sessions ago, discussing a discussion, said that in my personality... I also feel like a Musliman and a Bošnjak, like a Evropljanin. Accept that I propose this as a Evropljanin, means not as a Bošnjak. And secondly, the party can't propose the law, so I guess that's what you all need to be clear about. One can propose law and the Council of Ministers can propose. That's exactly what the Constitution says who's proposing the law. So this is my bill. That's one thing. What's an esteemed professor? Dokić suggested that I be proposed by the Constitutional Commission of the House of Nations, explaining that it would be easier for it to establish a constitutional basis, because it is impossible not to establish the constitutional basis of this law, impossible. The other thing is that we unprofessionally do our jobs, individuals in some commissions unprofessionally, because when we are in the Constitutional Legal Commission, I must, if I propose kalabić law, I must be objective, and if it is in accordance with the Constitution, I vote that there is a constitutional basis, and then I don't have to, after that, when it comes to a... discussion, when it comes, that I vote for that law. So, I'm not an unserious MP, I'm a serious MP, I'm a man and everything, I'm a lot of years old, I have a lot of experience. Secondly, I have addressed all relevant people to whom I should address. I went into the legislative, legislative and legal... this now formed new institution of ours. With them from, let's say, the first to the last member of the law I've cracked, and we've come to the conclusion that there's no falinka in this law, there's no falinka. This law is only a matter of political will, as in the end, and all other laws. It's a matter of political will. So it's not whether the law is well done, it's not well done. Keep going. But there's one thing, I'm not so naive that I'm going to say now come on, I'm giving up the law. Don't expect me to. I was in the ministry and I wrote Terzić and Professor Halilović on one thing that they must not agree and state the end of the institution, because the institution could operate under the Constitution and the transitional provisions that exist. They agreed that, in order to create an atmosphere, they accepted that the institution would be shut down and that institution had not been established for five years and would not be established for the next five years. That's how it is. If I gave up the law, this law would never see the light of day again. If the commission were to form, she could. Yeah, it's an old communist trick, to tell you the truth, form a commission... The other thing is that it has the right and the obligation, and the obligation, I give whatever hand I want, I will be glad, whether it will be my Slavuj, whether it will be Sefer 25 Halilović, whether it will be Raguž, to me... it is not a problem. I'm not, I'm not exhausting myself in being just the legislator of the law, but sitting down with this committee and finding out what it is in this law that needs to be rejected. Well, these are, if it is, if someone's been reading this law, but really, if it's a dent.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14819	Please, time only.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14820	Here, just this one more sentence, I'm done. If he's in the middle of this, it's an obligation from every convention we've adopted here. It's got to flow. Secondly, it was received by the European Commission, from this,...I beg your pardon, excuse me, just two seconds here and the story is over, the story is over. In this new Rules of Procedure, it is said literally: When the legislator is a legislator, the opinion of the Directorate for European Integration on the harmonisation of the bill with EU legislation is supplied by the College of the House. In this case he did not obtain the College of the House but... but it was received and said that he was in line and that twelve, eleven of these EU countries actually have the same law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14821	Thank you. It's an old Rules of Procedure. We'll be working on it. Dear Ambassador Dokić, pa Halilović, and Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14822	My fellow Members and fellow Members, here, we have heard several very similar approaches and attempts to, as I say, best end this agenda today. And always, if there's a good will, then you don't have to stick to it strictly, so let's say, these business procedures, but there doesn't seem to be a good will to do that. Then we'll have to respect strictly the business procedure. This business procedure says that today we are pleading on the Commission's position... on human rights, etc., not to count to the end, and after that vote, Mr Ajanović knows well that the work on this law can be done. Here, more debaters wanted to give their hand in the sense that the work on this bill would not be completed, but it seems to not be understood. So, in this context, my suggestion was to withdraw but immediately with the obligation and to vote the conclusion that it was working further on this law where this would be the basis. If that's not the case, then there's a vote on the Commission's report and the next step can be, if we agree, a conclusion in which we will determine who will go with the new law. In order to be very precise, here is my suggestion to the president of the SNSD Club, in which I also participate, whose member I am, to ask for a break to agree on the precise conclusion of 26 which we will vote or reject, which we will propose to Parliament after we have finished voting on......on the Commission's opinion. Let me be precise now and stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14823	Thank you. Please refrain from the comments coming out. I know it's a replica but you're not up, there are replicas before you and Halilović and Kalabić, so Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14824	I didn't think I'd get a chance, I wouldn't have the need... to discuss this, but, look, I'm going to say it one more time. I really do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14825	Is it a discussion or is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14826	Replica, replica prof. Ajanovica, very short. I really think, because I think there are fallinkes here because the replica is on what's prof. Ajanović said he doesn't have any fakes. There are falinka here, it should be returned to work, return to the Commission and we can all work this bill together because if we didn't do so and if we didn't extend to why the International Court was in charge, then we would have a situation that we could, without any problem, celebrate some who were convicted of war crimes, for example, convicted of serious violations of the Convention, Geneva Convention, or violation of the Law of War, or... yes, keep in mind that this international law is the first time in history of rape as a war crime. I think it deserves to be included in this law and, on the other hand, if this didn't spread, then one significant number of victims wouldn't be a victim. That is why it is my proposal that this law be returned to the Commission to work and to come back to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14827	Dear Ambassador Kalabić pa Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14828	Here, I'll warn you one more time. I avoided talking about the law, here's my colleague Halilović, who was now making a comment on the law itself. So, probably others could, if we came to the debate itself, the law has only three members; so it's not a dispute that right now, it's not a legal project of 200 or 300 members, so we can't do some kind of quick pre-composition, if we want to talk about technical sense. 27 But what is the problem with us? It represents a problem for us to refuse the Commission's report, which we all agree with, which suggests we do what we intend to do. People suggest it to us, and that's what we're gonna do. After all, they wrote it to us, and we just need to accept it, because it comes out of discussion that no one can bring it or interpret it as someone's wish or intent to do it the opposite. Here, colleague Hadžiahmetović spoke in that direction and on that trail, and I find that acceptable. So it's not absolutely against the will to do it differently. It is simply out of discussion that what the Commission has done and it is not correct to vote against the Commission's Report and then propose the same conclusion which is essentially the same as what the Commission is asking for. I think we're very close. And now about some tiny details, I think we should get a little bit more correct about that procedure and find a deal, and that's how it works.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14829	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14830	Yeah, if we were 15-20 minutes ago, right after the break, we were close... and I think we're close now, but I'd ask Mr. Dokić not to answer, because he's gonna break this whole story we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14831	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14832	Here, I just need to remind you: I had a suggestion. So, just fellow Kalabić, the Commission has not proposed anything to us. So we don't have a proposal from the Commission. The Commission found that the principles of the proposed law were not accepted and that there is an argument here. So, we do not have a standstill in the Commission's report, possibly on what, as a proposal from the Commission, we would refer in our decision. I, the chairman, suggest that if there is a business opportunity to return this to the Commission. So, here, we can also make a statement on the report, so it's obvious, and then we go through the procedure, we can possibly put something on the proposal, after the Commission's report has been made. But here I suggest - if there is any possibility more, I'm just trying to find a way out – to get this back to the Commission, that the Commission and all the members of the Commission are really taking this seriously as one of the universal values. I'm more, I'm sorry to mention it here, we mention it, especially I was sorry to mention the entities here or any people. These are universal values. That what... is missing here, and here we have heard on several occasions, possibly adding, supplement and let it come to us as a proposal from the Commission. If anyone for these or those reasons is bothered by any authority or connection to any nation, nation, etc., I ask you to try to end all of this in that direction. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14833	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14834	So, I mean, we, we seem to persist in our stubbornness,...so we'll meet at the dead end. I therefore propose: that we make one conclusion which will be based on what the Commission has said, in this sense, that this bill has a good intention and that, in principle, the members of the Commission support it as an idea but that it is necessary to complete the text of the proposal itself, and to request the opinion of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, etc., to give it, for example, a 60-day deadline, and then pass through the procedure. This proposal from this committee is put to a vote. If it passes, then there's no voting on the law, but this conclusion remains, so the subject continues, is it? If the Commission report falls, then we vote on the law. It's past the law, we have this conclusion again. So, let's go through the procedure, let's make this all right with this conclusion... and correct it and put it in the tracks to continue the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14835	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14836	I'm just saying two sentences, I really didn't mean to answer any more, but not because Mr Ahmetović called me not to answer. I just called to ask him in public to tell everyone what discussion he felt today that I wanted to break this up. I wouldn't, I wouldn't be so sensitive if it wasn't for a very sensitive subject, and since I'm deeply convinced that I've tried from the very beginning to the end to find an exit variant, this really hit me. And so I ask him in front of everyone to point to that part of my discussion that looked like I wanted to break the whole thing down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14837	Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14838	You asked Mr. Ajanović to withdraw the proposal. I only ask you to withdraw your proposal for Mr. Ajanović to withdraw his proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14839	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14840	I'm glad that... this is the way we can make a deal. We are now moving on to a statement on the opinion of our commission, and after that on the conclusions stemming from this 29 debate. I ask you to prepare for the vote. The vote just means the opinion of our committee, the opinion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 11, "against" 20, "restricted" three. This opinion has not been supported and it is returning to our commission. The guidelines will be provided by our commission from the transcript of this session today, and I think that we can complete this agenda point, and the Commission will consider whether it is necessary to ask for an extension of its work, and we can adopt it here at the House at the request of the Commission. Are we in the mood to move on or take a short break? Should we keep working? Of course. The 17th item of the agenda is: Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law on Police Structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposers: MPs Drago Kalabić and Branko Dokić, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission The proposal for this law was submitted in the procedure on 31 August 2007. It's a regular procedure. On 8 October, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis. The Joint Defence and Security Commission is in charge. The committee's opinion was delivered on 18 October 2007. The committee in charge did not accept the principles of the bill. So we have a situation like at the previous point. We are deciding on the opinion of the committee responsible, in accordance with Rule 107(2) of the Rules of Procedure, and I am opening the debate. Who's calling for a hearing? Wait a minute, first thing we're going to do is ask if the promoter has a need to pick up first. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14842	Here, distinguished colleagues, one law that has caused great attention in BiH. Me and my colleague Dokić are proposing and we have simply offered one proposal and that for the first time in Parliament something formalised has been discussed by the leaders of political parties and representatives of the international community and, I don't know, who at formal and informal meetings. But we have made an effort to make one law that we believe meets our current needs in terms of three European principles, in terms of what is required in police reform and thus to shorten all these possible deadlines and... it is in the process and in terms of its ability to accept it in order to meet what is required of us around these reform requirements. 30 I would not particularly explain, given that everyone is sufficiently familiar and... that this topic has been a top theme in BiH over the past few months and that we simply invite MPs to take advantage of this opportunity and to adopt such an important law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14843	Thank you. First came Ambassador Zorić, so here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14844	Well, you could've given Džaferović because he's the rapporteur for the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14845	No problem, if you don't mind. Dear Ambassador Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14846	Here, I'll be very brief, I'll be very brief. ... Of course, I don't mean to criticize the services that have been ticking, or Mr. Zrn, who signed this report, or opinion. It states here that six members of the Joint Committee are for reasons of refusal, etc. It led to something and two other things. I, for example, didn't do it for any other reason, I did it for a whole third reason, but here it doesn't say here and it doesn't have to write, but it doesn't need to be taxed like this, but the reasons for the rejection are you and you, not how much... I'm not... for that type of writing as much as it is who, to count. So there were two reasons on this committee. Maybe, here's what I didn't say at all, and I didn't vote against the principles of this law for any other reason.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14847	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14848	So, we have been in BiH for months or years and we have been having a debate and today I am going to enter a circle of those who are not going to have a big debate and I plead that Parliament is not doing it because things are familiar. But I will - I couldn't, Mr. Belkić - I have to say this. So this commission gave a negative report on this law, so it did not accept this law by the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Political agreements are under way in BiH on the current most pressing issue, and two days ago in Banja Luka, political party leaders agreed to move into the process of forming expert groups to draft exactly these laws on the principles... of 31 that... agree, bearing in mind three EU principles. For this reason, I think that today we should support the Commission's report and thus bring this law down here in Parliament, and we are only waiting for a serious debate on these issues after the laws of experts arrive. That includes Brussels,... The EU, included OHR, all of us in BiH, so I don't think there's any need to waste time. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14849	Thank you. I have a registered honourable MP, Izetbegović, and Dokić. Was that wrong or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14850	So I'm giving up the discussion. ... I think Šefik said...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14851	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to underline what my colleague Kalabić has already pointed out in his short opening section that our intention was to introduce this process to Parliament, to relieve the party leaders of these parties who make up this parliamentary majority here, to expand the circle of people who are discussing this... important issue, because you know well that we have been in stalemated about European integration, precisely because of this, and that the initiative for this one law actually came from one of our joint meetings with representatives of the European Commission who visited Sarajevo somewhere in the other half of July this year when, come on, it was suggested that MPs should be more involved when it comes to this matter and MPs could react in this way to propose the law. It's clear to me the political climate that was then and which is now. Here, I welcome her, and I'm glad it came to what happened, but I answered, first of all, to point out something that shouldn't be happening in the future. I don't see any reason why the Constitutional Commission gave a negative opinion under this law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And also defense and defense and security. 32 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14855	Please just listen to each other a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14856	So every commission that was considering material, it had to go from material, not from their assumption of what would be if and if behind it was one option, two options, more options, therefore, independent of that material, especially that this is not a sensitive issue like... a question that we were just discussing. But I'm just saying this as a reminder for the future: they had the right to vote as they voted and, as far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to convince you about it – how good this is or not good. The MPs, by their conscience and their sense of what this material represents, will make known about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14857	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14858	Well, I sometimes like to discuss it unusually. We're going to be procedurally done, but here's the need to really remind you of something. We're 31.8. – for us this recent past was full of charges of different species – we in one period, therefore, at the end of August and early September received a proposal for a law on a very important issue around which the whole world was focused on BiH. And so much, let me welcome the efforts of our colleagues in Parliament to try to overcome, at that time, that one atmosphere. What's the suggestion? I'm not talking about the content here. We will, of course, plead. In the meantime, a lot of new things have happened, etc., because we are fast on this strong dynamic, but in any case, to welcome that anyone from this Parliament, in the period of such an atmosphere and such focus on police reform and the need for reform, has managed to make some draft legislation and deliver it to us in parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14859	Thank you. Honorable co-chairman Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14860	Surely this is not in any way in line with the Rules of Procedure, but it is not against the Rules of Procedure. So I invite you all to rationality, so rationality. I can no longer explain to myself the 33 needs of people to repeat a hundred times the same thing that all MPs know. So we know exactly, and what this is is a legal project, we know exactly if there was a meeting, we know exactly that some action plan and there's no need, there's really no need. Let's waste our time rationally.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14861	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14862	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have received material, read material and disagreed with material as a material, from simple: your proposal is now to put this material to a vote and vote? And what are my remarks? If it opened, I'd put, in the second part of the debate, amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14863	Thank you. If someone's gone, I'm closing the debate and we're voting on the opinion of our commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! What happens now when there's no entity majority?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14864	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14865	"For" 20, "against" nine, "abstained" five, but not enough entity majority. It's not complicated, it's not complicated. So, Dom will be notified when the College is in a relationship, then. We suggest we finish the next point on the Code Proposal. We can consider it a legal project. After that, we don't have any legal projects anymore and we need to take a break from... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The wine law is in line in the meantime. As soon as he gets to the agenda, he'll be put in. One break of 15 minutes so we can all rest a little, and then we can take a break at 14 hours. 34 Now we move to the 18th point, Ad. 18. Proposal for a Code of Conduct for MPs and delegates – Proposer: Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14868	I'm going to say a few sentences in front of this committee. So, let me say that this is an idea that was also in Parliament's last session. Here's to mention those who have contributed to this final text of the proposal code. So thanks to the ideas of the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the OSCE, we have come to this stage so that we can consider this code and I think that, therefore, this co-operation of Parliament through the non-governmental sector is one way to implement the idea of citizens' participation in the adoption of projects in this Parliament, and I think that this is one side that should be treated in the future. Therefore, I call on this Parliament to adopt this code, given that in the procedure... we have sent a letter to all MPs therefore to deliver any, in the summer break – therefore, there was enough time for any changes – suggestion of delivery, delivery to this commission and I must conclude that there was no such remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14869	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14870	The word has been respected by President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14871	Here, I just want to discuss in that direction, and I want to say hello to bringing this. Well, here, let me say something like the law, so we'll go in that procedure and this is the first reading. And everyone will have the right to amend to this code at this moment give and enable this commission... I don't think the bill's wrong, but it's far from perfect. I think that in some parts of the Law on conflict of interest and objections that I have – and the Kolegijum, when I consulted, supported me in this – refers not only to MPs but to the order and code 35 conduct in this room. And that includes both employees and guests and... On the other hand, nothing is said that perhaps we should pay attention... and ban the emphasis of religious membership through wardrobe etc., etc. So it's far from perfect. I support a good law, but I will have a certain amendment in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14872	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14873	Chairman, so I wouldn't be detailing this too much, because I'm going to submit certain amendments to the bill. Generally, I welcome... the establishment of such a document and for our sakes, but also what he said. I'd like some attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14874	Thank you. Attention!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14875	So, and because of us... to whom this applies but, of course, and because of all those who from time to time are participating and participating in the work of this Parliament. What I'm saying is that reading this document seems to me that the text, or context, of this proposal is somewhat unbalanced in certain parts. Starting with the fact that there are some things that are prescribed here for MPs, or elected officials who, I say, come into collegiate with someone, with the sense of every normal human being that, regardless of what we are elected MPs, delegates or any kind of officials, we also have a sense of self-control, self-esteem and personal dignity, so that I believe that we should have this in mind and not prescribe certain things that are meant to be in every normal person, educated, in some mature years, where we all find ourselves, are understood. Like, I don't know, I don't know, you can't talk at a session unless it's necessary, provided they don't interfere with the course of the session. I mean, to determine the quantum of communication and the way among parliamentarians, I think it's a little inadmissible and, after all, it might be unserious. I guess we're all aware of how we can communicate at the time of the session. ... also, I think there are certain things that are unclearly defined and that concern conflict of interest. So what is personal, what is the general interest of us discussing and deciding on certain things in this House, but of course, in amendments I will deliver,... and that the document leaves an impression only on the obligations that we have as elected officials, and I think that one of the basic norms is right that if you have obligations, then you have both right and vice versa; if you have rights, you have obligations. And I'm going to give just one example here, that we, for example, are one member here in the 36 document says that we, as elected officials, are obliged to treat an employee with respect, which, of course, does not mention some mutual situation, because we know, at least I'm coming from myself, that you treat with respect those who treat you the same way. So I think it's a little unbalanced and it should either be modified or... done and upgraded. But, I say, these are some... individual remarks. I will submit my remarks in the form of an amendment and in the second reading I will make a more detailed statement about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14876	Thank you. We have the following registered in this order: Honorable MP Kadrić, pa Ivanković, Dolić, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14877	I'm thanking you. So this code of conduct of MPs and delegates should really be adopted as a document. Just to point out, three years ago, the National Council in Republika Srpska brought the Code of Conduct, therefore, this is one relaxing good thing. And, therefore, in all of this, when we brought the Code of Conduct to the Council of Peoples, NGOs, the Centres of Civil Initiatives helped us to do so, as well as to develop this code of conduct. Therefore, even when we are working in this amendment phase, I expect that we will really come up with a quality, good act, and, therefore, this initiative and this proposal should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14878	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ivanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14879	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, it's good to have rules, it's good to have a code. I would point only to two things, and we have that in the Law of Conflict of Interest, where bans are trying to achieve some effect. And I don't think that's good. It is good that by publicising our activities we achieve the best effects, because we here must have political responsibility, and the public assesses us according to our political responsibility. So, let's say, in Article 12. In the application of its powers, the elected officials will not benefit themselves from any direct or indirect advantage, nor shall they favour individuals and groups of individuals, with the aim of obtaining direct or indirect benefits. 37 So every law that we bring here is meant for target groups that we want to provide direct or indirect benefit. We would, in practice, restrict the adoption of most laws. They should not bring anything when it comes to farmers, they should not bring anything when it comes to pensioners or any other group of individuals. And I think the promoter should take a little bit of care of this, and I'm going to ask the amendments at the commission stage to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14880	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14881	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we are therefore witnessing a drastic devaluation of the reputation and dignity of the elected official in BiH, both with the citizens and the public. Most elected officials do not deserve so much devaluation, and especially not the function of the elected official deserves it. To be honest, there are, of course, those elected officials who, by their conduct, are destroying the reputation and dignity of the elected official and are then, as usual, generalised in public to all MPs and officials. Unfortunately, in the public and in the citizens, the opinion that politicians and elected officials are criminals, unemployed or freelenders, which offends me as a man and an MP and, on the other hand, faces some of the behaviors of elected officials, can find understanding of such an opinion. This proposal for a code, I'd say, finally prescribes some rules or etiquette on the behaviour of elected officials in the performance of their functions. I certainly welcome the adoption of the Code, and I believe that prescribing the rules of conduct, if anything, will seriousise elected officials in the performance of the job or function they have been elected to. I did not take advantage of the possibility to submit my proposals within the time limit, because I felt that from several proposals that were in circulation, there are enough material from several proposals to come up with the quality text of the code. The task force has done most of it, but there are several things that deserve to be more clearly regulated or, if anything, better underlined. In the text of the proposal for a code, I think we should do a little better by doing a chapter entitled Introduction, because as it's written there's no finished thought and grammar structure. I suppose and believe that if we adopt the code that we have an honest intention to apply it and control its application. If so, then this code lacks a definition of who it is that follows and warns of a violation of the code and who can initiate the liability procedure for the violation of the code. I think the code should more clearly underline the relationship of the elected official to BiH institutions and the representation of BiH institutions towards the public and abroad. Also, I think the elected official should be more directly obliged to provide accurate information on the property, family and professional status, because it is indeed public functions. 38 Of course, if there is a need, and I will in this part of the amendment act... make my contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14882	Thank you. We've got two more on file. Dear Ambassador Novaković, then Erić, and then we'd take a break by 13 hours, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14883	Mr. Chairman, since we are talking today about the principles of this law, I must say that I support the principles on which this code of conduct is based and to express my position that I am not to define this code by defining the behaviour of anyone other than MPs and delegates. Namely, the behaviour of employees towards MPs and delegates etc. is defined by other acts. I do not think there is a need for such a thing to be introduced here, and I see this law as part of a package of laws that will define the rights and obligations of MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14884	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14885	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, in order not to take much time, I would like to support just the previous speakers, and what we need and the pressure of public opinion and all, means that we should adopt this code and pray for the future, until further consideration, i.e. In the second reading, direct all your remarks, and therefore I think that we ourselves will have... certainly more success in working for ourselves, and especially because of NGOs and all others who actually think that we don't want to bring it, that we won't because of some of our privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14886	Dear Member of the Republic of Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14887	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I must say this is a very important document for a parliament. It encourages... that the lower levels before us were brought, although it should have been the opposite, that I consider it a significant contribution to the adoption of this code, in addition to 39 NGOs and... institutes, despite those which the President of the Commission has mentioned, and I just wanted to say one remark that we should consider at this amendment stage. It refers to Article 24. I am of the opinion that... in the possible violations of the codes of conduct of elected officials, Parliament should have a special commission, headed by which it would be common for it to be president of the commission or chair of the commission – to be representative of the opposition. I mean, it's in democratic countries or in parliaments, in principle, the principle that applies in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14888	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. And I call on the House to plead on a proposal for a code of conduct for MPs and delegates in the first reading. Stand by. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" one, "abstained" was not. I find that this code of conduct has been adopted. And I'm taking a break until 13 o'clock, but by 13 o'clock, and after that, we need to get back to work. [[PAUZA]] Places. We'll start working, hopefully the others will join, please, and at the gallery. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council of BiH – Proposer: Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14891	What, you didn't register right away? I only have an objection to Mr. Finci... because it seems to me that there is little conflict of interest. And second, is there, I guess, another Jevrej in Bosnia other than Jakob Finci? He doesn't have to sit on all the chairs. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14892	All I can say is that all procedures are respected and if that conflict had occurred, someone would have guessed by now. However, we may have a reserve, but now we're voting on a odluka. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. You can vote. Now! "For" 21, "against" was not, "abstained" four, sufficient majority. I find that the decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH has been adopted. Moving to the 20th item of the agenda: Ad.20. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of members in the Ad hoc Commission on the appointment of three Ombudsmans in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina You have received a proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of members of the Ad hoc panel for the selection of the Ombudsman. In the Ad hoc commission from this house, we have proposed to the honourable MPs Nik 41 Lozančić, Azra Hadžiahmetović and Draga Kalabić, and the House of Peoples will appoint its three members. We have information that this has already been done by the House of Peoples and you have seen that in conclusion we have given special tasks for this commission to make the selection process more effective. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14894	Gentlemen, the chairman of the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished guests, one attempt to appoint BiH's Ombudsman, I would say, has failed for a reason because the appointment procedure was not at the level of importance that this institution has in BiH. The debate on the election of the Ombudsman has shown that behind the personal choice of people at the ombudsman's posts there is no doubt political lobbys and that the story of the Ombudsman's institution, as an independent institution, is indeed a story for small children. In a new attempt to appoint the Ombudsman, BiH seems to be making a major mistake in the Ad hoc Commission on the appointment of the Ombudsman, we are proposing three candidates from the parliamentary majority ahead of this home. I personally have nothing against colleagues who are candidates for members of this committee, but I don't think that makes any sense, because that proves to me how well the Ombudsman institution is and the choice of the Ombudsman is politically colored. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible that both the non-governmental sector and the opposition are not involved in the procedure for the election of the Ombudsman in any way. If we accept that members of the Ad hoc panel for the election of the Ombudsman are exclusively in the order of the ruling coalition, we will not be able to convince anyone that tomorrow we will not have an ombudsman colored by the colors of the ruling coalition. Woe to one who trusts in protecting the rights of such ombudsmen. The Ombudsmans are an independent institution in the service of the protection of citizens' rights and if we approach the election of the Ombudsman so that it is the exclusive right of the ruling coalition, with a three-party national interest, then it is not and will not be an institution of citizens but an institution that protects the rights of the authorities. So, I, for three committee members in front of this house, propose one member from the ruling coalition and opposition in this home and one member appointed, for example, by the Helsinki Committee in BiH. I think this proposal is in the capacity of the ombudsmen's institution and the place it really deserves. Of course, decisions that the parliamentary majority wants can also be made here, and this approach can be ignored, but, certainly, it will come back to all tomorrow and will be most affected by citizens who see the protectors of their human rights in the Ombudsman Institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14895	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If he doesn't answer, I'm closing the argument. And we are voting on the conclusion on the appointment of members to the Ad hoc Commission on the appointment of three Ombudsmans to the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution in BiH. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. 42 You can vote. Now! "For" 20, "against" two, "restricted" five, sufficient majority to conclude. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda: Ad.21. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people On 16 October 2007, the Communications Regulatory Agency provided a ranking of candidates for a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board of the Bosniak Peoples. The candidate's biographies were also delivered. On 1 November of the current year, the Commission for Transport and Communications submitted its opinion on the ranking list. The Commission supported the candidate ranking and proposed to the House that, in accordance with Article 26(1) of the Law on Public TV Service, a member of the Management Board from the candidate rankings entered the shortlist. On the ranking list are the following candidates: 1. Ahmed Žilić, 2. Zija Dizdarević, 3. Muhamed Mujakić, 4. Šaćir Filandra. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14897	Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting the importance of this institution and the need to make a choice today, I cannot say, at the very least, that I am delighted with the proposals submitted by the candidates. Respecting the fact that the place is applied and what it's looking for, the rank list that's been made, I see it prefers a man, I'm talking about this first candidate, who I'm not sure has much to do with the work he's got to do. It's, first of all, about a man who has an attorney's office, and that, in my knowledge, is a very successful office, through which the craft is not smaller than a million marks, and that, apart from the work he's doing, I'm not even sure he's interested in being able to deal successfully with the latter. At a time when we're looking for... people who are professionally committed, who, let's say, have that capacity, and at this point they're even unemployed or out of work, we're here trying to find a solution where we're going to give this man, with these characteristics, the advantage. I have to say it for the reason that the position to choose on, I think, requires a different capacity and a different profile of candidates. In this variant, I'm not sure this is acceptable and we'll send a good message if we suggest, accept, or support a solution like this. I think for this place; wasn't it, I don't know how the procedure went, I guess it's legal for the form itself; but I think 43 that there was a different profile of a man, with different characteristics, and that we would send a better message to the public, and also to the media, because it's people who are going to do the job that we should choose today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14898	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14899	Here, I don't know, I'm doing business using the possibility of correcting the wrong quote, even though I don't know how it would, perhaps more like an explanation. Is... if the candidate of any of them were on the list, had or had no interest – he would not have applied for a public competition. I just want to say that the procedure carried out by the Communications Regulatory Agency has been called a competition and the candidates who are interested have applied for the competition. I guess no one checked in who wasn't interested! I'm just saying that maybe just a correction in what my colleague said about the candidate's interest. I'm talking about procedure in general. So, the competition was and I guess the competition is being registered by all those who are interested.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14900	Thank you. Can I?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14901	The word has been respected by President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14902	Thank you. I don't mind the competition, the way the rank-list was made, I think everything's fine and in accordance with the law. I don't believe a man has any criminal charges, nor can we judge him. We just want to say that in this House, the different criteria for determining whether someone is good for the workplace, and then I want to say to people who don't even have any criminal records, they don't have any court executive documents that they're guilty, they're wrong about being war criminals, and yet, on the other hand, I want to say that they have people who won't even tell anyone who's promoting them, who have a pretty good job to apply to where they're going to have to give up their job, because it would be a conflict of interest if they leave one and another job, that we have a lot of young people in BiH who don't have jobs, who have been educated in foreign schools, who have the capacity to apply and to be in a job like this. And I just want to know who's behind the policy where people who have well-paid jobs 44 are now pushing to be in another well-paid job, only now with state mangers. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14903	The word has a respected representative, Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14904	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I speak now because I am a member of this committee. These questions you've been discussing, we've just asked on this committee those who conducted the competition -- is everything legal? The other thing, I beg you, I know there are unemployed, but I know it was a possibility to report what Mrs. Azra was saying. So, how much did he sign up for? You can see in the material that 10 candidates have applied and that the criteria, in fact, by the criteria, have dropped three. I would only pray in that sense that as a member of this committee I am clear: that we have asked these questions precisely to those who were in charge of implementing this and that we have received the answer that this was done by the criteria and that it was a ranking list that was, in fact, created by those criteria. Here, there's the president of this committee, so just so much clarification that it wouldn't be if someone was standing. We as a commission have stood behind what someone should have done the job.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14905	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14906	What Mr. Bešlagić, a colleague of Bešlagić, said, therefore, were reported. And when you look at this curricula, you see, Ahmed Žilić. He's really impressive -- published papers, academic careers, even a journalist's career. I don't see why we should question a man like this. I understand why the Commission put it first.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14907	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14908	The Honorable Chairman, knowing three candidates personally, and not knowing this fourth, I tend to support younger people, especially when I saw Mr. Muhamed Mujakić referenda in his CV, and knowing some other circumstances for one of the candidates who here is not, who has now been spoken of, who has written countless texts and various comments that are not at the level of any of the boulevard's yellow press lists, without any argument and without anything, and knowing this man for 30 years and his work and engagement from 45 some time earlier and his complete salto mortal combination, from these earlier events, I don't think I would ever support his candidacy. But here, when I answered, I never heard or heard of this man but I always tend to give priority to young people who, although they don't know a lot about a job, will learn because if a man came all the way from 27 years old and, if he's all these qualifications, and it's clearly seen from a biography that he's not being challenged, so if he got support and recommendations from various prominent people behind his candidacy and if we look at his various degrees that he's gained in schooling, not only in BiH but around the world, I don't think this Parliament would be wrong if one such young man had the opportunity to prove himself at this job. However, it was logical that none of them came out with the program, which was the key, what to do in the place they were running for, how to improve – and we will have one of the points of the agenda – one condition that is completely unsatisfactory, so I will say freely and chaoticly, and that man should complete the structure envisaged for the Management Board of a significant institution in which they should all trust and now it is such a state that they do not. Because countless citizens have called me, so when that part of the agenda is done, I will say, but let me finish what it is about selecting candidates from the Bosniak people's order. And, look, it doesn't belong to my people, so let me prefer someone special now. I'll stay on the line to give a young man with these references a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14909	Dear Ambassador Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14910	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I would like to repeat in some way, not taking up much time, what counterpart Bešlagić said. A very decadent answer to the Commission has been received that the full legislative procedure has been respected, that a rank-list has been made and that the rank-list is as read by the chairman, so that on that side I really have no objections, I have my own commitment. However, I must have a personal impression: indeed this moving concern is for the unemployed and young, so I can't help but express it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14911	Thank you. In the following order: Hadžiahmetović, Dokić, Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14912	Well, here's the thing, and the proposal for a fellow Jovičić for young people, I really think it's a great commitment. And then let's agree on a principle that, let's say, in such institutions in the boards of directors, no one is older than us. some limit of 30-35. Let's put it this way: not the average age of the board of directors, but all members individually, if necessary. If this parliament is agreed to be young people up to 35 years old, then let's pick 46 full appointments for all, so that we can select three young people from the ranks of all three nations who will lead with full attention one house that deserves attention, which is what it will be about, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14913	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14914	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm a little bit, I'm sorry I wasn't at the beginning, maybe it'd be my turn to report as an introduction. Here, I don't want to repeat what my colleagues have said, but I want to point out that we have a clear task here. Until this session was conducted in accordance with the law. So the procedure is completely respected. We have four candidates in front of us, and today we need to define ourselves as one of four candidates. So my suggestion instead of the principle of things is that we are talking specifically about candidates. Whoever thinks that this guy or that guy, I'm not going to go into the reasons for what anyone thinks is advantageous, is proposing in this case. I can only tell you that according to Article 26. The law on the RTV service of BiH is clearly said who can't be and we should stick to it, but I wouldn't be burdening you right now, it's already been done by the Regulatory Agency. She eliminated those who couldn't be. But in short, three or four categories can't be. They can't be employed, they can't be authorities, they can't be members of the political parties' bodies, they can't be holders of duties in the legislative and executive authorities, they can't be those who own electronic media. So these are categories that can't be considered. I think the CRA rightly did that selection and all four of these candidates meet the general conditions laid down by law. So here's to shorten my story. I think we should focus our attention on the candidates individually. I want to point out immediately that this order that you have received is not a priority. We, we didn't get into it on the Commission, that's what I wanted to point out, but now I see that this is their ranking list. We didn't get into it. We discussed in terms of the satisfaction of this Article of the 26th Law. According to us, all four candidates meet the conditions and we now have a Parliament to choose from. We can pick the fourth from the list, he's not out. I would indeed, behold, at the end of this discussion, ask that MPs identify who they think may be the best candidate in their views for this significant function.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14915	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Will you let us take a break? A five-minute break. 47 [[PAUZA]] I ask the MPs to take their seats. The president of the SNSD Club, where is he? I hope the others will come in the meantime. The Honorable MP and SDA President Izetbegović asked for a break. Do you need to explain the break?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14917	... The SDA says that the Commission knew what it was doing and that it had clear criteria based on which it put Mr Ahmed Žilić in first place on the ranking list and that we are asking for Dom to declare himself so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14918	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking the House to prepare for a plea. We're going to the rank list. There's a vote first on Mr Ahmed Žilić. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 23, "against" one, "abstained" eight, sufficient entity majority. I find that Mr Ahmed Žilić has been appointed a member of the BiH Public Broadcasting Service Management Board of the Bosniak people, which closes the possibility of further pleading. And, in consultation with the deputies and at the request of the chairman of the Interresor Group, I am giving a break from 14 to 15 hours, when MPs can go to lunch and we can finish this job with the Interresor Group on Election Law. [[PAUZA]] ...session, on the agenda: Ad.22. Annual report for 2006 of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14921	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, the state of human rights is today truly an important barometer of overall democratic relations in the democratic world, and the Human Rights Ombudsman's institution in BiH has been defined, according to our Constitution, as an independent institution established to promote and protect human rights and freedoms and natural and legal persons guaranteed by the Constitution and international agreements in addition to the Constitution. As I understand it, this is the first report of this kind that BiH's Ombudsmans delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly during a five-year term that has expired. This certainly seems disappointing, as well as the fact that this house discusses the 2006 Annual Report in December 2007. ... The report was delivered three months ago to this house. I am personally in the dilemma whether we should discuss today's report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2006 or on the report on the state of human rights in BiH for 2006. Since it is an independent institution, it would be more logical and natural for me to report on the state of human rights in BiH in 2006. I am personally not satisfied with this report, because the problem of human rights and freedoms must be written in a more concrete language and with more analytical data, in order to first know the extent of human rights violations, and then to know precisely how violations of human rights are widespread and territorial and which levels of government are therefore responsible. For me personal information about 5,200 citizens who have spoken to the Ombudsman, like this, for themselves, does not mean anything. From this report, I, as an MP, cannot understand the extent of human rights violations and, in particular, there are no parallel indicators or even written evaluations of the Ombudsman whether the human rights situation in 2006 is better or worse than in 2005 and the year before. The Annual Report does not contain data that the institutions did not respect the ombudsmen's recommendation in 2006, at least all institutions. I have read this report very seriously and carefully, and I have not been under the impression that there is some professional work behind the report and the importance that the Ombudsman Institution deserves, but rather, I am getting the impression that this institution is far from the role of the House of Human Rights, which it should have. The Ombudsmans were very few in the media and the public with their educational messages to citizens, with warnings and 49 recommendations, which, in my opinion, is unjust and, on the other hand, would be useful for promoting human rights. I don't think this house and we MPs should just go over a report like this, not even through the findings expressed in it by the Ombudsman. The Annual Report lists several hotspots, when it comes to human rights violations in 2006, which are primarily governmental administrations, in which aggravation of administrative proceedings and various forms of non-professional relations arise as phenomenal forms of human rights violations. Then, there is the judiciary with the entire arsenal of human rights violations and the Constitution, from the length of the trial to the non-execution of the judgments of the courts. For the reasons of the Ombudsman, the re-election of judges, inefficiencies of courts, etc. has not been carried out so far. The judiciary should be the cornerstone of the rule of law, and we should not just cross these findings before certain reforms have been implemented in the area, but unfortunately, there is the impression that the judges' salaries were the only progress in judicial reform. Such a situation in the judiciary is a great incentive for corruption and organised crime that destroys any progress of society. More than 330,000 unsolved cases in BiH courts would have to be an alarm, and the issue cannot be taboo, despite the fact that in such warnings the responsible ones often hide behind the independence of the judiciary. About the spread and the phenomenal forms of violation of labour rights? They also have special specific weight. It is no longer a secret that workers in this country are the most reprehensible category of citizens. They are not protected, unfortunately, by trade unions or laws, and the behaviour of private employers is no different from that of the so-called time. Crude capitalism. The Ombudsmans cite concerns over the broad spectrum of labour law violations, from failure to comply with obligations towards workers, non-payment of salary contributions, forcing prolonged work without adequate compensation and cancellation due to pregnancy to the difficulties which workers are exposed to in an attempt to exercise their rights, facing high court fees, the absence of free legal aid, i.e. expensive legal aid, family, political similarity in employment, etc. The object of mass violation is the so-called so-called. social rights of citizens, from fundamental social rights to social rights of children. The Ombudsman finds that the level of social rights in BiH is extremely low and that both miserable social rights are very often subject to violations. A large number of so-called. social laws are also passed but are at all or to a very small extent applied. Human rights are also very often violated by persons in the exercise of criminal and correctional sanctions, from an inadequate system of complaints, an unregulated relationship through acceptance or untimely consideration of requests for parole or pardon to inadequate conditions of stay in criminal and correctional institutions. In accordance with the law, the Ombudsmans also made a special report on complaints about the length of the proceedings. For me, this special report is acceptable, along with opinions, conclusions and recommendations from the Ombudsman, but I'm afraid there are no mechanisms for anyone to worry about. So, in the end, for me this report is not at the level of the problem of the Ombudsman. To repeat, this report must contain data that human rights have been violated, to what extent, who violated them and by whom, the activities of the Ombudsman, opinions and clear 50 recommendations of the Ombudsman addressed by name and last name to those responsible for human rights violations. I don't know what to suggest in this particular situation as a conclusion, in a situation where this house needs to appoint new ombudsmen, except once again I have to say that the human rights situation in BiH certainly deserves a far more serious and professional relationship and an ombudsman and this home to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14922	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14923	There's no discussion before me. I thank you, Chairman. I would like, through my review of this report, to make some points here that are mentioned in the report itself, to a very small segment that also paints the situation in other areas and concerns paragraphs 4.3. Labour rights. That's what my colleague Dolić said. I'd like to fill in some things. Through this report and through this segment that I have mentioned, there is indeed a lot of areas and institutions that do not carry out their obligations and indeed there are a lot of demands to improve the situation in these areas. It is said here that in a very difficult situation as regards labour rights, it is, employees in the private sector where certain rights are not recognised, where contributions are not paid, where what they are doing is not paid. Employers avoid payment of contributions; further, that the relevant provisions prescribed by court fees – the Ombudsman's proposal clearly stated here – that it should be amended, and that workers should be freed from paying fees in all types of work dispute, as they do not have salaries and even though they are not paid contributions, they are in a situation where they do not have the means to pay the costs they have to pay in advance. The next thing you know here is the application of Articles 152 and 143, depending on the entity from which it comes. And here there is a finding that as many as 60,000 pending complaints regarding the application of Article 152. The law in labour in RS still has unresolveds. And cantonal commissions, mostly, represent a dead letter on paper, especially one finding. And finally, through this segment of labour rights, which I want to specifically potential, is also the return of pre-war workers to their jobs, which is the primary objective of Article 143. - I'm sure it's inconspicuous. This concludes here, and leads to the conclusion that the authorities in both entities have done almost nothing to correct the consequences of ethnic persecution in terms of enjoying labour rights and their passive role or even supporting and obstructing ethnic discrimination regarding the use of labour rights. I especially wanted to read these things here to be heard, because a few days ago we had debates where MPs are convinced, depending on where they came from, that it was... enough that people came back to work, that there were them in institutions etc. 51 And this fact-supported finding, so from this institution and I really through this complete report, I can see that here in one place we have clearly listed problems, the situation and we have a proposal for measures. In these proposals, here to mention, in addition to what I said, especially this last one – means, the right to return to jobs, which are expelled, pre-war jobs – I was in my electoral unit, more specifically in the Tomislav-City or Duvno municipality once, visiting and talking to both the head of the municipality and representatives of the Bošnjak and, indeed, there are 150 Bošnjak who worked in the public sector, education, health, post office, those where the majority property of the state, out of 150 of today are employed by only 20. Some have changed jobs, some have left town, but there are a number of them waiting on their work and I here, so in this place I want to mention that there is a voice from those parts that is almost not heard. It's small places but they have some problems, and that's why I want to use this report to bring it up. Through the Joint Commission Report which has considered and given its opinion on the Annual Report of the Ombudsman Institution, we have two conclusions, which, with all due respect, indeed, I do not think reflect the views and those conclusions and recommendations contained in the Annual Report of the Ombudsman Institution for Human Rights: to be accepted and to be supported by institutions. These are conclusions that could certainly be accepted. However, I suggest another conclusion. It concerns us, as far as we control how it works, which we give the instruments to work a little bit better, that means the Council of Ministers, to draw another conclusion which may be a third conclusion with the Commission's conclusions: that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is tasked by the Council of Ministers to analyse and develop the proposed measures for resolving them in the Annual Human Rights Report of the Ombudsman for 2006. The proposed measures should be submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration within 60 days. Because, in this report, there is indeed a lot of areas and proposals for amending laws or supplementing certain laws that would improve the situation and, therefore, I propose that this conclusion be added as a third conclusion to this: that those of which we, we, we may ask for something to do that we are in charge of our Council of Ministers to do certain things, to eliminate these problems that are in the conclusion, the recommendations of the Ombudsman set out in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14924	Thank you. Dear Ombudsman Mr. Mariofil Ljubić came forward for a few sentences, but... Here you go. Imported Member Hadžiahmetović. You wanted it before, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14925	I don't insist, but in general, I don't think it would be too bad if he had any questions or needs to answer something, to do something later. With the circumstances, I have had the opportunity to breathe a little more with the Law on the Ombudsmans and perhaps to get a little more familiar with the way the existing institution is working with 52 ombudsmen and the good part and with perhaps inadequate or insufficiently precise legal provisions, when it comes to the Ombudsman institution. I'll just remind you that in the election of three ombudsmen, we faced what the Institution does: are the three together or the three at once? I apologize that, perhaps, this is how I speak, not by any means by any means the institution, or by any means. One of the three ombudsmen is here today, and I'm sorry that the other two are not here, that they may be providing us with answers to some questions together, more than there is a problem with the functioning of the Ombudsman Institution, for a number of reasons. Perhaps, partly from this inadequate institutional framework, perhaps, the indetermination of the law, etc. And maybe because of the way you work in the institution itself, so I'd like to ask you if we focus on that kind of story so that it doesn't go to the address that here... The ombudsmen's institution makes three faces. Me, it would be good for us to have a debate on the state of human rights as counterpart Dolić mentioned. However, such a situation in the domain of human rights may well go to the address and function of human rights institutions. I have to say that every time we go to a meeting at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it really makes me uncomfortable, because every time we get criticisms, enquiries about the functioning of the Ombudsman Institution. We're talking about the functioning of the institution, we're not talking about personal solutions or anything. I am pleased that we, or the College, have been determined that, in part, when we talk about the functioning of an institution, we are going to get a full picture. Let's say, I wondered why the Office of Audit report, when it comes to public service, along with the report, and why not among others, I can also ask the question - I'm sorry that it's not here together and this report of the Ombudsman Institution and the audit report, when it comes to the Ombudsman institution that we have a complete picture. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if we were watching it parallelly. This Annual Report for 2006, which the Ombudsman Institution provided us, is commendable for any type of writing, etc., but I want to draw attention to a few things. First, it is a natural need for BiH to have this institution as well as all European countries and that the institution works, of course, in accordance with standards, rules, both domestic and international rights, in full capacity, and at the service and for the needs of citizens, in no way to satisfy some of the narrow interests. I will only remind you that by taking office as Ombudsman for human rights, whose mandate expired in December of last year and which, given the circumstances, are still in office, are in a capacity that is inappropriate. And why, we all know that on January 1, 2004, 11 persons were employed in Sarajevo in the affairs of lawyers, and six lawyers were employed in Banja Luka. The Brcko District was covered by lawyers from these two offices: Sarajevo and Banja Luka. Here, let's say, just a year later, in April 2005, only one lawyer was employed in Sarajevo, and two lawyers at the Office of Banja Luka. I mention this only because it has been this important to leave the professional staff of the lawyers, above all, was followed by the administration and, practically, in the last two years, this institution has been functioning... under very difficult circumstances, without adequate accompanying services and professional staff. 53 Here in this report are several examples and we are presented with some statistics that I just have to mention. For example, there is a obligation to record cases and parties which are the basis for the establishment of an annual report of the Ombudsman institution under the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights, i.e. Database. As far as I know, statistics are done manually and there is no way or mechanism to control how many items are recorded and who are in offices, offices – therefore, Sarajevo and Banja Luka – so that the numbers, we behind these numbers, do not know whether the same items that are being conducted in both Sarajevo and Banja Luka are possible. I want to mention that I'm not even sure that here in this 2006 report, if we read it carefully, we have an example. a record that would also tell us about the efficiency of work and any problems faced by the Ombudsman in the work, how many cases were received in 2006 and how many cases were solved in 2006. I'm only saying this because of the accumulation of objects and a lot of backlogs from previous years. When it comes to the institution itself, let's say, the internal act on which this institution operates, take a look at the audit reports, the internal acts that exist...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14926	Let's just listen to each other! AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14927	...so the existing internal acts were adopted in a good way at the time of so-called the ombudsmen are still functioning, or they are valid until new ombudsmen are brought in. And then, of course, they also question their accuracy, their determinations, possibly whether they are contrary to some legal provisions, etc. These coordinations of these internal acts over a period of four years, or five years, have not yet been carried out. When it comes to recommendations, let's say, in the largest number of recommendations and cases, there is no agreement between the Ombudsman institution made up of three persons. I will only remind you, let's say, that the Law on the Ombudsman for Human Rights provides that, in the performance of their duties, the Ombudsmans co-operate and act according to individual complaints, or by official duty, ex officio, but what, to skip, of course, one part, the Ombudsmans together give proposals for solutions and bring reports. The three ombudsmen together present proposals, solutions and report. However, what is a failure of the law, which he did not predict: what if the three of them, by chance, now we have these three, maybe tomorrow some other three, etc., what if they can't agree? This then goes to the detriment of what Mr Dolić was saying: are we going to talk about the state of human rights or perhaps, possibly, human rights violations because of how the Ombudsman's institution works for human rights! I am discussing this way, trying to point out the problems we are facing because of this way of functioning of the Ombudsman's Institution and those who may be facing problems because of the law passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH which may be lacking, and we have never received a signal from the Ombudsman's Institution, a proposal, or a recommendation – that because of that or either of these provisions or indeterminateness, it is possible that some amendments to the law or the completion of the legislative framework should be made. 54 I will only mention, let's say, that by international institutions our Ombudsman institution has been very supportive and which is good, and in this sense, and should certainly be thanked, to the international community which has supported this institution in various ways. But it wasn't fish giving, it was fish fishing. I just want to mention that, unfortunately, the way it was handled in all of this was mainly a feature, i.e. the first one, because of the strong support, particularly aimed at education, we today did not have that multiplicity effect within BiH, so I am not sure that enough people within BiH are educated enough today for jobs to be dealt with by the Ombudsman for human rights. And, in that sense, I have to show dissatisfaction with the activities of the Ombudsman Institution, when it comes to this kind of activity: education, education, etc. through various kinds of seminars, conferences and the like, although there was very much support that was used but unfortunately that effect... in the sense that it was meant to contribute. I want to mention the problem, the very essence of the problem, which is one institution, three persons, the way of communication between them and the decisions that they and the way decisions are made, that is, not making decisions if they can't agree on a good part of what may have come about because of the indetermination and the different interpretation of the law itself, and the need may also be to change the law. We have already been faced here on several occasions with certain provisions of the law, i.e. we have faced problems because of the different interpretation of certain provisions of the law. I am sorry that this very institution that breathes with these problems has never had an initiative in terms of creating a more favourable institutional legislative framework for the functioning of this institution. And I want to mention that it would be good to use this period, and with everything that will come to us in the next period, when it comes to the functioning of the Ombudsman institution, we all use it here and pay attention to this institution. So, even if we get some suggestions, comments, initiatives, etc. from the Ombudsman institution, or the office itself. when it comes to the institutional framework, one open, perhaps one open approach in communication with Parliament, what was the problem with the functioning of this institution, or what we can fix in some other segments, or in the way it works. Of course, praise is all that they did well. I am sorry that the overall reform of these institutions – therefore, and the two entities that should have in some way not only stopped working but their work is being incorporated under one roof – that results in what should have been done to improve the human rights situation in BiH, I am sorry that all this has not happened, but also, I must say, that we are not talking about the report on the work of this institution anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14928	I thank the honourable representative. The word has been respected by President Živković. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14929	Thank you. I've been meaning to comment on this. But since I have to look back at three points that Honored MP Hadžiahmetović, I decided to go out here for a pay phone. In fact, she mentioned to the Kolegijum that she had not put together a point with the Ombudsman and a point of review. So at least three times direct, and multiple times indirect or indirect. You could have suggested that to the extended college at the debate on the agenda point and at the beginning of this point, and no one, believe me, would have minded it in this room. Put a grudge on the Kolegijum that he didn't do it, I think it's inconsistencies. On the other hand, I don't want to say that you said that, but I want to say my personal position and the SNSD's position that one man, one institution, one man, one voice, is not for us a model on which BiH can function. For us, the model we need to cultivate is a consensus. And thirdly, we in the College went to the initiative of amending and supplementing the Ombudsman law in the direction of finding a better solution to the problem that happened to us last time. The OHR at a joint meeting and with other NGOs suggested that we do not do so and that we go to the solution that has been proposed here today in Parliament and which has been adopted. So there was an initiative, and we saw that there was something missing in that law, and in that direction the College went to make changes and supplement laws, but in this other way we solved this thing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14930	Thank you. Replication response: Honored representative Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14931	It's not a reply to the replica, it's a correction to the wrong quote. I did not criticise the College, but I commended the College who, when it comes to the tv service, posted a report to get a full picture. I think it's a good thing, that it's a good model, and in that sense I've expressed regret that we haven't, say, had in this case. In the context of the circumstances, we have this at the same session, and we could have had it in two. Therefore, fellow Živković, it is commendable to you for television, and it is not a sting for the Ombudsman, but perhaps a suggestion is that whenever you are in such a position that at perhaps different points of the agenda you can unite them, we get a full picture. And secondly, I wasn't talking about one institution, one person, but I was talking about here one institution makes up three persons, not propagating at all a model,... any model, but pointing to the problem that one institution that makes up three persons has turned into maltene three ways of functioning one institution and the problems that have arisen from that. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14932	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14933	I'm not going to replicate or... the false allegations, but I want to say a few words about the Annual Report and my vision of the concept that we have when it comes to the Ombudsman Institution. Of course, I respect and appreciate the Annual Report that we have today and I wish we had discussed it even before, and, behold, it was the basis for a series of initiatives and proposals that could go towards improving the situation in this area. However, I am still convinced that when it comes to the concept that we have arranged this institution, it is not the most efficient, it is not the most rational. And I absolutely cannot agree that in this case, therefore, where universal things are concerned, universal rights, human rights, we apply our usual concepts of protection of constituent peoples, etc. So, we've suggested in some way by establishing the Ombudsman's institution in terms of three persons, we've suggested to people, depending on the nationality, in which direction they go. I know that someone may try to deny me and perhaps even a present Ombudsman who will give me information that people, regardless of nationality, are going to any Ombudsman who is free, etc., but I assure you that in some way, we are setting up three persons – a Srbin, a Bošnjak and a Hrvat – suggesting that people refer to the Ombudsman who belongs to the people they belong to, which is wrong in my opinion. And I think – connecting this principle one institution, one man – it's not about one man, it's simply about the Ombudsman, it's about the Ombudsman, and it was quite enough that he... through further... organization etc., that function can absolutely perform. But surely, I'm sure we all have the same goal. And finally, I don't think we can tie it to some concept one institution, one man, one voice, etc., I think it's completely separate things from each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14934	Thank you. For the discussion: Honourable MEP Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14935	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask a few questions regarding these issues of the Ombudsman's status. What is the role and function of the Ombudsman? 57 Knowing what the role of the Ombudsman is in European countries, it is your minority definitive judgment... which you must act on. Another thing, what is the range of decisions or recommendations of an ombudsman in execution, I would say, their conclusions in our, let's say, legislation? And the third thing, which is very interesting, we here have the Annual Report, which is made up of 90 pages, of which 47 pages are dedicated to the judiciary, I would say, and to the Court's shortcomings where human rights violations are talked about in fact, because they're cases that haven't been resolved. It's a fundamental issue with our citizens, which means, in other words, complaints that are there, because it's a very interesting question to see. I'd say the ombudsmans did well, I guess, assess the problem that's coming to us: the question of the courts, the execution of the courts, let's say, the lawsuits! And finally, another question for Mr. Ombudsman. In the last chapter, in which you gave Appendix 2, you give some examples, looks where your recommendations have been accepted. It's nice to meet you, but one amazing number here is, the number of 5,000, I was throwing this greatest number, so it's 5,440, and here we have everything, does that mean that the others didn't listen to you? I'm interested in, in fact, your jurisdiction and your right to make your decision an executive. Can you give us an answer: do we, do we respect you in these things or do we disrespect you? Because if we could just turn into you making recommendations that don't oblige anyone, then I think the ombudsman function missed its goal in these European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14936	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14937	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, however, I must honestly say that I have doubled... how much it makes sense to complicate this session by discussing this report, so I was thinking there will be no debate, that we will accept the report because, and by accepting this report and not accepting this report, we will not change anything. So, so... I'm thinking about how rational this is now, here's what I'm contributing to right now. But here, offered by debate, may not be too bad,...for the future and for some of the dilemmas that appear to us, and that will come to us as long as we have such regulated legislation as is defined by the Ombudsman's Institution. And I, for that reason, means, not wanting at all to defend the Ombudsman's institution, to defend the people who are in the Ombudsman's institution today, because I might have a lot of reasons to be dissatisfied with the institution's work. I am aware that the scope of this institution and the people working is limited by the law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. We were discussing at some of the previous sessions on the appointment of the Ombudsman instead of really discussing the appointment more discussing some procedures that do not exist at all in the law, so we wanted to introduce something that does not exist at all in the law. What's special about me today is that I'm having this discussion with you. These two papers. The one that's beautifully painted and beautifully wrapped and the one that's modest is wrapped like this. But both are reports of the Ombudsman. And now I'm thinking about who sent this to me and here I see who sent this to me. Both talk about some aspects of the work of the Ombudsman institution. This is a certain way of contributing. I think I understand well the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović who commented on the irregularities in the law. And is it possible for an individual – one of the ombudsmen, as Mr Safet Pašić did – to deliver to us some kind of report or is there an obligation for the institution of the Ombudsman, which consists of three members to submit its joint report, which I assumed is this. I don't believe that relations and conditions in the Ombudsman Institution are caused by the current staffing, so to speak, by the personal composition of the institution. Maybe it's a good opportunity not to go into the essence of these reports, because I don't think we're going to do anything or accept them or accept them, I think they should be a good cause and a good reason for you, regardless of what the House Chairman informed you of. We, however, were motivated by something else, entered the talks and tried, even had some suggestions to go into the process of amending the Law on the Ombudsman Institution. I think that law should be amended now, because I think he has so many loose ends, so many holes that no matter who we choose tomorrow, we're going to have the exact same condition in the functioning of this institution. But here, the views of certain international institutions working here in BiH together with us were that at this point it is not necessary. It seems to me, especially when I look at this statement, that this report, too, is this report, that this report is a reason to seriously consider – not ad hoc, not a hasty... because I really think this is an important institution – time, timing, moderation, so that we may also commit people who are still in the Ombudsman Institution to base their own experience in the implementation of this law so far propose certain changes and to reach one of the better quality laws on the Ombudsman Institution within a reasonable period. At this point, I would like to call here to accept the report of our competent commission which is now heading towards the adoption of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman Institution, and that, with one additional conclusion, here, if necessary, I would be more interested in thinking about all of us, to see which model, that in the nearest time we enter into the phase of adopting a more quality law on the Ombudsman's institution, in order to ensure that this institution, along with everything we should, and what we do not have today, we also ensure the full and true independence of the Ombudsman Institution. It may also be the biggest lack of an existing legal solution because, as long as this institution is elected here, it will be politically colored, no matter how declarative they run away from me, because this is a political body. However, and whatever we decide, we decide politically. Well, let's think about it that way. So, I would,... given the conditions in which the former Ombudsman institution, or the current one, has worked, give support to accepting this report but to... consider the possibility of entering the process of making or amending a completely new law on the Ombudsman's institution very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14938	Thank you. If there are no more reports, the honourable Parliament of Rajilić. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14939	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first report I see in this institution's House, but these reports by my side, while I was working in the RS Parliament, I was five-six, and I was the president of the committee responsible for this institution in the RS, and I must say that these remarks I've heard from both Mr. Lozančić and some of the other debaters there have not been questioned, they haven't been presented, at least in the last two years since the change of composition in the institution of the Ombudsman of the RS and I have information that this institution there... has been very well functioning. What I disagreed with Mrs. Azra is the fact that, as I understand it, everything needs to be centralized, and then see how it works. Here, I really have very positive experience with this Ombudsman and, it seems to me, that we actually need to work on a program where the Ombudsman will be as close to the man himself as possible to a people who won't have to travel, because here is where I worked, so, the Ombudsman wasn't every day in every municipality, but he came in occasionally and there were big problems for people to come and talk to at all. What I have information: recommendations written by the Ombudsman, which were oral and oral, were well accepted by institutions in the RS. I only answered for one reason to say that there are certain recommendations in this report that apply to our institution, which is our Parliament. ... I am particularly interested in these recommendations concerning the work of the BiH courts, because everyone, so they can't all say it, but at least those who have their offices in municipalities and who work with our population, or voters, are meeting with the fact that a very large number of people are talking to us and asking for our help in court proceedings. Of course, we as elected representatives of the people have the right to interfere in the work of the courts and then come into a situation that we cannot help the citizens who voted for us, and we cannot explain why we cannot do it. In view of this, I would like to significantly underline these recommendations concerning judicial reform, as it is said that this process should be completed as soon as possible, by appointing additional or more appointments of at least those foreseen for the work of certain courts, because our courts have not been completed. We have a situation that we don't have enough judges to work in some municipalities, so it chokes, chokes the work in those courts. Also, the part where technical staff could do a little better, given their salaries, they will not, or, given the difference between judges and technical staff, then there is a delay in writing the judgments themselves. And a very important thing, I think we all here need to think about the powers of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, because we're in a situation where they themselves name judges and prosecutors and then they decide their own work and give their assessment. I think it's a certain conflict of interest and it leads to the ineffectiveness of the courts, because in principle, if they agree well with the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, no one touches them. And yet again, here in this report, you have one part that speaks of workers' labour rights both in the Federation of BiH and in the RS where the ombudsmen believe that workers' rights are significantly compromised, especially in those cases where they remain jobless and seek their rights in courts. Among other things, I would particularly support this part of the taxi 60 change in these processes, because these fees, in principle, can't pay and then come into the situation that they're not suing at all without saying how long this process takes until they get it, and especially how long the process takes, the executive process, to even collect their rights. I would therefore, once again, ask either the Ombudsman or the competent commission to initiate the amendments or recommend that there be changes to the cabs paid for the launch of work disputes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14940	Thank you. And I would now ask the Ombudsman, Mr. Mariofil Ljubić, to address the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14941	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, thank you for the opportunity to refer in short lines to the Annual Report 2006 of the Ombudsman Institution, as you have seen, we have had about 5,200 complaints. The main areas of human rights violations are justice, administration, labour relations, social and health protection, pension and disability insurance compared to 2005. There is a particular problem for returnees in the exercise of their rights, in particular the right to social and health protection. It concerns a major inequality of health and social protection in BiH territory, unlike entities and entities, from canton to canton. We urge BiH authorities to ensure a minimum of social and health protection for all citizens through a more even distribution of funds from all available funds. We place a special emphasis on ensuring the enjoyment of the rights of recognised applicable legal rules for all children in the entire BiH territory, because so far this is not the case. Certainly, the establishment of the Special Department of this institution – where we have already started – that is what you have adopted in the amendments to the law – is one good thing that has been accepted, means that a special section for children's rights is being formed. As for the functioning of the judicial system, despite the reform, we can conclude that everything should not be the way it should be, given that the number of pending cases is increasing, as we often stress, that we have to make sure that reforms cannot go beyond the cost of the poorest. One of our recommendations and what we have noticed is that we have to deal with it: that justice in BiH does not become too expensive and as such only available to a narrow circle of people! I'm afraid that's the trend right now. As for pension-inhabited insurance, the recommendation is to start a thorough reform in BiH. As for the employees, I have nothing to add, you really said it. A particular problem of increasing complaints about the situation in prisons. We also support reform. We are also actively involved in the state of reform of the prison system. 61 Furthermore, the still unresolved problem of installing the unaccountable perpetrators of criminal offences. That specifically refers to the Federation. We've got your support. The situation, the truth, is slightly mending, but it hasn't been solved yet. Also, the unresolved status of the institution for the accommodation of the disabled. Here, first of all, I urge you to appeal to your authority and to lower levels to take over the founding rights of existing institutions, so that the situation is satisfactory. As for the amendment and addition of the Law on the Ombudsman that you have adopted, this law, regardless of its inadequacies, makes assumptions for one better quality work, in particular by establishing special departments concerning the rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of national minorities and religious and other and all. So, as far as the recommendations are concerned, eye recommendations are not a powerful tool, but I think they are a powerful enough tool, because ombudsman shouldn't be a substitute for inspection for courts or for all those who need to do their job. The most important recommendations are when the recommendation is adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. I can say, of all BiH institutions, the best cooperation, the greatest support, we have had so far from the Parliamentary Assembly which, by adopting our recommendations, has given our special reports and conclusions a strong tone of our recommendations. But, again, I'm not supposed to, so, I think, that we're a substitute for... courts, that we're a substitute for inspections, because when we treat the situation in the judiciary, we can't discuss the measure of court decisions, we're discussing procedure. As far as the situation is concerned, I note that this means the Annual Report of the Ombudsman Institution, which means that it has come out of the institution and it is. We can accept it, we can't accept it, we can't make it nicer than it is. I think it is very correct and... that simply with your support, it can give a lot of good and quality conclusions and I welcome the initiatives, means that, perhaps, as a result of this report, one discussion is being held, one discussion is being prepared, and the issue of the functioning of the Ombudsman Institution and of human rights. Here, I undertake to prepare with my colleagues an initial material and direct it to the College of this House and discuss some aspects together and that there may be improvement. I note that it still means the functioning of the two ombudsman institutions that work means each one at its own level. I note, we had problems and the most problems we felt because of this unresolved status because, I mention, this unresolved status lasts... days. We still have a live competition for 22 positions, but we have stopped it for reasons because it is waiting to mean reform of these institutions and, therefore, it is not ours, it is not only a question to this institution, unfortunately, we are, we are, we are, we are suffering all these consequences, and therefore, at last, I would like to thank you for the support we have so far and I would like to call on this process as soon as you bring it to an end, meaning with this obligation that we deliver one material from the institution, with reference to all these discussions that we have heard today on these proposals, simply, so that we can also discuss the law, perhaps in another way, a little bit of defining some legal provisions, but the limitations are just as they are and you accept this report as it is, because the situation is. Maybe even in certain areas it's a little bit of a concern, but that's the way it is. With respect and quiet and conclusions, I think we can fix something. I'm thanking you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14942	Thank you. If there is no one else to apply for the debate, I am closing the debate and putting the Annual Report for 2006 of the BiH Ombudsman Institution, with the report of our commission and the conclusions together on the vote, and then we will vote on Mr Nanić's conclusion. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! Technical problems! Please repeat this vote, prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! Please prepare your ballot cards. I call upon the House to declare who is in favour? Please hold the charts until the count is done. Thank you. Now to make clear who is “against ”? There isn't. We declare who is “abstained ”? Thank you. Can I get your results, please? 26 "for", no one "against", six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. We adopted this report. We are now voting on the conclusion of Mr Nanić, an honourable MP, who says: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is in charge of the BiH Council of Ministers to analyse and draw up a proposal for measures to resolve it in the Annual Report of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution for 2006. The proposed measures should be submitted to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration within 60 days. I hope the technique's okay now. So we're not sure if it's okay, but we'll try to vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Obviously, there's something wrong. Please prepare with the charts to vote. I call upon the House to declare who is in favour? Who Is “against ”? Who is “abstained ”? 26 "for", 27 "for", four are "abstained", not "against", enough is the majority. 63 This conclusion has passed, although I'm getting a list, it just doesn't show on screen, and the listing says 26 "for", "restricted", seven, "against", there was no "against" so we're paying attention in the way we vote. I'm sorry. We move to the next item of the agenda and propose as a College to bring together the 23rd and 24th agendas in the debate, because we in the College agreed to limit the debate to three minutes or two replicas, for a simple practical reason, which we believe until 17 hours when technical problems and power shortages occur in this institution... we end this debate, and then propose to the Kolegijum a way in which we end the session, i.e. end the session. So be understanding of our attitude and do not be overly resentful when we warn you on time. Point 23 of the agenda: Ad.23. Report on the work and operation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service, with report on the work of the Management Board On 20 July 2007, the Board of Directors of BHRT provided Parliament with a report on the work and business of the Public TV Service of BiH, adopted by the Management Board on 5 June 2007. He also submitted a report on the work of the Management Board of RTVBiH. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible for considering these reports. We received a notice from this commission on 24 September that the Commission, at its 7th session, held on 4 September 2007, concluded that it is necessary for the Management Board of the Public TV Service to produce a new full report on the work of the Public TV Service, which will provide suggestions for overcoming the problem in work, in particular with the resolution of financial problems, and, together with the Office for Auditing the BiH institutions, to deliver the report to Parliament. At the 9th session, held on 9 October 2007, the committee in charge found that the report on the work was supplemented by data from the BiH institutions' audit report on BHRT's audit. The Commission has not adopted the report on the work and business of the Public TV Service and has taken the view that before considering the report at the House of Finance and Budget Committee, the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions for 2005 BHRT and 2006 should deliver an opinion on the report. In view of this, the Commission requested that the report be removed from the agenda of the 16th session of the House and a new report on the work of the Management Board was submitted on 5 October 2007. The Management Board submitted an updated report on the work of the Management Board on 1.11.2007. Finally, we received the Commission's opinion on 1 November 2007. Regarding the report on the work of the Management Board, the Commission concluded that it was necessary for the Management Board to complete the report with more details on the work and activities, from appointments to date, and, together with the BHRT Board, to take measures to remove the failures listed in the Report of the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, as well as to draw up a plan of measures to address the debt problem and the collection of BHRT's claims. Finally, at the 10th session, held on 64 31.10.2007, the Commission adopted an updated report on the work of the Public TV Service Management Board. In the final opinion, the Commission proposes to adopt the conclusions of the House: Taking into account the fact that the BiH institutions' audit report on BHRT's 2005 and 2006 audits set out a number of activities that do not comply with the applicable laws, it is necessary for the BiH institutions' control bodies to take into account BHRT's operations. By the end of 2007, a new concept of BHRT marketing services should be adopted and the marketing services of BHRT set up. And according to the one at the beginning, I will read that the Office for Audit submitted the report on the revision of the Public TV Service for 2005 and 2006 on 2 October 2007. The financial and budgetary committee responsible discussed the audit report and submitted a commission report to the House on 17 October. You've also received a review report and a commission report. I draw your attention to the conclusions in the committee report, at four points, which are proposed to the House for adoption. Namely, the conclusions under regular number 3 and 4 have already been overcome because of the flow of time, so we should only vote on the conclusions under points 1 and 2. Reports from the Commission, and they read: 1. The BHRT should without delay comply with all the audit recommendations set out in the 2005 and 2006 reports. 2. The supervisory authorities are required to take into account the financial operations of BHRT according to the audit reports for 2005 and 2006. We also have BHRT employees today. I thank them for their presence. If they express their desire to discuss it, they'll get it. I'm opening a debate now. Dear MP Erić, so Marković, Elez and Bahtić, Mehmedović, in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14944	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, I will try to remise as soon as possible, and this point deserves great attention, especially because of the importance of the media, the democracy we promote, and the law we swear to. That's one thing. Here's what we've noticed, briefly. I speak on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, so the reports we received. Law on Public TV Service BiH, number 92. – here are the exact and decadent responsibilities of the Management Board and the responsibilities of the Director. You know that we've received reports from RTD management, meaning that he wasn't on the board of directors, so there's been a violation of the law, and I wouldn't discuss it much. What's still problematic is the situation there. The salary is set aside 33% of the total income,... 3, revers 2 and some costs 4. So, a total of 42% goes to personal income. If we get into management and economics a little bit, then we'll figure out: every company that has over 15% participation in personal incomes and everything else, it's basically inequitable and needs to go straight into bankruptcy. So you have a 42% story here. 65 And what I would briefly sum up is – the audit reports that are in front of you – means we have warnings that no revision was carried out in 2005. Then you have warnings and exact items that the current debt is somewhere between seven and eight million. If we consider this report, one point that says 4.3 million so-called. The covert loss, I've never really been able to figure this out before, to understand what a covert loss is, and most likely there were reports there annually, so, in some ways, they were hiding. In order not to spread the story, I propose, since I am also a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, and that is what most likely the President of the Commission will say, to adopt the Commission's views and to adopt this audit report and to raise all questions there on television as soon as possible. I don't know if today this with a board member is settled or not, time will show, but it's really alarming and it wouldn't be good, especially for us and for this house, that all the people who are there are worried about what's going to happen to them. That's one thing. How we're going to be reporting second and third, so how they spend money there, that's one thing, how long it is, and who's going to take care of that debt! So, should we engage in this debt or make some... recommendation or decision that the auditor or control bodies there, as already the position of this committee, come in and see if it's a bankruptcy or, therefore, who will sanction that debt, and we warn you, also means that the auditors, because this company has no internal audit, see how these funds will be spent in the future, especially if we know that editorial policy has a lot more spending... agencies and some costs that are invisible than they are real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14945	Thank you. I warn the Members of Parliament on time. Marković's esteemed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14946	Thank you. Well, here I am, respecting the time and circumstances under which we are to complete today's work of this Parliament, going to try to make my observation in the shortest lines regarding the reports that we have on the agenda today. I would immediately say that the Business Report and the Report of the Management Board of RTV BiH – in my view, should make a certain difference. In fact, I notice that in the Business Report, it's this document,... talks only about what it was, how business was organised, what was happening, while the Work Report... The board of directors of this media house says that the Management Board was more responsible, more involved in the problem that is currently being addressed in this RTV BiH. But also the audit report and these two documents that I mentioned say that there are very difficult conditions in that house, that there are large debts, that there are many issues...... to be dealt with and to be answered, start with marketing services, or marketing as one type of income in TV BiH, then the tv tax, which is required by the request here that we have received – is required... increase. Then from the status and question of the editor-in-chief and the editor-in-chief whom I could not conclude from these documents whether it was a competition, whether the competition was completed, whether it was the appointment of the editor-in-chief or not. 66 But what certainly merits the most attention from these documents is that according to the audit report that we received here: facts and figures say that there is a great burden in terms of the debt of RTV BiH and that it is very questionable now who is going to settle this debt. So, who's going to bring him to zero, whether it can only be done by the board of directors and the management of this house, or maybe a bigger circle, extends a team of people to get involved to resolve it. We can elaborate here today a lot of questions... that are given in this report, but I'd only concentrate on a few. As far as this television programme is concerned, the Management Board's report here states that the ratings of this television are quite low. To mention the percentage of 3% to 7%, and this media house is also called RTV BiH. So the question is, why is that? What did management and editors and people working on the editorial program and television to change that in some better direction? The financial situation, so I wouldn't really be talking about it right now. The figures and the data from the audit report all talk about it. So we need to deal with the question: How can this be resolved and how can this be resolved? What they do here specifically is marketing. So, marketing, as a form of income in this house, it turns out, according to the information given here, that actually marketing services do not exist at all in this television house and that it is the Federal Television, making certain contracts with the marketing agencies in BiH, and, let's say, the Director-General is not familiar with the contracts – what are the terms of these contracts, what are the obligations, what are they, what are they actually obtained by these contracts! TV tax is required to increase it from 6 to 11 marks, starting with the facts and principles of how it is shared. For the sake of time, I would not specifically elaborate a RTV tax, although it is indicated here, criteria have been indicated for the Management Board to submit a proposal, the Regulatory Agency is giving its consent, and the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is making a decision on whether or not this RTB tax will increase. I think we should analyze that one more time and see if, respecting all the facts that this tv tax is increasing at the moment of consent... by five years of action and the work of a television house. So, respecting that fact, I think that by analysing the standard of BiH's total citizenship and the payment opportunities of people in BiH, I should approach it with caution, because I am responsiblely saying that in one part of BiH, precisely because of the programme content, because of the editorial policy for which,... to be clear and precise, it is not good for us as MPs and this home to interfere. But I have to say that there is antipathy to that television program in a certain number of viewers and citizens, precisely because of how and how certain information is placed, how certain shows tend to show and how they actually respond to certain phenomena in BiH. I will take, for example, Republika Srpska, both certain political circumstances and ambience and how this television works and how it relates to these contents. This is, of course, a special topic and I think that for such reasons, there is a dissatisfaction with a number of citizens with programs and contents of TV, and hence the lack of interest in paying for that TV tax. What apparently management has not done and has not devoted enough attention in this house besides, of course, financial-material and...... technical-organisational conditions that have been required to provide and... establish that the house would normally work, there is also a problem with the status of the personnel. It is mentioned here in the report on the work of the Management Board that it is not, that there is no good organisation of human resources in this house, therefore, that there is, somewhere around 60% of the staff with medium expertise, much less when it is with high expertise. The national 67 structure is even more disputable, because... it is said here that the Srbin in the house account for 7.9% and Hrvat 9.3%... while Bošnjak make up 67.3% of the employees in that house. If TV subscription is paid, and it is stated that it pays about 60% of the population in BiH; of the total, in fact, of the total collected RTV tax about 55% was collected... in the RS, in fact their collection is 55% in the RS, one part of the... Croatian population, one part in the Federation, where, in fact, from the citizens of Bošnjak and Hrvat watching the programme. So, if... it comes from the fact that all BiH citizens are paying, so as much as they pay that TV subscription, then normally there is a legitimate question of what is the national structure of employees in that house. Is it lawful to be like this and whether it is acceptable for someone who deals with management affairs, organisational and personnel affairs in that house to pay absolutely no attention to it, and expects to be seen in the territory of the whole of BiH and that normal ratings is significantly higher than between 3% and 7%. And I don't think it's good to be from 3% to 7%, especially in a situation where there's a tendency to turn it into a corporation with all three emitters in BiH. And, of course, here there are a number of objections that the Management Board has stated that I accept rational and reasonable in the work of this... TV houses in BiH, and I think this is a situation in this media house that is extremely serious and that, above all, the Management Board and the management team would have to entertain themselves, entertain these issues and these problems. But, of course, I think... it's so difficult that they will need help and that they will certainly not be able to do it themselves, but it should be taken into account that there are a large number of private televisions in BiH, private radios where very few people who make managers, i.e. owners of it, are very successful in organising this work of these televisions and these houses and are even considered very successful television and radio houses where they have a significant profit, achieved most on marketing, so without a TV subscription, without... support, financial support of the public, mostly based on marketing and, of course, on some additional incomes they have, which are again based on marketing activity. In that sense, I want to, therefore, bring an end to this discussion and say that we should today, I suggest that we actually make a special statement about... Business reports and the Management Board Report, and I propose that we make a statement as stated by the Commission. So, that the Business Report is not accepted, because the audit report says that business was not good and that it was negative, while I think that... The Management Board's report can be accepted and we can make a positive statement about it, although, of course, my suggestion and the proposal is that the Management Board must also further engage and make additional efforts and efforts to correct the situation. And in that direction, I would also like to draw a few conclusions that I propose on behalf of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats Club on these reports, and this is the following: therefore, we believe that the first conclusion in any case in today's statement should be the one to which the Transport and Communications Commission has stated on these reports. And that is: Taking into account the fact that the BiH institutions' audit report for the 2005 and 2006 Croatian institutions has been established there is a number of activities that do not comply with the applicable laws, it is necessary for the BiH institutions' control bodies to have an insight into the operation of RTV BiH. 68 Second: It is up to the BiH Management Board to analyse in detail the work of the Management Board, i.e. management and its engagement in the implementation of the Plan on Activities according to established conclusions of the Office for Audit, and to undertake the following activities, in accordance with the law and powers of the Management Board. Third: Management is required to immediately access the active implementation of the plan to resuscitate the negative financial and organisation-technical situation in RTV BiH. And fourth: The Governing Board and the management of RTV BiH is tasked with adopting a new concept of marketing services within 60 days, i.e. marketing services, as well as creating conditions for its effective functioning and operation of this house. I think that we must have, in the end, in mind and in the light of the fact that the workers who work there are very dissatisfied and financially-material, and also the organisational and technical conditions of work in this house and that we should certainly... make sure that both management and the Management Board, and also we today who decide on these reports are obliged, for our part, to make a positive contribution and contribution in order to do so in some way and to help those people who work in that house both the programme and the content and even the organisational concept be better in RTV BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14947	I thank the honourable Member. However, I have no moral right to restrict any discussion after this, and I will allow anyone who wants to speak as much as he wants to speak. We'll keep working as long as we can. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Is it a replica? No, I don't. Discussion! We go in order, so Bahtić, Mehmedović, Dokić, Raguž, Sokolović, Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14948	Thank you. As you said, I will start with the Commission's position on finance and budget on the opinion of the Audit Office. In... TV BiH knows that the opinion of the auditors is negative and that no one has disputed, nor are we. We are, then, even commended this report... by the auditors. They wrote all the obstacles, but I was glad that management had already set out to respect certain recommendations and had already done some, he even informed us. The Commission means to remain with these views, the situation is very, very difficult and complex. I'll list these... financial ones, how long it is, obligations are large, losses of 14 million, claims, especially concerns about federal television; absences, the 69 audit office has written that there are no rules: pay controls, systematization, internal control. Management, management has sent a decision here by signator Džon Širil to make a decision, to take general acts of the Public TV Service of BiH... in service will apply as a valid general act in the Public... TV BiH which is not contrary to the decision of the High Representative and...the board. I got that act later, and I didn't know him when we were discussing the review office. A situation inside the house? I'm looking at the Management Board and Management in the package, and it's the same for me. We, so this house needs us, that law. I wish the state corporation had been established, wouldn't these problems be as difficult today as we've got! It is not too late, and today we have to propose certain conclusions: the rehabilitation and consolidation of the house, of course, with certain deadlines and the programme of measures and thorough audits, in my opinion, needs human resources – a totally unfavourable qualification structure and the number of employees. There are three times as many employees as necessary! I said the financial situation is catastrophic. The ratings? In my opinion, the program has a significant impact on ratings, and ratings affect the financial effect. I think lately some polls have been saying that ratings are also improving on BHTV. Lately, there have been a lot of accusations, correspondence by the Management Board – management, I think we should turn to the joint business of getting out of this situation. We will follow from the Finance Commission and the budget of the Recommendation Office if it will be respected until the end. That's our job and our homework. Marketing? I put it out, and I don't like all marketing functions working by marketing agencies, and one gets even a job 70%, 80%... That can't be regular for me. It's a TV tax special, special question. It's required to increase, I said, we're going to increase, but first we fix the situation inside the house, and we're not increasing someone's loss and someone's unhappiness. Yeah, well, when we said at the tv tax, let me also say that BH Telecom 81% charge, Telekom RS 55%, HT Mostar 28%. So, Bošnjak pay the most percentage. It's illogical for me, when the tax... is collected by 25%, that the loss was a million and a half marks, the average is now over 3%, the loss is much higher. That's enough saying it wasn't taken care of that... management didn't work well. I don't want anyone now that, I've accused myself, I don't want anyone, I just want this to end, to create a real program and consolidation. Better coverage, signals? It makes no sense for me that people get lawsuits, that they have to pay, and there's no signal, and there was money, there was a donation. It's not, it's not invested in material-technical equipment. So we need to see how to settle this debt,...how to collect large claims especially federal TV, how to improve income from marketing, how to increase payment. The current situation is, believe me, unsustainable. This is a very... important medium and three broadcasters must enter into reform in all fields. That national structure? Yeah, that's what you said, okay. I was talking about the C.I.P.S. yesterday. It's the same. However, it is the state corporation that implies that every job goes to competition. And that makes me happy, every job goes to competition, so we need to go as quickly as possible to create a state corporation and make things right. 70 I got, and here, you probably got this notice, and this makes me happy... that management is that they have already removed a series of activities from the Office of Audit and will take on other activities leading to the establishment of a functional Public TV system in BiH. I think we... need to be the target for all of this. Public TV service, it is one of the conditions and entry into the EU, and it solves many of these things. That's it. That's it. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14949	I thank the honourable representative. The following came to the floor by a respected representative, Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14950	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I draw attention to Article 64(3) of the Rules of Procedure of this House, which defines what can be found as a part of the agenda. Namely, we have before us a report on the work of the Management Board of RTV BiH, BHRT, and according to Article 29. The Law on the Public Television Service point (k) where it stands, represents the Management Board, means the competence of the Management Board: It represents the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the public with annual financial plans and programme plans and reports on the implementation of these plans and programmes. It means that item 23 has no basis to be found at all on the agenda. Of course, that's my opinion. I guess you had some fat reasons why it was in the agenda, but if it's already on the agenda, then it's time to say a few words. What one colleague in this home said, analysing the report on the work, then the second report on the work, then the third updated report on the work of the Management Board, then the plan of BHRT's activities for the implementation of the recommendations of the Office for Auditing BiH institutions, then the position of the Management Board on this matter, then the letter of the Director-General concerning the position of the Management Board, etc., will see... that in this house, as one of our colleagues said, there is a problem. And there is a problem if you see that certain members of the Management Board, i.e. one member of the Management Board, are either constantly or giving out their opinions or do not want to participate in the work of the Management Board. And some of our colleagues are constantly calling for consensus as a form of decision, not only in this home but in all institutions of importance for BiH, which, come on, we can say is kind of acceptable. I'm surprised that's the kind of decision-making that doesn't apply in this... The board of directors. Namely, this report by the Management Board is abundant by pointing fingers at a previous board of directors, previous management, etc. Here, they chose the director of BHRT! When I say choose yourself, so no one asked us anything here but they chose the man they think... can function best. Here, I welcome that. It hasn't been a year, here's the problem with that director. What's that supposed to mean? So that director or management should just bend his head and air-conditioned head and approve of what the Management Board really wants. 71 I find this practice unacceptable. Unacceptable because here in the Management Board's report mentions some illegal activities, criminal acts, etc. The audit report is clear and loud, he is who he is. It can't be talked about criminal actions, it can be about lack of regulations, non-compliance with regulations in terms of... double legal regulations, because it is not known which regulations will apply in the absence of regulations, sublegal acts etc. But certainly the previous board of directors should take off their hats and say that he did something. However, this BHT1 exists and did not exist. So if the goal of this agenda is that we're just verifying someone, here's the draw, what was before, is no good, and what we're going to see. Then I don't think this part of the agenda should have been found to even consider it. On the other hand, what's most dangerous in this whole thing is an attempt – and unfortunately, I think it's better at moving forward – mixing into editorial policy. In fact, the lack of independence of editorial policy. How? The Director and Management shall be limited to the consumption of 10 000 marks without the position of the Management Board, i.e. without a decision of the Management Board. And even seriously, any show can't be made or bought for 10,000 marks. Which means that the chairman of the Management Board with the mechanisms to be decided will also decide on the editorial policy, which will be broadcast, how it will be paid, where it will be paid, etc. Although also on Republika Srpska's TV and on Federal TV, the director has the authority of up to 100,000 marks, because even a serious show... cannot be purchased below 30,000 marks. I therefore believe that this report of the Management Board was unnecessary towards this home, because today we had a plan and programme on the agenda for both the financial and the work programme for the following year 2008, it would be acceptable, or a report on the implementation for 2006, here if it is not finished in 2007, and I think it is near the end. So I'll be free to say that the solution to the problem in this house is actually the establishment of a corporation which is also the obligation of this, in the first place, to the Management Board, to establish a corporation.... The BiH Public Television Service, where the Governing Board includes exactly three boards of directors of this television house, i.e. these three TV services. So I'll be free to suggest two conclusions. 1. Since the reform of the Public TV Service in BiH is one of the preconditions, the remaining conditions for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the Governing Board of the Public TV System of BiH to take urgent and concrete activities at the establishment of a public service corporation, in accordance with the provisions of the Public TV Service Act. Dead end of the year. At the same time, the Parliamentary Assembly is calling for the Federation of BiH Parliament to end the procedure for the adoption of the federal law on public TV service as soon as possible. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly obliges the BiH Public TV System Management Board to prepare and propose by the end of the year to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, or the Council of Ministers, a plan for the financial consolidation of all three broadcasters in the system, so that the public service corporation can start working with clean accounts. 72 I believe that these two conclusions would actually contribute to the realization, that is, solving the problem that I was talking about that exists in this house, that is, in this area. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14951	So it's an incorrect quote. The first came the distinguished representative Raguž, then the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović, and then the distinguished representative Marković. Is Jozo the same?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14952	Correction of an incorrect quote, I'll do it for a while. ... So, the esteemed representative Mehmedović said on several occasions that this should not have been on the agenda. With all due respect to certain quality of his and his grades and suggestions, I believe that this should absolutely be on the agenda and that there is a foothold in the law. And I will read to you Article 29 where it is spoken and where we have established the jurisdiction of the Management Board where under k is said to: The Management Board represents the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the public annual financial plans and plans of the programme as well as reports on the implementation of these. I see this as a report by that Management Board under Article 29 and as a general assumption that we are talking about plans that need to be talked about, I agree. But in order to plan something, we must first determine what is the situation, what is the situation in this institution, and, secondly, this institution has appointed these members of the Management Board. He's right, although it doesn't say it in the law, ask them to make an account here and in front of the public, and later on, I'll be in...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14953	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14954	I have to say, at the very beginning, that I imagined completely differently today's debate, but here I now have the only need to replicate the part of the discussion of the distinguished representative Mehmedović who said and asked the question in which way, that is, why and how this point of the agenda was found, is it specific weight? I was, first, finally too pleased to have at least something on the agenda, which is one of the few conditions, but very specific weights for what is right in front of BiH. I must remind you: this reform was one of the 18 steps map times that was realized in the period 2001. – 2003, then it became an integral part of the fissibility study that was implemented in the period 2003. - 2005. And then, as part of it, that is, the midway that the EU has promoted for countries such as BiH, i.e. the countries of the stabilisation and accession process, became part of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, was part of the paraphrasing of this agreement. It is a condition for the signing of this reform agreement in this area. We may not have everything we need to look at this, but don't think that this is anything less than police reform, and if we make at least a slight shift today, because we have the same specific weight in terms of what is right in front of us, when it comes to 73 fulfilling obligations, if there's anything we can do today to help these people, I welcome and respect, in that sense, the specific weight of all these points that are ahead of us. If we're going to be dragged away in terms of criticizing the way we operate, etc., dealing with some things a little bit narrow, not seeing the whole picture, in terms of helping all those who work on these jobs, I'm afraid it's both extra and this point today. I understood that we are all aware of the specific weights of the reform of the Public TV system... which is one of the four arms of the TV, i.e. this service, the public service, part of the documents concerning... Work report, etc. Today we have it in front of us. But whatever we do today, if it's a move towards the end, we meet this condition, it'll be fine. If we start dealing with ourselves, or some internal things or certain partial segments, not understanding the whole picture, then I'm afraid we missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14955	Thank you. This is called a very skillful use of correcting an incorrect quote for early inclusion in the debate. But you need skill... to respect. The next is Commissioner Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14956	Well, I have an incorrect quote on the presentation, namely the proposal of counterpart Mehmedović, who said, I think it would be the final conclusion: To propose to the Management Board or management, but as he suggested, to make a plan for the financial consolidation of all three broadcasters of RTV BiH. And in doing so, the incorrect allegation is that these three broadcasters that are located in RTV BiH, therefore, this finding cannot in any way refer to Republika Srpska's tv, first of all from the fact that we have one other document on the agenda today. So the document applies only to BiH, RTV BiH, their business report and their financial, or audit report of the house. And the other thing that disproves it, he said, is the fact that TV RS is nowhere near as it is in a financial position in which... there is TV BiH and that this cannot possibly apply to them. So I suggest to you, colleague Mehmedović, that you correct it in time so that this whole conclusion is not questioned. And by the way, when I answered, if you're letting me say that we can't look at this material today, act like we don't see and notice all the problems that are going on. I agree that it is very important that BiH has state television, but we have such a TV that breathes on appliances, which would say for a patient who is in critical condition. So don't just justify it by the fact that we have it, at all costs. I did, and that's why I advocated in the discussion that we, however, discuss all things, because if the RS television subscribers there are, say, a million and a half, if one million 74 residents are going to pay for a TV subscription, then the question must be asked: Why is 6% of the Srbin employed in that television and not more? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14957	I thank the honourable representative. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes, for technical reasons, it's nothing else. The power needs to be turned off for a few minutes for some reason, so the technique. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14958	Who is it? Dear Ambassador Dokić, it is your turn to discuss. _________(?) Can I just hand over this document? [[no microphone turned on]] Who? _________(?) The service... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14961	I thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14962	Dear Ambassador Raguž, I did not chair the session. I am now being informed that honourable MP Mehmedović has a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14963	It's all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14964	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14965	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am obliged to respond to some of these replicas that followed my presentation. In fact, Mr. Honorable colleague Raguž read 75 in fact from Article 29. Law dot k) which I have also read. And it accurately and clearly defines what the Governing Board's obligation to this home is. And, therefore, I didn't say anything different than you did. So it's in a formal sense. Maybe we shouldn't have had a point of 23, but we should have discussed these problems a long time ago. And that's why I didn't ask this question when setting the agenda, but right now, here, I'm expressing some of my reservations about it. As for the replica of the esteemed representative of the Milica, I certainly appreciate that you said that there is no need for financial consolidation of the RS TV as an emitter. Why? Well, if you read the Management Board report correctly, then you'll see why. But I've put them in brackets as three emitters in the composition of a corporation that needs to be formed. And no financial consolidation of RTRS is required for the reasons listed on page 7. Reports of the Management Board point 6. TV tax, which says the rate of charge over BH Telecom is 81%, over HT Mostar 28%, and via Telekom RS 56%. If you calculate the population number, the number of subscribers, etc., we will see why no financial consolidation of RTRS is required. And what's not mentioned in this report, that's how you charge the tv fee. It's not just a billing fee from these operators, it's a telecom operator, it's got a so-called. That service... I don't know exactly what it's called, the incasanti, is it, that makes payment. Therefore, these funds are not even shown anywhere, which is why I respect what you said. There is no need for financial consolidation, but it is, so all three of these operators are composed of future, future corporations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14966	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž, if you're in the mood. All right, here's Ambassador Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14967	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Raguž, since the chairman has read to you the opinion of the Communications and Transport Commission, I am now not going to speak as president of the Commission, but will speak... as an MP. We have serious, serious reports about a very important BiH institution ahead of us. It is the Public TV Service, and the report of the audit and management report and the report on the work of the Management Board. I want to look immediately at the challenge of setting up a agenda like this. Indeed, the reasons do not stand, there is complete legal justification. These reasons have been taken over by counterpart Plamenko Čustović, whom I deeply appreciate and sincerely respect, and this is his not standing behind this report and the reasons that it is not by law are the consequences that this report refers to the period when he was chairman of the Management Board and that is his way of getting out of this whole story. I think it's a very serious matter and no one has the right to come out of this story, nor is it good that we give this story any national omens such as any attempts, here in previous and previous discussions. The fact is that the public service has and is burdened by 76 huge problems, above all, with financial character that threatens to happen if the law is followed and the service is closed. So, the key question, the legal option is not to predict bankruptcy, but to abolish. I Malopre got off the phone with the director of the ex-wife, and he consulted on these questions. I don't want to mention it. So we can't let that happen. That's why we have to do everything we can to keep it from happening. I'm going to talk later about these gaps that were spotted, which were recorded by the auditory house, but before that, there was a series of objective circumstances that led to this. We need to be honest here and let me take the right... to talk about it because I am one of those who, behold, participated intensively in the creation of this law, and also in solving many of the issues that were burdened by the Public TV Service. Please note that the legislation adopted by this Parliament has been passed that the management has been acting under the directives of so-called. A TV agent who was a stranger. And I'm asking you a question what kind of management would that be at that time when there were strangers and they were asking that management or they could change it one way or another, you know that, because there wasn't even a legal basis, could it have worked differently than how it worked? There were those who publicly opposed it, and one of them was the one who spoke, so they called me out in public. And I think it's a good thing that we passed that law that we passed and created the assumption that... to establish all the necessary procedures that in the end – as we imagined when we passed the law – created the assumption that the Public TV system as a whole, so I, counting all three services would be financially sustainable from what...they do. We're here now talking about the billability of a tv fee, before it was called a subscription. But great efforts have been made to turn the assumption of a TV subscription in people's minds, and to realize that it's a legal liability tax. I just want to remind you that before this law, on the basis of which every management should be working in the future, that this subscription was equal to, at that time, less than 35%, even somewhere on the BiH level, somewhere, it seems to me, 25%, 28%, that it is now increased to over 60%. So that same leadership, here's the two years we're talking about now, has done enough to improve that condition. Of course, we don't have to be happy with the team. They have to, the management must do whatever it takes to make that tax, chargeable tax, much higher than it is...... and now. The fact is that management was burdened by an old personnel structure and that, I have to take a critical look at it, that there was no power after the establishment of a system and service law to carry out a human resources rationalization that was mandatory. You well remember that there were BBC models, or programs, and according to these programs each of these three services had an obligation to significantly reduce the number of employees. Some people took it seriously, but it seems to me that BHRT didn't take it seriously, and here we have no cuts, reduction. Chuck, we have an increase in the number of employees in this service. Here was the report on the work of the Management Board, so some findings were made that absolutely do not stand. If you take a closer look, this short report on the work of the Management Board does not state any of the only findings that have not been made in the audit report. Now we can ask whether the state auditors, so to speak, have done their job professionally or not. I have no reason to doubt their professionality and correctness in writing this report, and I can tell you that the 77 Communication and Transport Commission has been managed and in these scurvy conclusions we have made, it has been conducted by the auditors. I also want to point out that we in the Commission, estimating the seriousness of the situation, have sought the Management Board's report, that we have taken it back several times, asking that the audit report be completed and that we have a complete picture of the whole situation, just counting on our weakness which we have not released and we will not get rid of it for a long time – that we are giving every story a national omen whether it has an excuse for it or no justification for it. What I must stress, and what is the obligation and management of RTV BiH and the Management Board, is that, as soon as possible, they bring their business into line with the law under which they must operate and there is no justification. So everything has to be in accordance... with the law. In this respect, I would particularly draw attention to those things that relate to financial operations, depending on whether they can function or cannot. First of all, here are the auditors, I am now talking about what the auditors have pointed out in their report that there is disrespect for Article 23. The Law on the Public TV System according to which three public broadcasters coordinate the system on marketing services. Marketing services are obviously a major problem that will have to be resolved immediately and the Commission has proposed that they must introduce new procedures into marketing, adopt a new strategy, however you will, from the beginning of next year. Someone suggested 60 days. It can't be 60 days. They've been going from the beginning of the calendar year to the end of this year. The Commission insisted that they go in with new procedures, a new strategy by which services will be trained to do the job, not that the work is done by various agencies, which according to this report, if it is correct but here I am building, 70% of it benefit the agency, and no, no, not the services. In particular, the same question is the non-compliance with the law on the distribution of these marketing services; absolutely that the law must be respected as it is, until we change it, it must be... done so. What the Governing Board does, so I don't separate the Management Board and the new management has to work on is to create marketing conditions that the marketing time of public service is much more efficient than it is now. You know very well that we had... No, look, if my colleague Križanović is bored and doesn't want to hear this, I'll finish right now, I don't care.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14968	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14969	Yeah, I'm sorry. You know well that when we passed this law, great remarks by commercial broadcasting services – that it was too public service for marketing services which, I think, seem to be how much! Eight? How much? _________(?) Six minutes an hour. 78 Six minutes per hour of program! They thought it was a lot. But look at the report, they haven't even used those six minutes. So we can't be satisfied with this kind of strategy and their approach to this job. These are the key things that we need to discuss, which parliament should make, to make decisions. When it comes to subscription, the law clearly defines that there must be a database and that database should have a state service... that must be available at any time and entity services and that the collection of broadcasting fees can be monitored daily through that database. It's not there. So that's what an emergency has to do. Accounting policies must be adopted, etc., which is detailed in the audit report, and I will not list it again, because I am really behind everything that is stated in the audit report. I want to point out here, to point out another problem that exists at the state service. Perhaps the BiH Public Radio Television Service is the most important joint institution. The media is the key to realising and implementing policies and policies, however you like. If you consider that, then the first institution in which it must be... represented the human balance is the very institution, in order to remove the initial assumption that software content is being created that is not for all citizens of BiH. That balance doesn't exist now. Just before someone said that, here I will quote from the report: 7.9% of Srbin, 9.3% of Hrvat and 3.7% of others. Here to be honest, although I don't quite understand this – the Management Board's report says: 67.3 Bošnjak and 11.7% Bosanac. I don't know where this came from, whether this was supposed to be under the others or if this is some new category, whether this is a new, new part of the constitution in BiH, similar. This is the topic that Parliament... needs to discuss. Further, so this is where you have to look for ways to balance. I understand he's hard to establish at level '91. years, but this is a total imbalance, so we understand each other. And I need to look back here on some of the reactions that came out of the Communications and Transport Commission. Now, I'm going to say openly, this is the kind of discussion I had on that committee. In public, information has come out that here is the President of the Commission looking for a cleanup in BHRT. It's absolutely incorrect, it doesn't stand. Niko one asked for a cleanup, but here, once again, in front of the public and in front of all of you I ask the management that, in some due time, it is difficult to set deadlines, to understand, that a better balance must be established than it is now. And right away, that's the answer to the current director of the gentleman,...I think he's here somewhere, because on the Commission there was a story, in that sense, that it would be established or will be resolved through the corporation and that would solve the issue of extra BHRT workers through the corporation. It absolutely doesn't stand. The people in the corporation will be employed by the competition and the people in the corporation will be from all three public broadcasters. That's how it's imagined, and that's how it's supposed to be realized. Therefore, the solution to the extra workers issue will not be achieved through the creation of a corporation. And I'll end up with a corporation. Under the law, the corporation is the fourth legal entity within the public broadcasting system and should work to establish it as soon as possible. Unfortunately, there are no legal bases at this time, legal assumptions for establishment. You know very well that BHRT has asked for the opinion of the resolution ministry, and here you have the opinion that 79 are interpreted as a member, I think, 42. The Law on the Public Television System. The opinion was signed by Minister Ljubić in December, and that was also on the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it is necessary to establish an FTV Management Board, and it has not been established because it is still the law.......not passed, waiting for the Constitutional Court. When that assumption is realized, it is necessary to urgently go to the formation, the formation of a corporation. But before forming a corporation, the financial situation must be brought to zero. I don't want to talk about these two services that are in the jurisdiction of the entity and with them, of course, but here we go from this service. So the financial situation has to be brought to zero, there's got to be a recovery program. Whether we talk about it today or not, who's going to make it and how we're going to hire the Management Board and the Management Board to do it, that's an assumption without which you can't enter a joint entity. In order to get in evenly, in order for that corporation to respond to those many tasks set before it, it has, it must have a stable way of funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14971	Thank you. I repeat the appeal to the MPs that we try to complete this item of the agenda today, that all the conclusions you wrote be delivered here. They're going to glasati on the conclusions and we're going to finish today's work. I can see your hands. Dear MP Hadžiahmetović, the honourable MP Izetbegović, has been correcting the wrong allegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14972	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14973	Is there a discussion with you? Then only the honourable Member Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14974	Here, my colleague Dokić – although he is very, most important to me – has finished his discussion and it is the formation of a corporation but I will talk about it later. He mentioned, among other things, that there are no legal assumptions for forming a corporation because there is no FTV Management Board. Please, the FTV Management Board exists! Until he chooses a new one, it doesn't work. An integral part of this Management Board's system, as Mr Dokić knows very well, consists of the Management Board and FTV. The board of the system functions together, so with the gentleman... here's a correction for me if I'm wrong, three boards of directors, whether, three broadcasters make up the Board of the System -- they work. In this report, which you have read very carefully, you also have about the work of the Board of the System in which members of the Board of Directors, i.e. the FTV Management Board, are participating, until a new one is selected, just as it works, the RTRS Management Board in this composition is working until a new one is chosen, is it? Thank you. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14975	Thank you. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14976	I would like to recommend to my Kolegica Azra the opinion of the Resolute Ministry of September this year. The law in Article 42 explicitly states that new boards will first be elected and that these boards of directors make up, make... The Committee of the System and this Recommendation: until new boards are elected, which is defined in the Law on the TV System, to be understood, concerns that certain services can function until new boards are elected. And so is their interpretation. Here I am, I agree with that interpretation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14977	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14978	Well, I'm surprised that Mr. Dokić was a resolute minister who, among other things, was in charge of law enforcement. Let me remind you of this Law on the TV system was adopted, or published in the “Official List” 8.11.2005. At the time, Mr Dokić was a minister. Article 42 of that Law says: The Constitutional Session of the Committee of the System will be convened within 15 days of the date of appointment of a sufficient number of members of the Management Board of Public Services to form a quorum of the Committee of the Systems. Until the establishment of the System Committee and the individual Committee of Public Services, the existing Management Boards will carry out their duties. It's a finished quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14979	Thank you. I'm going to read the log-in order now. So, honourable MP Raguž, pa Križanović, pa Hadžiahemtović, Jovičić, Sokolović, Suljkanović, Okolić, Lozančić. The rest of you will be after that. Here you go, in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14980	Thank you. Here I am, no matter what this embargo is taken down for three minutes, I will try to be in that frame. If I step over a little bit, don't mind me, there's a lot of questions here. And here, I would like to support the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović, who has invited us all together to try to fully consider this problem, not partially, and here I will try, how much I will succeed, we will see. 81 When I thought about how to open this issue, not to be emotional or hypernational, but to try to be reasoned, then I remembered one thing – that this law was passed in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and other institutions, so I will have to, for both the public and the stenogram, and also for the future, to say that this law was passed against the will of Croatian, most Croatian MPs in the House of Representatives, against the will of the Croatian National Club in the House of People and against the will of the judges of the Croatian people in the Constitutional Court of BiH, where the vital national interest was filed. And that's the position -- constitutional, and I wouldn't comment any further. And since - we respect the rule of law - this law is in force, as it is, I will try to analyze what this law has produced in practice and what the result is and the relationship between the provisions of this law and the one that has been provided to us by the two boards of directors. I have here this report signed by Mr Drago Marić for 2006, if I am not mistaken, and Mr Deretić for 2007, is that right. And we still have this audit report. So let me get going. First of all, I would just quote what experts say about the role of public TV services, which is very important because it is a reform course and in order to be whole. This is Azra to say, and the commitment on the Euro-Atlantic road, so what did he say... Radio-television as Public Service, New York 2001. One of the functions prescribed by public broadcasters is also the attitude towards building a public sphere. This is the key role of this public service: to build a public that can follow democratic standards, support positive processes and be a service to every man in BiH. I think a special session should, gentlemen, and I haven't found in your grades how much that role has been achieved through these reforms that both the one and the other board of directors have been doing. I'm not going to criticize, I'm just saying those grades I didn't find in this report. The second thing, and that's the foundation at all, if you want to be that factor of public opinion creation, then you'll have marketing, motivated people to pay for commercials there, you'll have motivated people to pay for TV subscription. Without that, I will therefore,... try to sum up all my debate in just one conclusion: that according to this law, in force under Article 29. The Management Board shall present within 30 days to this Parliament... and the commitment of the financial plan and the programming plan for the following year. And there she would be, and then we have an excuse for why we talked about this today. So we'll see what's the role of us to help them achieve their function, what's theirs in... I really don't mean anything negatively troublesome through these reports either. I think that's where an atmosphere was created that shouldn't, because people on the previous board of directors, from this report, I see, have done a huge job. And on the new board of directors, too. I will only indicate here what is, what were the frameworks for the past: stabilising the programming scheme, marking the 5th anniversary of existence, expanding the transmission emissions network, further increasing the charges and a number of other things that have been done and which have created assumptions that, however, we have some positive tendencies on this radioservis as well. But please, can we remain calm to the fact that Article 8 provides, says: 1. In carrying out activities and in the human resources structure of BHRT, it implements relevant constitutional provisions in relation to the equal rights of the constituent peoples and others in BiH. 2. The programmes will be adapted to the needs of the constituent peoples and citizens of BiH, edited and broadcast equally in three official languages and two letters. 82 Well, when you take this data that we have in this report: that we have a thousand employees, and now – not to repeat what some MPs have said, to rationalise time, especially in certain segments – I think that the Management Board and Management cannot escape responsibility for maintaining such a situation, i.e. non-functioning, as far as possible. I know it's not easy to quit to anyone, nor should you quit, but the fact is that a thousand people in a country like this with such a GDP on the Public TV service is, in my opinion, absolutely unsustainable, it's a mastodont and I don't know who can finance it, and that quality programs are made and that... production and placement of programs, not social, social dimension... through public service and law. And what I would say - marketing! We have here data that this year, 2006, in the first half of the year, it fell by half, compared to that year. If I understood, 3 million were planned, a million and a half were achieved, and can't be justified – in that year there was no World Cup in this one. I mean... it's someone's got to make that money, someone's got to create it, if it was that plan, and someone's got to be responsible if that plan isn't realised. And this data billing over bh. Operator? So we have a difference: the weakest HT Eronet, because they cover the most part of it, and that space, the electoral unit from which I come, I call on management, so I don't refer to criticism, I call on them to take steps like they did recently in Neum to boost the TV signal of the Public TV service, not only here but wherever people should be able to watch. If I can watch, they can, they'll probably pay. But replacing the notion that this should be paid – people cannot even look at it at all, especially the attitude towards the program and the motivation of such information... So there's a lot of homework and work to do together to get an ambience in which you can responsibly lead this institution but also answer to the public... Named but it doesn't really work, it doesn't go the way it should. [[You can't hear me.]] Or where it says in the report on the work of this Management Board that some of these things will be corrected by the appointment of the main and responsible editor of the information program, as far as I have the information, I may be wrong, which should have been the Hrvat. Now, as some improvement in this whole thing and which should be appointed after a public tender that was completed two months ago and people say, as far as I am concerned,... has not yet been appointed because someone has ruled, at their own free will, that it is not mature to be named. What are these subjective and what are other motives... that someone who can lead in terms of management or anything? I don't know everyone who's responsible here right now without submitting any information. Here, I don't have the information, I'm not going to say it's not for legitimate reasons, but there have to be some fat reasons why it hasn't been done. And to make this role... Public TV service as a key instrument – I agree with Mr Dokić – one of the most important instruments in this country at all if we want to be a democratic society, we realize, then this is just the beginning of a serious story: somewhere where it has not been – in institutions. There was a story in the OHR or some circles... I think that we are all well-intentioned and that we want to ensure that both the people who work there and all the parts of this system and the corporations tomorrow and the entity and public tv service according to the law and the Constitution can play their part. That should be our role. We are only today, in my opinion, opening and I propose and I have suggested that we have a debate in 30 days – what is the plan for next year so that we have some frameworks, deadlines and that we stick to all of our commitments together. Here, thank you very much. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14981	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14982	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I really promise I won't break this limit, because I won't comment either on the Business Report or on the Board's work. I come from the primary task of this House. I think... that we should discuss this, that this is a very serious thing, that we have a problem, that we have a... abandoned state in the Public Television Service of BiH and we should have discussed this when the affair turned out, the one with the shift of directors! From then on, we have nothing qualitatively new in information or in the movement about the state of the service. We only have two roles as Parliament towards this – the appointment of the Management Board and a serious response to the warning or asking for assistance from the Management Board of the RTV Service. I can't think of any way to comment on whether the cost of travel or renting or advertising is like this, like that, etc. but it is very important that this, which is something that Raguž has already said better, that our task is to discuss programming and editorial policy in this service because there is no one else, there is no one else, because we, through the Management Board, represent the citizens of BiH, or the public in that service. However, objectively here I will only give one criticism to us. Of course, the people of BiH are dissatisfied with the quality and coverage of this BHT1 programme, but it is unacceptable that... from this Parliament our colleagues are going to appeal to the public not to pay a tv tax, calls for public violations of the law. We have examples like that. I'm really not going to deal with this any further, and I have, in that sense, one, to say, a formulated conclusion. So I don't explain it, it's the easiest thing to do. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives expresses both dissatisfaction and concern about the general situation in JRT BiH and gives time to the BiH Public Broadcasting Service Management Board until 1.3 next year to establish a comprehensive programme of measures to overcome this situation and establish the functioning of this service by ensuring that its basic role is met, especially from the point of view of programme, editorial policy, as well as the overall quality of the programme. Why is this a summary conclusion? I am joining, therefore, on the trail of my colleague Raguž to hold a thorough debate in this house afterwards, in the sense that the report, namely the programme of activities and measures to be set up by the Management Board, see what this Parliament's task is. Whether it is necessary to amend a law that will go in terms of improving the situation in that house or whether this home will conclude that it has made a bad choice in the appointment of the Management Board. We can't communicate with management. I don't know who else. This home has given its trust to the Governing Board and expects it to do its job seriously and responsibly. Thank you. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14983	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14984	Thank you. This, I will repeat briefly that I am pleased that this is how the College of Parliament has put the agenda points together and that we have also had the Audit Report and all these papers that came to us as a contribution, that is, the basis for the debate for this agenda point together, so maybe we are just like that, I really don't even know if I would have gotten the right picture if I hadn't read everything. And, and then, of course, it also encouraged me to read something else. Again, it's a very important, important topic. I think we're going to stop here a lot more and these people, who need to implement this important reform, are going to have a lot more problems than we're going to have with police reform. I, in that sense, remind myself that this is an identical treatment, let's say, this kind of reform that's already traveled a little longer than police reform. I mentioned a little bit of this chronology earlier, but I think it is particularly important to mention the importance that we have also received a report on the work of the Public Broadcasting Service and the Management Board Report, although, of course,... they were not obliged to deliver it to us like this. It's a good thing we have a complete picture. At the same time, of course, the audit report – here mentions some elements of independent audit houses and all that followed, therefore, the supply of Parliament for today's debate. However, what I was missing – can I continue – what I was missing and what I really feel is missing, both here and as... one whole of the picture, is a report on the work of the Public TV system. So let me remind you. When we passed the laws, we passed the Law on the Public TV System of BiH and the Law on Public TV Service as two compatible laws, where the Law on TV service was practically a single segment of the entire system, the whole picture. So here, the reform of this system refers to the entire system of which the public tv service is just one. I'm saying why this is the most important thing. First, let me remind you that the foundations of this reform were established in 1998 by the Memorandum of System Reform, so 10 years ago. We've been wearing this for 10 years... as a problem that we don't end in a reform sense. Let me remind you that in 2001, seven years ago, with the help of the international community and the OHR, the key to reform was defined in the next three directions. To establish a state media that was established as a public service, and I ask if, by chance, in terminology, I'm wrong to be corrected. So a state media was established, establishing a public tv system with a corporation. To remind you, the system consists of three broadcasters plus corporations, so a total system with four entities and a rationalization of the system in order to ensure financial self-sustainability and software independence. These were the foundations that were established seven years ago. Some of this has been realized, something hasn't yet. In short, I remind you that the implementation plan of the reform predicted that BHRT, therefore as a Public Service, would start next to the start of the public service corporation and that the legal provision on the distribution of income, e.g. On the basis of the RTT tax and marketing, the issue of complementarity of the four parts of this system shall be applied in full, in particular. We have three parts, no fourth. Let me just remind you, for those who may not have been more careful to remind themselves of the legal provisions, that fourth missing part is very important... and for the technical part, for 85 investments and signal coverage and what someone, even, from the Commission, particularly apostrophyd, and the distribution of funds. But don't forget, when it comes to funds, it's also revenues, revenues from taxis and revenues from marketing, so some house is scheduled to sell, etc. This or the previous Management Board has established, I do not know as a temporary, is it, an organ – a house of sale, although it is an integral part of the corporation that has not been established. Why do I refer to this a little bit? Let's try to understand, but then again, I'm only talking about the direction and the most in the direction... to encourage and help those in charge of this reform, to end it as quickly and as painlessly as possible. There were amazing materials here that were ahead of us, findings, etc. I have to say, as an economist, that I find it surprising, let's say, that control authorities are called on to control business insights, while at the same time control bodies that make insight into both financial and not just financially – are in, for example, this service. We have had this review report in front of us and what may have been forgotten to register what is most important in that report that the problem is incomplete regulation, i.e. the problem of non-application and selective application of laws relating to this area. And don't let us reach out to the selective approaches of all this, because then we're going to go to the question that we're dealing with some of these internal relations between existing services that should be part of something completely new that hasn't even started yet. Something's blended in, something hasn't even been established yet, so we have this new one, and we don't. We have this board. What I said was missing – a report from the Committee of the System. The system board consists of three boards of directors, three broadcasters. The Board of the System shall be chaired by the Chair of the Management Board of the Public Service. The Board of the System shall have its responsibilities and the Board of the System shall have its responsibilities, etc. and perhaps this report from the Board of Systems, which I must admit, would be part of this last one, one of three, three reports that we received or one of the three reports of the Management Board, would include activities related to the Committee of the Systems. Thank you, I only saw then... what he does. Why am I saying this? One out of three, we've got three reports on the board's work. I first wondered why three, if anyone was fighting here, but of course every report made up, gave another extra dimension, though,... but I have no intention of getting involved... in the details of these qualifications, quantification etc. Because here, let's say, in the first report, Mr Deretić – so I asked you earlier in the break who put it together, let's say, in the first report – the income is 4,49 million marks, which is 8% less than the plan. The second report, which follows us in less than a month, says that income is 5.9 million marks, means 13% growth. The data is 2006, it's not the first, I don't know how many months of 2007. But not to get into the details, here, obviously there are... a lot of issues that could be raised and fundamental issues – why the laws have not been implemented since 2005!? I think that this parliament needs to be dealt with, in that part of how competent this parliament is. This Parliament has brought, to remind you, two laws – the Law on the System and the Law on Public TV Service. They entered into force in 2005, one in November, one in December. Here in some of these individual segments of these reports that we have no time for and I have no intention of talking about each, but I could talk about each of them for half an hour, an hour, especially if we were to concentrate on talking segmentally, we were segmentally and we were going back into the past. I have no intention, I intend only to point... at something and help you or to encourage everyone to help those who are in charge to... If they have problems, to stand at their disposal, but to end this reform because it's important to us and I'm going to tell 86 really, it seems to me that it can be more problematic to us than reform, than the other conditions. In that sense, I'll remind you, here may not be systematic but there's really a lot of material in front of us that are the basis for discussion and respecting the specific weight of this, I'm sorry that we're limited to anything, I really have to say it. It would be good for us here five times to get someone out of the board of directors, out of management, out of the audit, and all of us here, if we have to, but to finish this job, or to encourage, in a way, to create a basis to encourage all of that. A lot of things have happened... that have contributed to all of this. It just surprises me that someone who knows this very well, who took a very good part in all of this, receives perhaps for that and the salary, makes some constructions in his discussion – I, of course, Mr Dokić will recognize himself – he makes some constructions in his discussion that can cause an avalanche here of controversy, corrections of the wrong quote, etc. I don't want to talk like that, I don't want to look into the past, I don't want to look for the guilty, I don't want to do anything, we're dealing with something that's inside of any of these subjects, because that's where we're going to find anything, please nice, and I'm not going to do the review report. I have to say that the audit that I greatly appreciate, the audit reports that I greatly respect, the audit reports that have always been my basis for something, I was, for example, Surprised that in the audit, the audit report – perhaps not, perhaps, it was missing, perhaps because of limited space, I want to believe that it is so, that we haven't found, let's say, because everyone here is referred to the distribution of income, on the revenues from taxis, is referred to marketing – the conclusions on marketing services are proposed and I'm going to tell you: this corporation, or the system, among other things, has obliged this law to set up a single account. This unique account is that all revenues from tv taxis go to marketing revenues, i.e. marketing services that are realised by all of this and that all of this is distributed in those ratios. Here it insists on distribution ratios, and no one insists on why marketing revenues don't go there to the Single Account. Are there any? The audit has given a fine warning that the law is being partially implemented, but I want to tell you that all the problems stemmed from the fact that these laws did not apply. And who will be responsible? Will this Parliamentary Assembly, too, or are we here, or are some institutions, going to look for the culprit for this? I'm not the reason we're looking for the culprit, but let's draw a line, encourage all of that. Why am I going back to reform, or the system? TV service, or television, Public service is part of this system. She was established with these laws. It was produced or part of the basis for it was a previous TV set that was the way it was. It's got these two entity televisions, just like they are. If we take a partial look at each of these subjects, we're going to find a lot of problems from the angle of what it takes to represent one system. But let's get to the point where we put what we have on the table, what we're missing, to round up that system so that when the dice come together and show some problems, we can solve these problems! If the existing laws are insufficient, if necessary, then we'll advance them! If this Parliament is to initiate, perhaps, some decisions from other authorities both at the state and entity level, let's do it! If we are to enable Mr. Deretić, who is in these legal circumstances, and fortunately and unfortunately, knowing what is the situation and what problems he faces, if we should... bring him to a financial zero as chairman of the Committee of the System, let's do something in that direction! So look, FTV owes this Public Service, these are debts that came from a period when it wasn't this system, when they weren't these entities in this role and in this system. BH TV has some accumulated debt, we don't have 87, there's no investment, what kind of modernisation, information, optical cables, signal coverage, that we don't talk software promotions, it's all going to be a dream if we discuss it the way we talk. In that sense, I will suggest a few conclusions, of course, on behalf of the club and my conclusions, I deeply hope that no one will be offended when he reads or listens to these conclusions, as much as I have wondered how valuable it is to write them and suggest them because they refer to the implementation of the laws passed two years ago, unimplemented, and that we are here wondering and constantly dealing with who's guilty of something, or that we are dealing with ourselves. I don't mean here, we within Parliament, but generally everyone in this, in this story. I will remind you that this Law on the Public TV System provides for Article 7 which has been published, again, in the Official Messenger of BiH, No. 78, 8 November 2005 (see, after two years and more, I suggest that it be implemented): That the Committee of the System, which is at the same time the Management Board of the Corporation, is subject to the Law on the Public TV System, Article 13 and chaired by the Management Board of the Public TV Service, that immediately, I am here so much, respecting the weight of all of this, by the end of 2007 (but... if it is immediately in the beginning of January, can be tolerated), undertake all actions, not to say yesterday, take all the actions referred to in Article 8. The Law on the Public TV System and forms the BiH Public TV Service Corporation as part of a public broadcasting system in BiH. The reason here is that this law, which came into force in November 2005, established the obligation of this committee to approve the statute of the corporation within 30 days – imagine, after two years, we propose that something that should have been implemented more than two years ago – therefore, from the day of the establishment session, it is approved by the statute of the corporation and access to the formation and registration of a corporation which, together with three existing broadcasters, constitutes a system of public broadcasting. I won't say that all the problems with the corporation will be solved. Part of the problem, national discrepancy, finance, income distribution, etc., will be, part will be resolved, but will be implemented by law. What remains as unresolved, this parliament should be at its disposal to help resolve. Second conclusion: If the Transport and Communications Commission were to be in charge,... by chance Mr Dokić is chairman, to oversee the implementation of the Law on the Public TV System and the establishment of a service corporation, thus establishing a public broadcasting system. The Commission shall report to this Parliament. Why this conclusion? The Law on the Public TV System entered into force in November 2005. It is recalled that this law provides for the approval of the corporate statute and the establishment of a public broadcasting system within 30 days and that the corporation is not yet formed, and given the role of the Parliamentary Assembly in the adoption and implementation of the law, therefore control of the implementation, it is proposed. I appreciate that... this kind of communication and this supervisory role of law enforcement would also be a bond in communication between the leadership, i.e. the Committee of the System and this 88 Parliament to address the problems that may arise in... the course of implementation of this. Third conclusion: To be in charge of the Committee of the System that urgently, and after the final establishment of a public broadcasting system in BiH, by forming a corporation, I propose to the Parliamentary Assembly a programme of financial consolidation and resolution – I now have to say, unlike my colleagues, Mehmedović – all three broadcasters. I don't think anything would go wrong here, or someone else's funds. How would you do that? But the goal, in fact, of this: so that the newly established public broadcasting system starts to function within clear, transparent and favourable conditions, preferably from zero, so that there are no minuses, no losses, no nebuloses, no nebuloses, nothing to be faced by the system's leadership. Here's why, with what explanation. The report on the audit of BHRT, i.e. the Public Service for 2005 and 2006 which was established by the Office for the Audit of Institutions as well as the Report of Independent Auditing Houses, which were the basis for writing part of the Management Board's work report, as well as for the evaluations of the Management Board on the work and operation of the Public TV Service, pointed out the need to address problems related to financial operations, primarily revenues, distribution of tv fees, insight into the payment and distribution of funds, debt problems between broadcasters and others. and in order to ensure favourable conditions for the start of the public broadcasting system, by establishing a corporation, this is proposed. And the fourth conclusion: That the Parliamentary Assembly calls on competent entity institutions to urgently, urgently, yesterday, agree the relevant laws and regulations with the provisions of the Law on the Public TV System. Recital: The Law on the Public TV System, which entered into force on 8 November 2005, provided for the obligation to enter into force within 60 days of the date of entry into force of Article 44. I apologize for proposing conclusions in the function of implementing the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. It was meant that the law was implemented, if not implemented and only... is implemented somewhere, if, from which a good part of the problem came, plus that part of the problem from the previous system, until there was a TV system. But I'm saying this for the simple reason that, for two years, huge problems have arisen, which all these subjects have an existing new state, and they have an old... and in that sense, it's been done, I appreciate, and the failures and the wrong moves, but it seems to me that a little more focused on finding someone guilty inside, dealing with themselves, all dealing with the audit, moving responsibility from one to the other. But let's put this aside, not ask for anyone's guilt or responsibility, let's enforce the law. Why haven't they been implemented so far, I won't... Thank you. Suggestion of conclusions, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14985	Thank you. 89 There are no more hours of work! Until we finish the agenda. Please have everyone's consideration. That's the answer. Jovičić, Suljkanović, Okolić, Lozančić, Izetbegović, Hadži Jovan Mitrović, Džaferović, Halilović. In that order. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14986	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the subject itself and these two points joined together says it's a very difficult situation. That's the easiest thing to say. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Auditors for preparing a good audit report showing many things and thanking our resolution committees who have taken this seriously, have proposed some measures to management and the Management Board. But what I'm interested in, as in every institution I've ever asked for, I'm going to look and start with that: a national structure? So 7.9% of Srbin are not a national structure, because it is not the same to sit on a transmitter and sit in a studio. So I want to know who's sitting in the studio, who's the editor, who's the chairman of the board of directors, who's the deputy! I happen to know who's anywhere. So that's important, not 7.9%, and I don't want to insult anyone because they're honest, really. And look at these situations! They say don't get involved in editorial politics! I won't ever, I don't want to. Because I don't determine who's going to go to the news, who's going to sit in the studio. But, please, you can't live on this television - MPs thieves, do nothing, adopt two laws, one, none, the Council of Ministers doesn't work! I went upstairs today to check. There's only one reporter sitting in BHT and there's no cameras. Let's hear about them. What kind of television are they? That's not interfering with editorial policy. And you know for yourself – we all have experience on the agenda – two journalists, you can't get past them; for BH news, two other journalists or two journalists, you can't get past them; ten sometimes be with BH TV and Federal, of course, and RS. Here, now the TV RS, I was just watching, they're up, they have reason to be, because they'll be doing business this year positively, I've been asking around, and the national structure isn't the problem because there's always an open website for receiving all workers of non-Serb nationality, so open forever and so on, etc. Why is there a small subscription to the RS? Because BHTV is threatening to shut down RS television. People won't pay a subscription when they know how much BHTV funds are going. A hundred citizens, five thousand, I don't know how much, and he said, "We won't, we won't pay." Let's watch what's wrong here, which is why people won't pay. So the question is why Bošnjak pay 85%, so I think it's federal television, not BHTV. It doesn't matter if someone likes "60 minutes" and they're always kind of hitting on us lately, but it doesn't matter. So, I told you about us, they're gonna need everything more and they're gonna criticize us and I don't know what they're doing and they're gonna ask what size of shoes we're wearing, whose shirt is, if it's marked, it's not. But now she's gone! Where's camera one? She just recorded here the chairman of the board of directors and this director of the corporation, and I was just looking at the cameraman and he's gone, and he's gonna compose us somewhere like in a hidden camera. Well, whoever's talking about the pay phone, who! No, it doesn't matter. Please, this isn't a joke, this is the truth of what they're doing, this is where it's supposed to start. And, please, television went out on satellite and you see a circle at 12:30, and TV local, OSM, broadcasts the program 24 hours. Private television from someone's village, and this one went out on a satellite, and at 12:30, it's a circle, there's no program, there's nothing. And they're asking for an increase in the subscription! I'm watching BH TV because if I wasn't watching, I wouldn't know what 90 are doing. So, the corporation comes into consideration, but when everyone's dealing with a clearing in BHTV. The control authorities have completed one part, now they need to get the investigative authorities in there, because it's not possible that marketing is just bad for business. I guess there's something out there that my grandmother would say, and he's barking, and it's not possible that everyone just because of the marketing, that's why they gave up. But I can't tell you who it is, whether it is or not, it's none of my business, it's a matter of investigative organs to investigate it and see if it's really there all right. So when we set up that TV on her feet, and here we want to help her, then we're going to build a corporation, and now we're not going to destroy another one that works because of the failure of one television. We're not gonna let that happen. Now all about what I said before. So, we want to help this television, not in a way that overwrites what they've been doing so far, undermining zero and how economists do it; I'm not even an expert on television, but I know how to watch the program and I know what's going on there. There can't be no positive zero here! If they had come to zero, it would have been good, but it has to be clear to us to establish a corporation and help both the board of directors and management, but not to overwrite what's happened so far. I don't think we can finish this session or this part of BHTV's agenda, or it's possible. We can finish the discussion, but she has to be constantly in our focus, if we want to help her. And to balance the program, the way viewers are supposed to support it, so the ratings aren't from 3% to 5%, they're going to be even smaller, and you could give countless examples of what that is. I once said here: I'm not going to repeat again why it is and what happened for an important unfortunate event that is lasting for us, for the simple reason for the piety of a man we greatly appreciated, we'll never forget him, that there's only the third news, some of the more important content. I do not make a shirt of a diary, nor determine when the news will go and what to do, but I have the right to say and here I am not as a private person, with a name and a last name, I did not sign down that I am a member of Parliament, I will always report them to the CIA, the agency, for the various things they violate – the Code of Broadcasting and, I do not know, other things that are very important to all three constituent peoples in BiH. So, I said before, I'm proud, and I just asked the director of RTRS last night: what, God Bog, with him, that maybe he's not worse than these, so even him, don't Bog, I'm getting into some trouble. But here, thank Bog, it's good. We did business last year positively, and this one will. They would have done better. Their building is made new to them, and everything would have been better if they had not been burdened by those who had to pay more than they took. And they're falling apart. Well, you can't now because of what you're going down, and so can we, because it's our television to strip into a plane and one that doesn't go down. Now, that won't be possible. Well, when it comes to subscription, I'll cut it short. I'm not gonna compete with the teacher who left. She talked for 25 minutes, and here I am already talking six, six. I'm saying I won't get that far. So when it comes to subscription, the question is whether we can maintain a 6-mark subscription level, not ask for an increase! 'Cause, God Bog, somebody's gonna come around, here's me, let's say, I raise my hand to raise someone, I can't go back to Pale, there's no way, there's no way. There, no one's looking up but me, this TV, no one. But I look at them for these reasons, because I couldn't talk about them! If I don't watch them, I don't know what they're publishing. That's why I watch every night and sometimes I skip the RS journal, watch them, because they go on. They don't have a permanent schedule. Let me get serious. Television needs to be helped, but in a way that clears everything up there and really brings it to zero, not with the debt of someone else taking over. ..... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, noBog no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He's good there, not to give that commission anything, so we can cover it up. Who would have thought of that? So, I'm gonna finish my exposure: the state of BH TV and the radio, which is better than them, but they eliminated it too, is that where people have problems, it's catastrophic and it has to be a constant concern for this Parliament whenever we make a commitment, and I see there are ten conclusions; someone predicted 30 days, someone 60. We can do 160, but let's put them on their feet to work and be a television that's gonna be interesting to watch, for all three constitutive peoples. One example, it is indeed an insult to the Serbian people if they interpret Croatian with Cyrillic. Indeed, it's incredible, as if they were writing English with Cyrillic. Well, don't serve us with that, so he'll say, "Here's a lot of Cyrillic on TV." So write a five-day Cyrillic and 15-Latin, but at least I know it's five, but don't work. That, it's really unserious, it's underestimating people who pay, those pensioners. And countless of the things that are done on that show. And another show: there is no Srbin with any rating that will win here neither Hanka Paldum but anyone in that Pyramid because no one is answering them to vote from Srbin, it's not watching, but everything from Sarajevo and you can't win there. And who needs that show, who needs it? Will anyone remember that the Srbin don't need that! I apologize to Professor Dokić. He was really great there, but he was a disaster. It doesn't matter who you competed with there, you'd lose if I didn't know who it was! And all of them, countless of them, but we can't, people, skip it. We need to start at zero, and listen well, this isn't for parliamentarians, the chairman, but to get it in order and ask us for help, then you'll get it. Then you'll ask for help and you'll get it. In this way, there is no way we can help you, when the Serbian people do not accept it, here, I will say it openly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14987	Dear Ambassador Suljkanović, next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14988	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, surely it is very difficult to discuss after Mr. Jovičić's discussion, because she was indeed comprehensive, complete and I will try not to repeat any of his or her discussion of the predecessors. And I promise I'll stick to that line on the replica, so I won't be over three minutes. In fact, this has been the subject of the Transport and Communications Commission's agenda for several months now. We've been getting a few reports, and then we've been looking for their addition, and I think we have one or five versions of the Management Board's work reports, so it would be an updated version of one, an updated version of two and so on. However, at the last session of the Commission - the last updated report - I was one of those who voted and whose vote it decided. In fact, the Commission has worked with such a number that we have ruled on the President of the Commission and myself. Unfortunately, I can say that after that I repented that I gave my vote, although it probably would not have changed anything in the end, for a very simple reason; namely, 15.11. I received a document which was the subject of an evaluation of the plan of BHRT's activities for the implementation of the recommendations of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions and I was really disappointed when I saw that the incomplete Management Board that has been working as incomplete all along because of the 92 things that we could hear and see that Mr. Agović had been disfellowshipped from this work, so we still made him stay for a while until the end of the term, and then, then, you now have this material, saw that, in fact, this Board of Directors and, in addition to the favor of his chairman Deretić, whom I listened on several occasions to the Commission, that these intentions were not exactly Bog knows how... focused on realising the problem when in the BHRT activity plan for realisation, in fact, in fact, in fact, it is based on Mr. That's when I saw that there's still a lot of problems with the number of problems, and I can tell you that something really rarely disappointed me as much as this report, or the assessment of the plan of BHRT activity. I said I'd be very brief. I think I have proposed a full-day session on the Commission, dedicated only to this part of the agenda. It's probably gonna happen. I'm sure this is just the beginning of a debate. We've found that there are problems that are very large, there are very good suggestions here and there, how much water they're going to drink, we'll see. We're probably going to adopt a good number of these, but it would be very good to set up some kind of control mechanism that would be able to give us an assessment of how much of our conclusions are being carried out in the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14989	Thank you. I hope that all MPs have received that list of conclusions that we are working on on a regular basis and at which stage is the implementation or achievement of these conclusions. Believe me, we'll continue to work that way, so I'll... give you an additional explanation about that. Now the Honorable Messenger Okolić has come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14990	Here, I'll try to be very brief, there's no reason to be long because, in my discussion, because many debaters have said about what has to be said and what could be said and I don't believe that gentlemen, or management, the Board of Directors, etc. from the Public Service so ignorant that they don't know what to do and that there are a lot of conclusions that we have made, or suggested and similar, etc. But I would... say that the BiH Public TV service is a mirror of a state, such as the Border Police, when entering that country and seriously accessing this problem. And we can see from this discussion that we've taken this seriously. And to that end, I would suggest one conclusion that differs slightly from other conclusions, and from those that I wanted to suggest more are similar, and I gave up. And that is: The Governing Board and the management of the BiH Public TV Service is in charge of that in as short a time as possible and as long as 60 days – although it does not matter whether 60 or 90, as someone said, but around 60 – brings a new concept of marketing services and creates conditions for more efficient operation, namely the work of the Public TV Service BiH, not counting on an increase in the TV fee. 93 This is important, I've apostrophysed this, and they know what they're going to do. We don't need to tell them now do this, do what you do, change the national structure, what, ratings, etc., I guess they're so aware, etc., and that after completing the same task, they report this home, which is very important for us to be able to show ourselves afterwards whether it's okay or not, is this topic not to let go of the case? And I'd like to maybe ask the MPs' club if I don't make a new conclusion, there's no need. They're good at their conclusions, too. The first conclusion there says: BiH institutions need to take an insight into the operation of RTV BH. Little is this recklessly said control hurricanes. The control bodies are all you want, we should be able to tell which ones. If not, at least write down the competent control authorities. Since this, however, will go to the hands and someone who will say that this is not quite clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14991	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lozančić, co-chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14992	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, chairman of the board of directors, respected representatives of information funds, if there are still you here! Here, again, thinking again, I apologize... I apologize... because funny to me... I have to tell you what's funny to me. I'm sorry, I have to drink some water. [[Laughter and joint discussion]] Me, if it wasn't funny, it would be tragic or vice versa. We are today discussing here the Report of the Management Board of one of the three public services which could not be concluded through the debate we have heard so far, because we have discussed as if we were discussing the Report of the Management Board of the Public TV System. I have to say that often when I want to say one thing or the other, then I stop a little bit, so I think, yeah, there's systems, and that's three, and there's a service, so that's: each of them... three repairs have. So, don't push me corporate when we don't have it. I object to this system – service. We have like three repairs, we have, they're like one system, yeah, and they're all public. Now, you might think,...I suppose a lot of you are often puzzled by what I could conclude from the discussions of the previous ones. I didn't want to replicate, correct the wrong allegations, etc. Many in the debates even said that I would not correct them if they were wrong... Don't make me right, if I'm wrong, I have good intentions! 94 What's the function? What, for what reason is there in general, here we are... in BiH and many democratic countries, these public services? It is obvious that these public services have not fulfilled their function to this day, because we, too, are here – here, I did not bring this law to good luck, but here I am sitting in the Parliament that brought it – it also confuses us: the service – the system! You can imagine how much our public service is, it's not our service, it's a public service, and it should be in public function, how different they are: service – system – corporation!? How much information do they have on this service? We have three repairs and, interestingly, I don't see any of them here. I don't think that's why, what Mr. Jovičić said. It's possible, he's busy with an earlier programming scheme that they're committed to another task, etc. But this was an ideal opportunity for them, if they hadn't done it before, that the public had a little bit of education, that they existed, and that they also heard about the problems, that the public heard about the problems that these services and this system and corporations had not yet met. Maybe that public would at least be a little more sentimental, so a little bit more pay-TV tax, so it would probably affect the solution, I think, the only problem we're discussing here today. Because, in order for no one to misinterpret me, I followed a television show, after a similar debate in the Federal Parliament, when one of those repairers, excuse me, the service,...to one presentation by one of the representatives made a characterized contribution that was spinning, spinning, spinning, etc. Probably to show the public how many of these people's representatives are cartoons from MPs. And okay, that's their right. I want to praise their independence, I want to commend their programming orientation, I want to show my great satisfaction with the way they edit the programs, here, even though it may be against me, because I don't know if I can even praise it so that someone doesn't feel that I'm meddling or that, God Bog, I'm affecting the independence of independent public services that are only exposed and should be exposed to the court of law. I, however, have so far failed to see how this public, whose services they are, can affect these services. I may not have well-analyzed the legislation, but so far I haven't figured out how, what kind of instrument is that? Through us here, whoever chose can't, because we're not allowed to. Who else, I don't know! Probably go out for a demonstration, if they're not happy with something. Maybe it's the only way, if they're unhappy. But I suppose everyone shares my pleasure, so here's one relationship to this public TV system. I had one chance, here, and a nice chance to celebrate my daughter's 18th birthday, means adulthood, and then I like this as a happy father... organized gifts, parties, miracles, etc. And, to my great surprise, my daughter, instead of being grateful to my father for having done all this, the first sentence she said: "E, Dad, I am independent and independent of today, from today on I am of age." I was a little surprised, I didn't care... but then I said, "Okay, daughter, but totally independent." She says, "What does that mean, Dad?" 'So completely independent of me, no more money, no more of this, no more of that, you're independent and you're welcome.' E says, "He can't." I made a joke then, so I said, "You're just like our TV." And she laughed. Because... well, that's what made me think earlier, when I started laughing, so I apologize once again for laughing, because I think it's too serious... but here's too serious about this second. How do you even find a solution to a situation like this? Here, we saw here there are countless, I must say, countless conclusions. They're all acceptable to me. So there will probably be more conclusions by the end of this debate. We have here in this one report by the board of directors, 95 means board of directors,...so many facts that I first asked myself a question: could such an approach by the board of directors have been to inform us of what the problem is parent? If I were them, I'd first point out what's good. But I didn't read anything that they pointed out was good. Now, I'm supposed to be a bigger Catholic than the Pope, or a better acquaintance of opportunities than the board of directors, so I should praise something, and the Management Board... from page to page, so on each page you have this bolded up, I guess we have the same reports: there's no this, no good this, notice this, found this, doesn't go this way. I don't know what's going on. So this is not a criticism to the board of directors, because I think the people who took that job, here we are today, hopefully, completeing that composition, are in a very invisible situation. I'll make only one remark on one of the proposed conclusions. I think our committee's proposal is about the other point, but here we have united it, which requires that as the 'control authorities' are said, someone here said 'examination', but it says 'control authorities',...the audit controlled it, so she said what she found - 'come in there and see and explore the financial business of TV'. I immediately put a reserve against that conclusion, and if it is necessary to declare ourselves in the package, I will be against that conclusion. Because I'm sure then they'll accuse us of putting pressure on the independence of television. What do you think we send the police now, these are your organs, I don't know which other control bodies exist. The financial police, the SIPA, this one, she, I mean it's you, I guess, the control authorities, if it's not someone else! And now, we say let's go, we send the police on TV to investigate, what's it called, it's a fine, and it's a fierce radical repressive apparatus on independent television. Now, did we get it right in the law and that's the question, but we have to keep an eye on it. So, if we are for independence, let's not disrupt that independence with any kind of repression and we from Parliament, and we don't send any police there to... create order... in the public tv system or public tv service. So I think the simplest option is that the Management Board, the simplest one, to us, I don't think that we can put 30 days in charge of you, 15 days, of 60 days... that all of what they informed us that it was wrong – put it in order. That's why they exist. We can't get involved there. And let us know when it's in order. I agree with those who... spoke and I understand that one of the conditions for the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the reform of the Public TV System is, therefore, the completion of this reform. According to this report, this reform has been launched recently, at a time when a respected representative was a minister,... and has been a representative for a year. But according to this report, I'm not sure which way this reform is going! So, I'm not sure... she gave the desired results! The public doesn't know anything about this Public Service, I don't know how pleased it is because, perhaps, it shows satisfaction by paying the subscription, perhaps, or by apologizing, it's not a subscription. Maybe it's not good here, we don't have any information about the financial situation of one, the other, the third service today. Is there any loss today? We've got some information somewhere or I might not be good at it,... I'm a little confused by those numbers, so... one, one service owes another... are within the same system. Now, I have to say, I'm a little confused about that: the thorn of one another. Then they have these independent agencies that have been introduced to record marketing services. Well, I don't understand with so many losses... how they remembered to give so many discounts, I haven't heard of 70 percent discounts yet, 80%, I really haven't heard... I don't know. Maybe there's a... sale like that but... that they have such discounts, I haven't heard. 96 And I suggest to the Management Board and Management, as we discuss here the Report of the Management Board of the Public TV System – the Service of BiH – means one service – to do a little tour of these commercial televisions, to get into communication, I hope. Otherwise, they cooperate correctly with them and to see that these commercial televisions with ten times less employees who all went from the back, literally from the back, so they had nothing, that had no stamps of this charge and whatever it is. How do they survive at all? Maybe they give them advice, maybe give them suggestions, maybe give them guidance if they haven't found them by themselves – how to find a solution, to preserve public tv service, system and all its services? I think we're going to have a lot less need to discuss a problem here in this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14994	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović, next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14995	I think it's all said and I'm not gonna do it again, I'm just gonna point out some things. So, 1,000 employees, right, that's an army of people? ... I think each of these small private services would die if they gave him those 1,000 workers soon. It's just impossible, I mean, to organize, there's probably two-thirds of the extra employees, maybe even three-quarters that there's extra employees, and it's bad personnel and professional structures. Excess employees, and the lack of funds, poor charge, technological lagging, is whether, because every month it is necessary to allocate 700 salaries that are extra. That's why it's an unattractive program, so marketing can't be charged well, is it? Then I have political callings, attacks that further affect the poorer viewing of television, whether, as far as the quality and attractiveness for the collection of marketing and the final restriction... that the director is autonomous up to 10,000 marks, must be consulted by the Management Board. That's ten times less than his colleagues on Serbian, RTRS, and FTV. Well, in those conditions, I don't know who would... manage and wouldn't get into a situation to replace it. I don't think it's a way out... in changing people, you need to help them be successful. Because it hints... a new shift, is it, after a new shift. So, I don't think that the exit is on shift, the exit is obvious in the corporation, although counterpart Dokić,... former minister, doesn't think so, but from the quality discussion of Professor Hadžiahmetović it is seen that most of the problems would be solved... through the formation of a corporation. This is our legal obligation, compared to the laws that are already two years old and, more importantly, it is an obligation under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. So, we can take one shot... solve two flies if we want. If we don't, then we can take another two years... to work hard. There are laws other than this federal one, but we have, before it's more important, we have boards in office. The summation of these boards of directors is the concise board of corporations, the system. Yes, it is. So we can solve a more efficient charge through a unique collection system. I think we can solve the extra employees the way we handled the extra soldiers. We didn't need that many armies, so we gave them some stimuli, so we gave them some severance supplies, and in this case, 97 probably, we can make one fund so we can solve this thing, not every month 700 salaries and so 12 months a year. And the national balance? If in this television set in Sarajevo, which belongs normally to the whole of BiH, in BHRT 67% of Bošnjak, it is unacceptable but... I think that, if we look at how things are in RTRS, we will find at least 77% of Srbin there, and these are three segments... of one system and they are all obliged to be multiethnic and they all belong to all the peoples and citizens in BiH. Republika Srpska, because in its name alone... Serbian, it... according to the Constitution belongs to all the nations and its television belongs to all the peoples and I think it can be ensured through one stimulating fund that some of the people from that television go to BHRT and vice versa and then you will get a more balanced... editorial policy on both systems. So, you can, you can do, people, if you want. I support... the conclusions offered by Mr Mehmedović and Professor Hadžiahmetović and I think it is most important of these conclusions as quickly as possible towards the corporation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14996	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Replica? Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14997	It's a short replica. Here, honourable MP Izetbegović made one parallel between the entity service and the state service. I would like to remind you that the state service has an obligation to cover the whole of BiH with a signal, and the entity services, which is absurd, are forbidden by law to broadcast a signal in the area of another entity. Mr. Lozančić mentioned me as a minister Malopre. I'd be a long list of things that are in this law, and against which I was, here, I'm drago to witness, but they entered this law and we have to respect them. One of these things is nonsense that entity television can't broadcast in the area of another entity, and we have a situation that neighbouring countries are broadcasting signals in the BiH area and that's one of the problems we have marketing about. So these two can't be compared. Since the state service covers the entire area, it must have a truly fully balanced personnel structure. And I have to look back... now on the part of my colleague Azra's discussion, who in one way I find incorrect said that some of the wrong discussions, it seems to me that she called me, directing the discussion to the wrong thing. Then I apologize, if that's the case, but I have to say this: that her conclusions that she suggested on the basis of, how can I say, are based on what doesn't exist. We have also discussed in the Commission the issue of corporations and opportunities to establish it and the opinion of the resolution ministry has been requested, and they are obliged and competent to interpret the law. That is how it stands, where it explicitly writes – The opinion was signed at the beginning of the tenth month of this year – that until it is established, members of the Management Board of the Federal Public Television Service, there are no conditions for setting up, for the establishment of the System Committee. 98 I would like to remind you that this interpretation, which we have heard and which is often withdrawn for the old committees to function, absolutely does not apply to the Committee of the System. In Article 7. The Law on the Public TV System explicitly states that this law establishes a System Committee. So, this system committee didn't exist, it's being established by this law. In article 42, it's up to the establishment, so you don't misread it, I want to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14998	Replication time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u14999	Here is just that: Until the establishment of the Committee of Systems and individual boards of public broadcasters, the existing Management Boards shall perform their functions, it shall refer to the existing Management Boards of Services. So what was there, and the system board doesn't exist, is defined by this law, and it's defined exactly who are members of that committee. The old members of this committee are not even elected by concept as chosen by the new system. To be clear, and here I was against the proposals imposed, it is known from where, both with regard to the number of board members and with regard to the structure, but so it entered into this law and must be respected.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15000	Of course, we now have an answer to an incorrect assumption. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15001	First, I accept the apology of my colleague Dokić and one. Secondly, I agree that the law should be respected but I cannot be surprised at all this. kolega Dokić, you were the minister, this law passed in November 2005, help us! Why didn't you implement it or not, and you were, by nature things, supposed to be involved in some way, but someone was supposed to do it operationally. But what was the problem with not implementing this law that established the obligations of 30 days, 60 days, etc.? Here, for a year you've been an MP, you've been reading the provisions of this law in which you say there is no committee of the system, and at the meeting of the committee of directors you had before you, I assume, a report by the Management Board that contains part of the Participation Committee of the Public Service in the Committee of the System that meets once a month. There's a tax code on what they do, etc. They make decisions. It says here: The System Committee is being established. That is true, however: that the Committee of the System is made up of three broadcasters. The Management Boards of the three broadcasters shall also form the Board of the System chaired by the Chair of the Management Board of the Public TV Service. Mr. Deretić, correct me if you don't. Read this law! I have, I mean, I had to debate like this for the simple reason that I read this law very carefully, understanding the importance of matter and understanding the huge problem we have. You referred to my conclusion, mine. I apologized to all of you for suggesting that we implement this law as a conclusion. That after two years we honor the obligations defined by this law: 30 and 60 days. There was probably some reason not to implement this 99 law. Is there a problem with this law or is it something else? But here I am, and after two years, I'm trying to ask what the problem is, so let's approach that solution. I needed to correct the wrong quote and replicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15002	Wait a minute, please. ... The college will soon come out with a proposal on how to deal with these situations. I think everybody's gonna love it, but as long as we're doing this, I think we're gonna move on tonight until we finish this agenda. Now the honourable MP Dokić has asked for an answer to the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15003	It's just that we're not going to, exactly, interpret what it says in this law. So, this law has not been implemented for clearly known reasons, it has not been implemented, to use our word, has not been implemented because there is still no law on the Public TV Service of the Federation of BiH. That's the point. So there were stories about this and the relationship with OHR and their interpretation. So that's the real reason. If we don't want to see it, then that's the problem. An institution that is competent to interpret the provisions of the law? I said, if you didn't get a chance to read, here, I'll let you copy it and read it. So, I didn't sign it, but the current minister of communication and transport, and it's a very fresh opinion from two months ago, and let's not now, I want to call here to correctness, and let's not bring our interpretations here a false assumption and prejudice indirectly to who's to blame for why this law hasn't been implemented. So here's the competent institution for interpreting the law explicitly wrote its opinion. Here, you don't have to trust my individual, here we have a competent institution and I won't answer for any more replicas or for discussion on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15004	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. You had a replica? Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15005	You know what the replica is? To the national structure. And you know why? Today you come home and turn on the TV: you want to watch Croatian, I watch Croatian, I watch Serbia, RTS, BHT, you can even get Čačak on cable TV now. And now what about me? I, when I want to listen to songs, turn the Čačak. I've never looked at the national structures of the director, but I won't turn it if there's no good songs, I won't turn it around. Here, let's agree on the national structure, the ratings of state television will be three percent again? Then what do we find for a reason? Therefore, the essence of this discussion of the problem that is written in the report, the problem discussed by the two homes and the essential thing that we have not finished, I would say, the project of transforming public TV services 100 and here we need to make an effort to complete this and give the task of making those objections that have been made, but they are also in the national structure and should not be repeated, must be corrected by the time we look at the next report, but also by corporations and public broadcasters. And that's the end of the story. If we don't, we're going to have the same story next year, same conclusion, and we're not going to look because it's not a national structure, and it's not a national one, it's a quality. And the quality of these TVs, if they do not invest in technology innovation, technology tracking – it will collapse! And that's a fact and another fact: 1,000 employees didn't do this structure or this board of directors and they were transferred, these 1,000 people, and they are, and they have to be resolved. That's a suggestion: make it, gentlemen, what is it, if we need to find the funds like we demobilized the soldiers, etc. and those people to demobilize, but we can't leave them. So don't just go to this part, let's look at it in total, and I think we'll come up with a solution then. Next year, we'll discuss these things if we don't introduce what this law has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15006	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović, just a minute, slowly. [[Common discussion]] Do you have any objections to the Rules of Procedure? Or the way you work? Please, go ahead and tell your colleagues. Please, honourable Member Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15008	Here, I had a need to correct the wrong quote of counterpart Dokić, who mentioned that this law had not been implemented for the reason that no law on public FTV, federal television, and the choice of board of directors, etc. I will remind you: this law here says that within 30 days, a fourth entity is established, which is a corporation, and within 60 days to adopt, or adapt, the provisions of the entity laws to the state. Therefore, there is no assumption of the application of this law or the justification for avoiding this law was the eventual adoption of a law or the establishment of something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15009	I thank you, and I'd like everyone to give up on the replicas and the false allegations. We have the following: Hadji Jovan Mitrović, Džaferović, Halilović, Kadrić. Here you go, in that order. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15010	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I personally did not expect the debate on this point to be, that it would take this long. But... I am increasingly convinced that this hall here is turning into a single stage with more and more actors, the people who are the opposition in the morning, in the afternoon position. And here a man can't come up with a word of honesty, one that has some continuity in it and stick to his attitude. There's no point in this session that the opposition hasn't used at the same time and is talking as an opposition. I really don't get it. But here's what I'm gonna say about this. When it comes to the audit report, I believe in these findings of the audit report, but I don't think the control authorities will do their part of the work that should be done, just for the sake of the sum of the million. I'm not saying this by accident. I'm saying this for a reason that we've had audits in entities, so here I am, and here I'm meeting, where we're talking about millions of figures and it ends up like nothing happened. And nothing's going to happen here. It's going to happen where the numbers are about 1,000 KM, two and three, as we watched on TV in Zvornik that a man was taken into custody for 15 days for three beets, and he has seven children. Is it any shame of politicians and us here, if he saw it and saw it, that they should take him away from seven children for three beech to warm them up, and we have people who cut up the whole forest. The international community has launched a procedure and will not be able to safely perform control bodies. What are we in control of? Who are we representing? Who are we kidding? We deceive the people, the public. Now, right now, at this point, we're misleading the public that someone else's guilty is out there, how the board is supposed to do the management. And who appoints this board of directors? Now I hear, he says, he's independent. How independent, gentlemen? Well, we just had a man's board appointment here, so he's not very independent! Don't convince me, or someone said, "I'm glad he says the law of competition is in place." The government on paper, and when they apply, they redefine the priority of one, the other, and these political parties, and they. He's addicted. Therefore, I mean for this condition is always and will be responsible for most, whatever her name is and whoever did it. If, gentlemen, you have appointed a board of directors: one Srbin, one Hrvat, one Bošnjak, if you think that they from this situation will, as mentioned here, in this report of the Management Board, they are, except that they are, which one goes from the SDA, the other from the SNSD, the third from the HDZ, I don't know, I don't think they will. You're wrong. You're wrong. We can just keep going and next year we can talk about this situation again as it is, change them again, and we won't get what we want to have public service that deserves, see, they say, BiH is our country and both the other and the third. If so, then this country deserves a public service to be at least equal to the services in entities. And if we want to, then this burden must be borne by this parliament and this majority. They won't be able to get this much, I don't know, out of marketing, out of other things. Those extra labor forces won't be able to eliminate unless the assembly is involved here. In that light, I thought most of them would talk like that. But... most of them talk to each other in their own way. Every entity, both entities, I mean, and the entity politicians have their own television, and don't let anyone talk about how this one after the job will go down until the moment he gives him the money, and as you get up with those politicians, you say, "You see him, and you say good morning, when you lie down, he says good night." But it can't be 102 anything else. There's no other thing to hear. I just don't know what's going to happen on federal television since there's still something else, some stories that, in my opinion, make sense that the public knows there's both the other side and the other truth. Gentlemen, for this situation in all this and the public as being deceived, here's what I'm going to say is my fault, even though I think the greatest responsibility lies with most of it. Now you're talking about a corporation? I knew that a long time ago, this is not the only segment in which a BiH-level Public Service Corporation should be brought to life. There's more. But the public doesn't know, and the people don't know. Why isn't television, no difference in the condition it is, not here and not recording and hearing the other side? He's gonna get out of here, he's fighting for no corporation, and the law's been passed on that. I know it's signed. What's behind that? It's time-consuming. You take money and you charge, just, thing, by thing. The people are simply mistaken. I'm not going to suggest any conclusion. Gentlemen, it is up to you to suggest you from the majority, I will be determined according to your conclusions which are – which I will support which I will not – and do not seek responsibility on either the Management Board or on the management of this situation, but on the policy of the majority that was how it ruled and was in that position. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15011	Thank you. The esteemed emissary Lozančić has the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15012	Thank you. I'll tell the president first. I don't have the wrong quote, I want to correct the wrong quote, so I'll be precise. Dear colleague, you said earlier on the board of directors all have members, so one of them is from this, one of them is from the HDZ. For your information, none of them are HDZ, but I still support this board of directors, no matter what none of them are HDZ. Another false allegation, you said, all politicians from both entities have their own television. I've seen it as my own, what in the sense of... your own to paint it whenever you need it and wherever you need it, etc. If I've had a good experience, that's where I'm correcting you. I, unfortunately, don't have my own TV, and some people who have it aren't here today or here anymore, so there's probably no cameras.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15013	Here, I'm joining this discussion, just, instead of HDZ, put on a SNSD, I won't answer for the replica. The next came Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15014	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think that here we should sort things out the way they are, by the two laws adopted by the state parliament in 2005, see what state we now have what we call a system, and sometimes by service, because there is Mr. Lozančić right. And let's see what we do next. When the reform of the Public TV System in BiH began, laws were assumed and thus written. When you look at the laws that all within a certain time period prescribed by the law will meet their obligations and that in time they will be able to start all that is provided for in the set of laws as an institutional framework for the functioning of the Public TV System of BiH. When I say this, then I think, first of all, of the next. Today, many speakers have called for Article 42. The Law on the RTV System, where the Constitutional Session of the System Committee will be convened within 15 days of the date of appointment of a sufficient number of members of the Management Board of Public TV Services, and three are services, one state and two entities, in order to form a quorum of the System Committee. Until the establishment of the System Committee and individual boards of public broadcasters, the existing Management Boards will carry out their duties. It's your function. This is, therefore, a literal provision in Article 42. The law. And in the provision of Article 44, the relevant laws and regulations at the state and entity level relating to the Public TV system of BiH and public services must comply with the provisions of this law within 60 days of its entry into force. The State Service Act was passed in December 2005. RS has passed its entity service law, the Federation of BiH has not passed the law today, and I see all the problems here in the absence and non-functioning of the corporation, and there is no corporation because some interprets that it is not possible to establish a corporation, i.e. the board of directors of the system before all regulations are complied with, and also the federal regulation regarding the FRTV service. We received one letter from the Board of Directors of BHRT on the Constitutional Legal Commission and said that these are practical issues of law enforcement. The ministry came out with one interpretation and I'm speaking for myself now. The Commission did not take a position. I think that in the current situation we must react in a way and here I find the most responsible for this state of the Resort Ministry and Parliament of BiH because we did not respond in time and we have allowed ourselves to have such a huge time difference in the adoption of acts, and on the other hand we have started to process the establishment of the Public TV Service by naming the Governing Board and I think it is a resolute ministry, first of all, and then both of the houses of the BiH Parliament that they had to react to this fact that no public service law has been passed in the Federation of BiH. I believe that it is possible to get out of this situation by asking the rest of the ministry to properly interpret the meaning of this provision. If this is not the ministry because it deals with interpreting practical aspects of the application of the law, then by Parliament of BiH to pass the law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Public TV System by saying that where laws have not been passed, which is the Federation of BiH, the existing Management Board, until the law is passed and a new committee can't be chosen – because the system cannot suffer – because 104 of this will be operational and this is possible, the function of the members of the System Management Board, and to enable the establishment and establishment of a corporation because this is not going on. This interpretation is also possible from these provisions of the law, and I don't think we assumed when we passed this law, and I'm one of those, I'm a legislator when it comes to this matter, with 142 when it comes to this home. And when my voice is, I can say freely, that I didn't vote for having such a big time difference and going into the establishment of something, and that the assumptions aren't all over, that is, I thought there were assumptions that it would immediately start forming, and when the laws would be passed and how it would later... take place, it's a matter of those laws. Why am I saying this? Well, I'm saying this for one simple reason. When I look at this report and it's good that this report here today is a lot of disturbing news coming from the Public TV Service of BiH. I, for example, was upset by the news when, after the RS Prime Minister's reaction, we had a reaction from the National Television Management Board when there was a detachment from the duties of the editor-in-chief. After that, the Director-General shall be appointed before the end of the term of office. I've been reading these days, so I've got a letter in which an existing director complains that he's being threatened with a shift or is being asked for his shift. Let's see what's going on. I'm glad we have this here today as a debate, as a subject of debate, and I'm not going to enter into any other question, and that is about democracy. So this issue concerns democracy and concepts establishing the functioning of the Public TV system of BiH. I think, as well as Mr Mehmedović, that Parliament should not be given reports and Parlement should not adopt reports, because we have imagined the concept of the Public TV Service and System as an institution responsible for BiH citizens. We are being provided with information and we meet the obligations we have towards this institution, because we want to have an objective, impartial and independent public TV system in BiH, with all its services and with the corporation. But on that question, I say, I won't speak now, I won't further elaborate this thesis. It can be long and wide... elaborated. I'm just going to show you what we actually have today. In this report that we received from the Management Board, the state TV service, so state TV, when you read that report, you will see that it is a partial service report and a partial system report. And they're in that position because there's still no public TV system in BiH. When you look at the Law on the Public TV System, then you will see that it is not possible for the service to function, neither state nor entity, and that, before and at the same time, a corporation is not established. Why am I saying this? Because the BiH Public TV system includes three broadcasters, state, two entity and a corporation. He's got a board of directors who's a board of directors, and that board of directors has jurisdiction, and I think that's what the catch is, and that's what's all the problem. The system's board of directors has authority over all BiH broadcasters, all repairers, and has management powers over the corporation. So it's said in Article 6. Public TV system law that public broadcasters are required to register a corporation at a state-level level, and the corporation, in the name of all three public broadcasters, performs certain jobs, so that, says sales of television, radio and multimedia ads, develops and coordinates legal regulations, promotes, provides administrative and other assistance, sells television and multimedia marketing services, coordinates with resources, assets, etc. And the board of directors of the system, it says, sets out 105 harmonised RTD tax proposals, monitors the collection of RTD fees, and the tv tax is charged to a single account that must be set up at a corporation in a public broadcasting system in BiH. The report here says that the tax is allocated per article 29. The law. I consulted. This account is located not with the corporation today but with the state broadcaster. This bill could be with the corporation. It can't be with a state broadcaster, because it's the opposite of the law, and when you look at the essence of the provisions of the law that I've only partly called upon, there's still a situation, more provisions, then you see that it's simply not possible for all of this to work without a corporation, and that's why it's the key thing to establish a corporation, and the assumption of establishing a corporation is actually the establishment of a governance board of the RTV system that also plays a steering role over the corporation itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15015	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15016	What's there? What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15017	Please, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15018	What's the Board of Systems? Please, just let me finish. So, we have today appointed, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, the Committee of State Service under the new law, we have appointed a Committee of RTRS, an entity and we have not passed a law when it comes to the Federation. But I say, I say that this provision here can be interpreted by the fact that the existing Board of Directors of the RTV Federation will represent a member of the Management Board of the System. But this board of directors of the system, we can talk about whether it exists theoretically or legally! I'm talking about that he doesn't exist in life, he doesn't work, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, and I'm asking him to function because if he were working then today, we probably wouldn't have this kind of problem but we'd discuss it in another way. Why am I saying this? Because I don't think it's possible in BiH, if we've defined ourselves, and we've defined ourselves, that we're going this way. I thought it would be better to go the other way but this is a legal solution: a partial consideration of the issue of reform of the Public TV System and just focus on the state media. It is not by chance that this parliament has decided to pass laws saying that it will, among other things, have certain powers not only over the state broadcaster but also over the system, and the system has authority over all BiH broadcasters. We have forgotten today or are not in a situation – because it is said that there is no system and that there is no board of directors, that it is not formed – that we are discussing the overall problem of the Public TV System in BiH. So, I agree, right now, you should know that when we talk about the ethnic structure, and it is mentioned here in the Report, that the ethnic structure of BiH employees in the public TV system sector should meet the 1991 census, but it is not fair to talk in this respect only about a state-run repairer who had such a developmental path as he had, rather than talking about everything. And those who call and say that there is insufficient representation of some, and too much representation of others, should say what is, it would be fair to say, what is with other broadcasters, what is 106 representations of Bošnjak and Hrvat on RTRS, to speak completely and to speak openly. Then we'll have a full story and then we'll have that reform we need here in BiH. I am afraid, perhaps I will not use the heavy words, I said that for me, this is the most responsible resolution ministry since the day of the law's entry into force until today, and so have we in Parliament who have embarked on the formation of the Management Board without seeing this thing. I'm afraid this isn't about some calculations. And I'm asking you to stop all possible calculations. Let's go as Parliament now, if there is a need to give an interpretation, if the law is to be passed and told in this law - immediately form a board of directors of the system and a corporation until the election, it is the first member; the second member: until the alignment of the Federation of BiH law on public broadcasters with the state law on the system, the existing Board of Directors of the Federal Broadcaster will be a member of the System Committee and enter into office immediately, to form a corporation and then start talking about this issue. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15019	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić: business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15020	Chairman, I think we're a little off the agenda in one section, and that's why I'm looking for a business intervention. We are talking today about the points of the report on the work and business of the Public TV Service of BiH, with the report on the work of the Management Board, and we have brought together the report on BHRT's audit carried out for 2005 and 2006. However, in our discussions now, we have moved away from the report and we have started to talk about some laws that have been before about reforming what we are talking about today, which must be another topic and another point of the agenda, which I do not dispute that we need to talk about but we can't go through these points and that's why we have stayed this far and I suggest that we catch these points of the agenda and where we have two, by me, two possibilities, and that's to start an initiative to change people because there's nothing wrong, in our story, not people, but responsible structures, or that we simply, as we've already given through these conclusions and there's a dozen already well written here, we give them the task to try to figure out that these are the most responsible people there, so after some time there, we'll see whether it's been settled or not settled. If it's not settled, we'll see what we can do. Here, in that direction, I'm asking you to focus. So it's not you, it's all us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15021	I thank you and this feels like an appeal to everyone. However, honourable MP Okolić, honourable MP Džaferović waited for everyone to report for the discussion. And I think it's okay for him to say what he thinks in his discussion, to say it, and he hasn't answered the line once. I respect that and of course I won't warn him when he says what he wants to say in his discussion. But I'm asking everyone else to behave with your replicas within the agenda. 107 On the other hand, I'm saying by law, Article 29. The Management Board is responsible for representing Parliament and the public yearly financial plans and programme plans and reports on the implementation of these plans, and I believe that today we have not made a mistake by putting this report, not information. For that reason, we will vote, because this parliament was voted on by the reports, and the information was received to the knowledge. Now it's reported for replica two. So, dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: it is not a replica, but a correction of the wrong quote; and the honourable Ambassador Raguž. Here you go, in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15022	We've received three reports from the board of directors. If you need dates, but here's the deal. The updated report of 1.11.2007 on page 10 under c) contains the activities of the Committee of the System. Tax review, by the way, let me remind you again: The Committee of the System is chaired by the chairman of the Management Board of the Public TV Service. And here it stands, taxingly listed, sessions: November 7th, December 23rd, March 6th and so on. So, the Board of Systems exists and works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15023	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go. Well, maybe you'll have it after this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15024	Well, I wouldn't call it a replica, I'd call it a correction of an incorrect quote, and you're now quoting what I once said, Mr. President, when I answered, Article 29. - and I was hoping that Mr. Džaferović would accept, therefore, that it is legitimate and legal for us to discuss this report today, that it is our responsibility. Look, I want to remind you. We can't, those of you who have advocated a whole approach here, have actually just singled out one part of this problem and it's a corporation. The board of directors is in charge, so look at his jurisdiction! It is responsible for implementing programmes and policies and financial and each other. Well, gentlemen, we have shown in several elements the deviations of both the programme and the Constitution and the law. Well, is there a mechanism in the world democratic and social? Let's abstract, it's always parliament as a control mechanism. There's no one else. And it cannot be an independent public service in terms of irresponsibility in this part that it does not respect, that the basic provisions of the law adopted by this Parliament were not respected. Well, I didn't mean it on purpose, so they wouldn't tell me I was focusing on the national structure. And I'm not gonna do it again, but that's: if that's not the standard of one that has to be respected, then I don't know what it is without talking about software representation and some other stuff. Well, we can't just focus on whether someone... is gonna pay for it and service it and it's not. ... I contacted Mr. Bešlagić a long time ago who responded temperamentally, and I completely understand him, but the public service is not compatible with Čačk and some TV station there that is private or I don't know what kind. This is a public service, and you know... this public service. 108 And please, let us not allow this Parliament to break policies through the Public Service, it is our responsibility, and therefore I am now, any policy of party, national, or consequent or other! It's obviously too much. So some people want to preserve the state it is, not adapt it to the content of the law and the process of reform, some want to change, some want to block it, now it's our responsibility. We must play an active role in this. I do not accept that we have a passive role to play, to say this is their responsibility, it is... in 30 days, to see what the measures that the Management Board has given him are to propose to Parliament what is its obligation. Let's have something concrete, not that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15025	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15026	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so I have no intention of answering, because really, I said that I only mentioned on the way, so one thing about democracy and relations with the media. It would take us long and long, and, Mr. Raguž, I really have no intention... of leading the controversy. Maybe we'll talk about it another time. I said it was good for us to have this. The law does not say that Parliament adopts reports, the law said that the Management Board submits a report and presents to Parliament the state of it, and I think about it. But here, we're not going into that kind of controversy. And when I was talking about this board of directors of the system, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović: the point is, therefore, that we do not have corporations. The corporation does not exist, the corporation does not function, and the reason for this is that there is no, which there is no board of directors of the system, and the board of directors of the system does not exist because no members of the Federation are appointed. I spoke in that concept. You read this report? If there is, then it's even simpler. Have them establish a corporation as soon as possible. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15027	The next for discussion is Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15028	I really think that this is too serious a topic... and what I wanted to suggest is that maybe further work on this topic is interrupted and that it continues when people are less nervous, when they are less stressed, when they are less under pressure of time, because it is said that we will end up at 18:00, and here is now close to 20.00, so I will give up my discussion and I will just remind you, since we have the President of the Management Board here, there was also a TV director sitting somewhere, so we have both management and the Management Board and you as chairman of the Parliamentary Assembly – that this Parliament has reached the conclusion that these meetings have been broadcast by the public TV. When talking to people on TV, they say it's not them, that there's some deal inside, here, the Parliamentary Assembly, that they're just passing on joint sessions. I assure you that with these transmissions of these sessions, more than 50% of these problems would be solved here today and talked about because I think the situation would be much clearer. Don't just... talk like 109 I'm talking to MPs from the ruling coalition – don't discuss it as if you're an opposition, as if TV is somewhere far away from you, and as if you don't have any influence on it. That's not true. In the last two years, I've only been on this TV once, an election campaign, and I've spoken for six minutes. And in the last two years, we're going to list at least 30 of the world's televisions that have been talking to me since my release in The Hague. And don't just tell me it's not, it's a regime television. You have very capable, this time you have, you guessed, very capable and directors and boards. Give it to them, they'll take care of it! So you can see how the national structure and software scheme will be solved! They're wolves who know their jobs well. However, there is always someone behind them who is holding them back. And we have the situation we have, and she will, of course, get away with it indefinitely. And secondly, my suggestion. This is in management here, and it would be the board of directors, it would be. Wherever it goes out, the Bosanac and the Hercegovac question why BHT isn't on the satellite! Every village from Serbia, from Croatia, locally, I apologize that you do not get me wrong, from Hayat TV... via OBN to 15 or 20 TVs from Serbia and 20 TV from locals from Croatia – are on satellite, are we not able? I can't answer anyone in Denmark or Sweden or Turkey, why there's no BHT on the satellite. And I think it's one of the significant assets of income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15029	I thank you. Obviously this was a discussion, but I want to say in front of the Kolegijum that there is no agreement with anyone from BHT that only joint sessions are being transferred, and you can hear that when responsible people come out for a pay phone and that answers and MPs are being asked about the transfer of sessions. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Kadrić, and then Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15030	I'm thanking you. I'm really going to say some of my own, some of my own thoughts about this. I've read all these conclusions, I've tried to read them carefully, and they're for me, basically most of them, almost all acceptable. All I have left is the dilemma of this conclusion, which was proposed by the chairman of the Transport and Communications Commission, which introduces a new term, a term of human reform. What does this term for human reform mean? Is that part of this... an additional list of these reforms that are coming to us, is that the 19th kind of reform? Because he says in point 2, in the proposal for a conclusion: the BHTR Management Board and the BHTR Management Board are tasked with building a programme of staff reform. What does this mean? Is this about these thousands of people, that these people there need human beings, that they need reforming them? And what does it mean to reform people who are employed...? Since he has experience on this issue, I would like for the people who are employed there to explain what it means to reform people who are employed in television. 110 and maybe another quote. I don't know if it's... I'd like the same gentleman, not to ask for an explanation, but I think it's about having a tight service schedule set against the service term. Serving, I think it's a narrow term compared to the service he mentioned, the service Mr. Džaferović mentioned. I think it's a far narrower term than the term service.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15031	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15032	I'll only limit myself to a few questions. And in the end, I'm only going to say one conclusion that has actually been made. Two years and a month ago, so in 15.11.2005, I asked a representative question about the number of employees in all three public broadcasters, their national structure and the national structure of journalistic and editorial staff, as well as the management staff. I got the answer. The data was about as much as they mentioned here today, so I'm not going to repeat it. So totally unacceptable in terms of a very pronounced imbalance in the national composition, the national structure of employees, especially in the management functions and the journalistic and editorial staff. It was a condition two years and a month ago. And then, after meeting, the truth then was... on the House of Peoples, my colleagues and the public with such a condition and, of course, the unsustainability of such a condition, I said then that for, I don't know, a year would ask the same question, so I didn't. But here, in about two years and a month, we see that nothing has been done about it. So here's the worst fact that nothing happened. From that I conclude that he doesn't want to change that state, and that's the worst. Secondly, this law says that it is allowed to spend a maximum of six minutes an hour on marketing. Look, this provision has a limited function. So no more, no less, no more. And that is what is important and what significantly distinguishes public television, public services from commercial services that have no restrictions on this matter. And to be the thing worse that actually says the most about the ability of our tv service – that the time has not been used. Well, that's amazing! So what this law has allowed as possible has not been used. And you know why? Because unfortunately, the overall ability of the RTV service at such a low level is that I can't actually sell that service at all. That's where we came in, and that's a real picture of the state of our public tv service. Furthermore, two years ago there was better coverage and better coverage of bh. by signaling public tv services and better quality of this signal than it is today. So again one negative trend, a downward trend. So, the deterioration of the condition. 111 What would be necessary and most important: it is that the Management Board and Management come before this Parliament with a very clear programme of work and a proposal for a solution to get out of this situation, in which, of course, one part, I don't know either, human resources, techniques, technology, neither do I, coverage of the terrain by signal, etc. So, all of this together: financial situation, income, expenditure, where it's going to get away with income, how and how to solve dues, etc. And it's going to be a document I'm expecting, and we need to talk about it then. So, first, set goals in a document, and then, next year after the end of time, measure how many of these goals have been realized. We're talking here today about a report and a two-year-old that's very bad and I wouldn't do it again, but that's the past. That's the past. What we're going to do in the future, we need to talk about it. Nobody says anything about it, because we have no goal at all, we have no clear goals or programs of what we're going to do, but today we've spent a little and too much time here, or it's been spent, I don't know, interpreting the law. Look, I think maybe we're wasting a little too much time on things that are written, that are clear and that should be spent. True, what has been done should be done, etc. And yet, in the end, I'll only end up with one question. There has been no BHT1 signal at all for several months at the space of one part of BiH -- the southern part, most of Western Herzegovina, Western Bosnia. In the second part, the wider area, it's very poor quality. As the billing of tv is specific, it's specific again, and it works, it's done, as far as I know FTV, and since the chargeability is again what we've heard here, these days it's gone into one offensive, the real action, the charges of RTD lagging out, through the court. And in the West-Herzegovina County, where my election base, of about 25 thousand taxpayers, came from somewhere around 24, the RTT tax, more than 15 thousand forced payments. I don't know if anyone thinks it's just a question I don't know. It's also a political question to me. Is this a war, I don't know, and a public broadcaster against citizens? Against the people? I'll never say, I won't say that everything that's prescribed by law has anyone to avoid that obligation. However, I ask the question: whether this state institution, the RTV service, is entitled to charge a service that is not possible to consume from a potential consumer that is not, therefore potential, not a real consumer of that service. And let me tell you, I also think that on this issue, the management and management of RTV should take a clear view and make moves for the following: first create assumptions, provide a quality TV signal and, by my opinion and by nature of things, you don't need that great mind, and then go really into charge, literally billing for the tv tax. Of course, to the extent possible, if 100% possible. And in the end, just one conclusion. I think he's actually the most important, most important, which is that management and management of the tv service urgently, as quickly as possible, make good and quality and a comprehensive work programme that will include leaving the current situation, current financial opportunities, exit from this situation. And offer it to this Parliament for debate and, of course, there will be goals, dates etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15033	Thank you. I'm no longer registered, and I'd like to give my word to the Director of the Management Board, the chairman of the Public TV Service Management Board. Mr. Deretić, please. And I'd like to ask, here, if he can, to appreciate the time we're in and the conditions in which we work and to adapt his discussion to it. Here you go. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15034	I am sorry to have to respect the time, because I think we are talking about a really very, very serious problem and it is much more serious than it seems to us here in the Management Committee and you in Parliament. That's why I won't... say almost nothing of what I thought, and I wanted to explain a lot of things because there seems to be a lot of wandering and a lot of vagueness. I would just say a few sentences and ask you to allow us to come back to this Parliament and point to the burden of the problems that exist. One of your distinguished colleagues from the Bosniak people said, "Don't expect anything from Parliament, I don't believe that Parliament can help you very much, but listen to my advice: Stick to the law, stick to the acts, act vigorously, respect what the audit wrote, and you are safe in that variant. In every other version, someone will blame you. Here, gentlemen, we only respected these listed items and then I heard a series of unargued accusations at the expense of the board of directors. I would ask you to understand our position. We came in December last year and faced a series of irregularities that the state audit has also found. We've been reviewing reports from independent auditors this year on business and billing for tv fees, I'm stressing in 2005, because that's left over from the previous board of directors, fortunately or unfortunately, but I'm thinking of luck. Because those reports were so designed that we simply, based on them, couldn't concentrate. And I'll just quote you: we didn't get that and those documents, we couldn't be sure about that and we're not sure whether the main book of the tv service is giving a fair review, we didn't get the data on the billed tv taxi from the telecom operator, etc., etc. Based on such reports of independent audit houses, there were even contradictory two independent houses, one from Sarajevo, one from Zenica, we, as the people would say, have been deluded, have spoken to you with two letters, not to go out in front of you, because we are incompetent to judge in a period in which we have neither reached conclusions nor carried out. The result is a state-of-the-art review and a state-of-the-art state-of-the-art. I'd have a series of answers to some questions. We're not even thinking about the Director-General's shift, you may have misread it, but we're thinking and we're thinking about the manager's contract, which means the amount of personal income, because we're asking our director to be just as energetic as we are. It's not like it's coming from the province to start some shifts, but I assure you, it's all justified. If it's not argued, what's a state audit report like that about? So I'm saying, here's my colleague Agović, there aren't any misunderstandings between us, we only have different views. This board of directors has been unburdened for a while. Our colleague, Plamenko Čustović, is, because he carries part of the responsibility. He was the chairman of the board of directors at the time, as I will bear responsibility for the time I am. So I say – there is, there are both directors, both former and present – everything we ask, we ask for as much strength and energy as we have invested. Is that why I resent our director? He was supposed to name a new director of the music production in the spring! He didn't do it. Until today, we haven't chosen the music editor, the editor of the information program, it's been over a year. We asked for competitions for all editors. There's no record of any, etc. I don't want to bother you. 113 I am only asking you and I will finish, esteeming your time, I am convinced that this Board of Directors is well aware of the problem. I'm not going to say more importantly that I myself was the director of television and responsible editor and director of numerous film projects, I know how to do it on television. I know everything, what the people say, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what We have a series of arguments, but if we don't have your support, I don't know how we're gonna solve these problems. I'd like to explain to Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, if I'm okay, how it works. Here, we'll make an easy deal here in Parliament. You have chosen us, you will draw conclusions, we will implement them, but I ask if this Parliament is in charge of the Federal Television Management Board or the RTRS Management Board? Well, I, as chairman, can't do anything to them. They're leaving their session, they won't talk. For two years now, the Federal Management Board and Management has failed to comply with the marketing distribution decision because they say the Law on the Public TV System does not apply to them because they do not have their own law. Non-selective! So they respect the distribution of RTT fees but do not respect the distribution of marketing. But, for a wonderful miracle, on behalf of all three services, they do direct marketing with marketing agencies and what the audit has found: it is a direct conflict of interest. That is why they make twice as much of both services based on marketing, both the Public TV service of BiH and RTRS. Of course those people who negotiate directly will turn more into their own register. And believe me, we can't hurt them. That's the position. Pat's position. They're even kidding with us, he says, rather you'll leave than us. They can't change us, we don't have the law. There's no reason to change them either. And 30 is already somewhere millions of accumulated debts. BH television, according to our books, owes 8 million to their six million dollars. I don't know how we're gonna get it together, but we've agreed something, but, I'm afraid, it's gonna end up in court, and we don't have that interest. We're under the same roof. We provide services to the Croatian Federation of BiH because production people are located in BH TV. But they don't pay for those favors. Do we have the right to stop services, stop their program? We don't even think about it, we don't have the guts. It'd all be politicized and where we'd be. I'm sorry, this is all I did. I won't talk anymore. Let us have a chance. The thing is, I stress, much more serious and don't take us as the board of directors who's here and now do the dots, as the children say, is not valid. As some executives, previous boards have done nothing. They worked in a very rough time. They have visible results, but you have to understand us. We must protect ourselves against all those activities that were, so they were treated as illegal, in accordance with certain rules. We want to get everyone cleaned up, because I'm afraid she's going to be extremely ill next year. We even went on loan to settle the workers. If you ask the Management Board if it was justified to go into credit, revolving credit to pay the salaries, we don't know! But we need to calm the situation down, because it's going to be a boycott. I say, it's a lot, there's a lot of things we'd like to explain individually. It's not that simple. It's complicated, but we are who we are, and we're going to forcefully make all the moves at the cost of you taking our place, because that's all we see is the way out. Thank you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15035	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15036	Why isn't there a corporation to this moment, please? 114
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15037	This question will be answered even more pedanticly by Drago Marić and Mr Agović. We're all waiting for the law to be passed, the federal law as a condition to form a third board of directors, because only the boards elected under the new law can adopt statutes, elect a director, and that's the situation. And that's how we got the argument before the OHR if they don't want to change it. And I think that's what Mr. Marić said in the paper that earlier the OHR explained it that way. And here, we got from Mr. Ljubić two or three or four months ago the same explanation: that there is no legal basis to form, unless the High Representative, as well as about much else, if he does not interpret the laws. I don't think that would be popular.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15038	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15039	Well, I'm telling you, as they've been experiencing us for two years now, I think that BH television is damaged by at least 8 million marks, 7, 6, I don't know. There's no marketing schedule at that ratio of 50:25, and we can't do anything, we don't have any elements to deal with it, we stand up. We've given a deadline, somewhere, to establish marketing during this year, forgive the chairman, I've resigned from my promise to establish a new marketing strategy. It is, it can only be established with the consent of all three boards of directors, because it would be unfair competition. If we didn't have a common position, we'd be mining each other in the system, which would be in favor of commercial television. Do you think something has been done to date, except we're building a strategy that will be generally adopted, but the boards don't have to respect it, and I'm convinced that at least one television won't respect it, because that's how it works out this... space, because I'm talking about federal television, because they have great lines with people from marketing agencies, and I remind you, 80% of the marketing agencies are working on extremely unfavourable terms. That's what the state's audit said, and people can't understand that illogicality. It's not... until now that strategy is still accepted. If we decide to go to marketing alone, break the system, we'll be charged as the Management Board, and we'll go back to those marketing agencies, which I, I don't even know how much they accomplish based on marketing, I'm afraid more than television, and we made about 21 million in last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15040	Thank you. If Parliament approves, Mr Agović wanted to say something but I'm afraid we won't complicate the debate and I think it would be good if no one were to answer again, to conclude the debate. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I didn't say we wouldn't give. I suggested, of course we'll keep working. Dear Ambassador Kadrić wanted to say something first. Here you go. 115
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15041	I think that since we've spent so much time, it wouldn't have been insinuating, it wouldn't have been harmful for these two people to say the same thing about what problems they're facing in the work of this television. I think it's good and they should say they see this problem, Agović and Marić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15042	Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović wanted something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15043	Here, I had a need to stop at one of Mr. Deretić's statements, which is really worrying about me, because there's a bullet somewhere then. Article 42. The Law on the TV system, position (1) says - Until the establishment of the System Committee and individual boards of public broadcasters, the existing boards of directors will carry out their duties. And otherwise, the constitutional session of the System Committee is scheduled to be convened within 15 days. The board of the system is established, works, meets every month, and I don't know who could have given this different interpretation than it says strictly in this law. The system board's working, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15044	Wait a minute. Let's take it in a row. About what I suggested, the MPs came forward to discuss it, then we'll put it to a vote later on whether we'll allow people or not. So, first of all, Ambassador Lozančić pa Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15045	When I first called for the debate, I laughed a little bit here... and I think that later, especially this very brief step by the chairman of the board of directors, there's no one to laugh about. I volunteered not to comment on this because it would probably take a lot more than this one session to comment on just what the chairman of the board of directors said today, if he hadn't written a report at all. But this proposal also requires Mr Agović to address Parliament. Honestly, I would not mind if Mr Agović appeared more often in front of parlament and reported on the problems and asked for Parliament's help. However, what bothers me, here sits the chairman of the Management Board and sits the former director of the Public TV System. And the two of them sit and listen to us and the chairman of the board of directors, who suits us and reports us, comes out and informs us. Mr. Agović, the diametric opposite of them, is sitting. And it's an indicator of the condition on that television, no matter how beautiful we make it. So, no matter how beautiful he gets, no matter how much he gets, no matter how much he gets after this. Since Director Agović, with all due respect and respect, does not answer in this House, means he is not responsible for this Parliament and we do not really have anything with him. So he answers to this board of directors and let them answer. And let him make arrangements with them, and let him suggest possible solutions with them, through them. There's no need in particular and let's stop those 116 parallelisms. We talk about problems all the time. Let's try to solve them systematically. There's been a lot of appeal to the law and interpretation of the law. Let's act legal. So, with all due respect to Director Agović, I don't mind, we can talk whenever we want to talk in other ways, etc., but this is a system. We're in favor of the board of directors. The Management Board also submits a report to us and Mr Agović through the Management Board can communicate with this parliament as far as I'm concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15046	Thank you. Nanić wanted to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15047	Mr. Chairman, I've really given up a few needs to replicate, meaning a few replicas. However, here we are through the debate for this point, about this point of the agenda, burdened with one conclusion of the College that we will end, no matter when there is a debate or whether it is a conclusion. It's mostly like that: we'll work until we're done with this. I think the terms of the debate...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15048	Do you have another conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15049	I also comment on your conclusion and this proposal regarding requests to report to this gentleman in one const... atmosphere, in any case, as a bad solution. Not critically but really realistically looking at things. We're a burdened team, and here we keep a quorum at the border of people waiting for this to end, who packed things to get out of here and after talking to the board president, I really think it's just now that certain questions have been raised that need to be discussed. This isn't a criticism for you. I'm looking at you, I'd like to see someone else there, so yeah, but it's for all of us. And those who are resilient MPs, us 20 and something left, we should be punished, waiting just to finish and leave. 16 conclusions we have suggested. What, what's the way out of this session? I really think this session needs this agenda point and a debate on this issue, and I don't think we'll solve anything if we cut it short, and now we say: here we are, let's vote that we haven't done anything with the public service and systems, etc. Yes, indeed, we need to conclude this session, conclude work today, tonight, and continue to allow discussions further after this, to hear what people have to say and see how with these conclusions? In that sense, I have come to suggest, because I really think that if we stop now just because we're tired, because this isn't the atmosphere to work on this agenda point, if we break up, just because we're tired, which is late, the time, that we won't answer the problems they have and what we've been talking about today all day. In that sense, I suggest, that we bring this session to an end, to arrange a follow-up whenever possible, when we agree. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15050	Dear MP Belkić, also on proposals for the continuation of this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15051	As for the proposal... Mr. Nanić, I can agree with him, of course, to pick up where we left off. So, to allow Mr Deretić not to shorten his exposure, which he has now shortened, etc., but I have reported primarily because of the following. As far as I'm concerned, as my colleague Lozanačić, Mr Agović, director of television and former director of television, who is covered by the audit report, said I can speak to this parliament. I understand what Mr. Lozančić was talking about. He spoke about the relationship of this Parliament to the Management Board, etc., the Management Board and the Director, etc. It's a principle that should really be respected. However, our current practice, when it comes to allowing this parliament to be addressed, was not so limited. And I think the debate was that kind of nature, including issues and dilemmas that are not transmitted or transmitted by television, here are the people we can hear it from. But for me at this point, it is less important than the issue of reform, than whether this reform will be a reason not to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I'm sorry, but that's the key question. We need to find a way to speed up this process, not ignoring what Mr. Deretić is talking about. Absolutely that I will accept the review report and absolutely seek responsibility. Let anyone who's committed crime go to jail! Do you think, Mr. Deretić, that someone here will be against the Audit Report, etc.? Bog forbid!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15052	The answer to the replica, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15053	I wouldn't want to... get it all wrong. So I want to explain, because I think it's just a misunderstanding of what I said. It's not about any... conflict, etc. First, I would like to say to Mr Agović: I very much appreciate your role and your position and whenever you are created..., if there is a need for it, you may also ask that you address this paragraph and be a rapporteur and be responsible for this palmo for what you are doing, that you will be very happy to listen to and listen to your suggestions. So it's a system. Because we have all this condition and we've heard it. We don't have a system, people! We don't have a system, then. We've got practice. We have practice like this, we don't have... what it says in the law. We have practice like this, we don't have... what it says in the law. Well, be careful, so we have some practice. So this isn't individual, it's not personal. Let's start with that! Let's get in charge, because I can't like what Mr. Agović says. Perhaps I would suggest then, asking for his responsibility here immediately from Parliament. But then you'll tell me he's not responsible for us. So, in what capacity? So I don't personally mind. We've got the board of directors and it bothers me, and now I'm gonna say it, which besides the president, we don't have all the board members here today to listen to this and to all of us here at the session. I agree with Mr. Nanić. I think it would be a sin to break up now and speed this up. So, I agree and I don't think we're really able to end it tonight. Here, we can suggest a term of 118 when we continue the debate, exactly where we left off, so let's continue, to come really up with the right proposals, but I expect, I must say, from both the president and all the board members to come here and make a concrete proposal on how to resolve the situation where the problems are, because we see a lot of problems. And that... that way we can help them, not that we're moving balls here to each other now, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15054	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15055	The word has been respected by President Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15056	Your Honor, I'd like to invite you to help me. What you're doing, it's not Parliament's face. One deal, after that, in the best desire to help me, you can do it. We put this item on the agenda at 4:00! It's 20.15! At the beginning of yesterday's session, I informed you that next week are holidays celebrated by Muslim believers or citizens in BiH and that afterwards is the week in which the celebrations of the holidays are members of the Catholic religion, that the only date we managed to find is 28th of this month, and I asked anyone to propose any other date to adopt it here to continue this session. 28, among other things, we have very important agenda points such as the budget, such as confirming the Council of Ministers, the chairman, and hopefully everything else, and I'm asking you, if we leave this agenda point for the 28th and we open up the way we talked today, whether you think we'll be all responsible, or just me as chairman, which we won't end the agenda or the 28th, which we won't be in a position to discuss the budget, which we won't be in a position to have a Council of Ministers. And in particular, I call on the assembly majority not to help me anymore because this is what we are making this House unserious. And that's why I'd ask you, no matter how important this agenda point is, and we all know because we've been discussing this agenda for four and a half hours and we've been discussing it all the time, that we're going as we agreed. I will put on the vote on a proposal to turn other members here to Parliament if Parliament accepts it. I'll Stavić in a motion to interrupt the session and continue the 28th. Anything this Parliament accepts, I will consider it Parliament's will, but don't be the responsibility of just the chairman or this college. It will be the responsibility of everyone here who voted in favour of that proposal. I'm putting it to a vote. There's no more discussion about this. I am putting the motion to vote to allow other members, I am thinking of Mr Agović and Mr Matić, to address Parliament. I ask Parliament to prepare itself for this proposal to come forward. You can vote. Now! "For" 15, "against" 12, one "abstained" and an insufficient entity majority. We don't have the consent. 119 Let's go to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 14, "against" 12, "restricted" one. 11 is "against" from the RS, the proposal has not passed. We have a proposal to interrupt the session, without the conclusion of the debate, and to continue it on 28th. I'm asking Dom to come forward with this proposal. I would ask Parliament to declare this proposal, and the second proposal I have proposed to vote on the report on the work of the Public Television Service, on the report on the work of the Management Board, on the Commission's Opinion with conclusions, on the Commission's report on the Office for Audit, and that all the conclusions we have received, given that there are many compatible, we should forward to our Commission for Transport and Communications (as we have done with the conclusions on the DKP network towards our Foreign Affairs Commission) and that it propose together those conclusions that will be agreed between them in this Parliament, which does not exclude all those who propose conclusions which the Commission has not proposed, too, asking that these conclusions be made. We can end that agenda point now. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15057	Let me help you get out of this session in a good way, and in that context, you understand my report, right? I don't want to be complicated. This is an important question and I agree that we finish the discussion today. As far as that goes, there's no problem. But I would also ask that the report on the work of the Management Board and the conclusions of the Commission and the proposals for the conclusions that we have received today be given to our commission. Let's keep it all calm. We'll obviously have to deal with this question, we don't have to do 28. We'll deal with this after 28, but we'll have to deal with these questions. And that, then, that we have that thing back here in session, because I agree with Mr. Deretić that this is an extremely serious situation, an extremely serious thing and Parliament, I don't think it can go over this this way, because 28th you'll have the same story again, the same conversation, no matter what on the agenda. That's why I'm asking you, if there's any more discussion? I am sorry that Parliament has not decided to allow other people to speak here. But that's a decision, which I can do now because our goal is to help, to help as much as we can solve that problem. So, my suggestion is, if you will, you take it into consideration. Me, you don't have to put him to the vote. Here, I'm telling you this, that all of what we have today we give to the Commission, so her report and these conclusions, are a lot of conclusions that complement the Commission's views. Let the Commission sit down one more time, and then we'll put it back in session and we'll discuss it here because we'll have to deal with this issue. We can't just end this tonight and the 28th have a vote. That's it. 120
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15058	I know you wanted to help but now we have five others who would also like to help. Dear Messenger Nanić, the honourable Messenger Raguž. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15059	I don't know why Nanić wouldn't want to help. I'm just saying, I made a proposal to break up, I didn't say that... the sequel was 28. We've got things that need to be under procedure and priority before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15060	Please suggest the date of any. Offer a date!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15061	I can't, I said the date: when you, when the College agrees that a session could be continued.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15062	Yes, you can. Propose any date and we'll put it to a vote. Feel free to suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15063	I don't want to suggest a date, because that, I don't know the schedules of what other schedules are. I just suggested it, I didn't speak dates.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15064	Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15065	Mr. President, I think you've had a good session today and keep that dimension for the rest of the five minutes. No, you said we're out of a deal. Not at all. We worked four and a half hours, all together with you, responsible and serious. And now we don't have to: at 4:00 a.m., have one verdict, at 2:00 p.m. the other? Things change, and we need to be flexible and smart to get out of this together thing that we've been doing the most excessive conclusion. And I think the conclusion is objectively so that tonight we can't all look at it quality enough and we've all worked together, all of us. I don't potential anyone here. And therefore, the Commission, therefore these conclusions, all who have reached a conclusion, let the Commission call on them. Let him call them, and we'll get them ready. Here we've heard that there's a serious situation from the board of directors, that there's a lot that we haven't even opened up tonight, that it's there. Let's invite other people, let them all say what they have, who are responsible for this. And let's do something, finally some shift here. Is that gonna be 28, won't it? If you judge as a College, we will support you to be 10.1. Until then, the Governing Board shall implement its legal obligations. He has a legal obligation. Here's the answer to Azra. Why is this law not being implemented? Let him make a plan for next year. It's his legal obligation. So we'll plan and all that, we'll do it. But we can't say that we're something, 121 someone, now we're detached from some of the agreements that we're making today, that's a suggestion, and I don't think we should run away from making one quality decision at 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-13-0.u15066	Please, can we try to solve the situation in a way that the reports we have here and that we send all the conclusions that we have here to our committee and ask her to propose whether this will be a full-time debate of Parliament one day, whether we will make this clear immediately, at the next session and on everything we vote on, or we will end up only in the conclusions and on the reports they have. I know we are putting a great burden on our commission, but I would ask Parliament to vote this conclusion and let and give to people who have worked very hard on this, along with all who have proposed conclusions, but together with the people who work in the television system, to sit together and propose to this Parliament whether or not we will have another debate, if it takes all day. Please vote on that conclusion right now. Prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! “For” 26, “against” was not, “abstained” one. I'm closing up on the 23rd and 24th points of the agenda. We're left with the 25th and the rest of the agenda, which we'll continue to mean the 28th because we couldn't find any other day. I want to congratulate all those who celebrate Kurban-Kurban-bajram and I want all those who celebrate the holidays of Christmas to celebrate them in peace until the next session and to warn you that the 28th session will continue with this but also a great opportunity to continue after the end and with another session. I thank you again. The seat's finished at 8:30.
