ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8641	Gentlemen and honored guests, I am opening the third session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. So, once again, I welcome all of you together, especially I welcome the members of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, the Council of Ministers Chairman, representatives of international organisations, media representatives, and, of course, I particularly welcome the newly appointed ministers and deputies, whose confirmation of the Decision on appointment will be discussed today. With a call for today's session, you have received a draft agenda, of course with my apology and clarification that you have just received certain materials, which was the reason for the need to carry out the appropriate procedures, primarily I mean the work of the Commission to prepare the election of ministers, i.e. Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Minister of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So the draft agenda, or agenda for today's session, you get. I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda, or rather, I am opening the possibility of proposing amendments and any additions to the proposed agenda. Please, if no one is answering, allow me, for the record, to establish the agenda of today's session, the third session of the House of Representatives. So at point one, we have one. The adoption of the minutes from the Constitutional and 2nd Session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, 2nd. Decision establishing the termination of the term of office of MP in the House of Representatives, Nikola Špirić, for confirming the Decision appointing the Chair of the Council of Ministers, 3. Confirming the appointment of Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2 4.The election of Permanent Commissions of the House of Representatives; - Constitutional and Legal Commission, - Foreign Affairs Commission, - the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, - the Commission for Finance and Budget, - the Commission for Transport and Communications and - the Commission for Gender Equality. 5.We also have the choice of members of the joint committees from the Representative's House, therefore; - Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, - Joint Security and Intelligence Commission on the work of the BiH Security and Intelligence Agency, - Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development, - Joint Commission on European Integration, - Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs and - Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics. In the College, we agreed to work somewhere up to half a dozen today, and to take a break in half a dozen reasons, so also religious nature, and the possibility that, if we finish this session, this point of the agenda, so if we can confirm the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Minister, let's make one small, so to speak, possibility of congratulating and so to say, uh, one of that solemn part to organize within the sitting today. So, if you don't mind, I'd like to take the agenda. So, under Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from the Constitutional Session and the 2nd Session of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina Let's go one at a time. Any objections to the minutes of the Constitutional House of Representatives? There isn't. I'd like to make a statement on the minutes of the Constitutional Session. Vote now. I find that we have practically unanimous with 38 votes for, without opposition and abstentions, adopted the record from the Constitutional Session. We are going to a statement on the minutes with the 2nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Vote now. I also find that the minutes of the 2nd session of the House of Representatives were adopted with 38 votes in favour, with no votes against and without abstentions. 3 We move to point 2. It's about Ad2. Decisions establishing the termination of the term of office of MP at Mr Nikola Špirić's House of Representatives for the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, i.e. attestation by this House
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, I think it is useful and necessary at this point to refer to the Commission's work to prepare the Council of Ministers' election, as this job, for the first time in the history of the post-war Parliamentary Assembly, is being done by domestic institutions in BiH as a whole. Earlier, an international institution, mostly OHR, has done this, as it is known. This time the whole procedure, since the appointment by political entities, the candidacy, through the addition of these data, was concluded at the 4th Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers for the election of the SIPA and the Central Election Commission for the necessary information. So, in a complete arrangement of domestic institutions. You are aware that the Commission is bound by law and by the Rules of Procedure, in a way that the representative of each political entity in the Parliamentary Assembly participates in the work of the Commission. And that's how we had 12 members of the Commission preparing the Council of Ministers' election. Of course, every beginning is difficult. And there were doubts, there were questions in the commission's work. We have resolved every misunderstanding and every question by consensus of all the representatives in the Commission. So, a representative of all political parties. Of course, voting on candidates in the Candus recommendation... that's something else. Seeking to fully implement the Law on the Selection of the Council of Ministers, and the Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, we have chosen to establish the highest standards regarding the transparency of the work of this Commission. And in the principles of work, by adopting the Rules of Procedure unanimously, we have established the principle that the full work of this Commission is accompanied by means of information and that all information available to the Commission is also available by means of information. I think it is a standard that is good to begin with and will not have any objections, regardless of which political group made up the parliamentary majority in this parliamentary assembly. It was there, of course, and removing the shortcomings that always appear at the outset, so we noticed that the form created by the Central Election Commission was not enough, however, to respect the implicit demands of the Council of Ministers Act, which requires everything to be stated in the candidate's property state and we have defined ourselves, however, to respect the Council of Ministers Act, and to ask for further information, considering, and this is a unanimous assessment of this commission, that the Central Election Commission should, however, complete and improve this form. It is also estimated that the principle and procedure of verifying the property of civil servants and property...functioners in BiH, according to the anti-corruption group in the Council of Europe, that it is necessary to perfect the system, that further questions need to be agreed, so as not to seek failures. The debate on the Commission itself was led on the principle that we respect the dignity of the candidates and the messages we received from the candidates, I think that they point out that we have succeeded, maintaining the necessary level of focus on the subject, where, of course, the issues were politically intrinsically intrinsically in existence, and that is, I think, inevitable, if it is in the light of the composition of the commission and, of course, the politically intrinsic issues, there have been political intrinsic and answers. It can be understood why the public's attention largely gathers the issue of the property situation of officials and politicians in BiH on existing opportunities in Bosnia, social, that is understandable. It is understandable, however, that this system, as we have said, should be perfected, and it is understandable that this attention will be present and that opportunities will change in BiH, because this issue is interesting throughout Europe and in the world, whether it is far more advanced and stable societies than it is in the Bosnian-Herzegovian society. 5 You, of course, have also received the Commission's opinion on the candidate for each Commission statement. I won't be more careful, since you have in writing that report. And as you can see, all the candidates received a recommendation from the Commission, some with a greater difference of votes for, and some with a smaller difference in votes for and against, but all candidates for ministers and deputies, who, with whom the conversation was conducted and who were discussed on the Commission, received a majority of the Commission's recommendations. As is known, the Law also requires that members of the Commission who are against explain their reasons against. And you have those arguments of voting against. And mostly these reasons come down to general arguments, with a minor exception. There is a possibility that those members of the Commission who do not state their reasons for voting against may have the opportunity to explain it at the sitting itself by stating in the Report of our Commission that these reasons are not mentioned in this report. I would like to thank, on this occasion, all my colleagues who participated in the work of the Commission, therefore, everyone who has really contributed to the establishment of the principles and the final content of this Commission's work. I would, of course, like to finally thank the representatives of the media who have been monitoring our day-to-day meetings, and especially those who have mostly correctly transferred both the Commission's work and the atmosphere from the Commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8646	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. I hope this will benefit all of us, but I am obliged to comply with Article 142. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would like to read to you the decision of the Council of Ministers to appoint ministers and deputy ministers. I pray for patience, therefore, on the basis of Articles 5, 10, 10f) and 17. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers "The Official Messenger of BiH" 33/3,42/3 and 81/6, I am taking the decision to appoint a deputy chairman, minister and deputy minister of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Article 1 - for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Sven Alkalaj, - for the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr Slobodan Puhalac, - for the Minister of Finance and Treasury, at the same time as the Deputy Prime Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Dragan Vrankić, - for the Minister of Communications and Transport, Mr Božo Ljubić, - for the Minister of Civil Affairs, Mr Sredoje Nović, - for the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, and, at the same time, for the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Safet Halilović, - here is obviously a technical mistake, I apologize, therefore, for the Minister of Human Rights, Refugees, at the same time for the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, i.e., pardon, Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Safet Sadović, Mr. Tarik Selmo, - for Minister of Justice, Mr. Minister of Justice, Cikotić Bariša, Minister of the Minister of Justice, Minister of Justice and Minister of Justice, Minister of the Minister of the Council, Minister of the Minister of Justice, Minister of the Minister of the Council, Mr. Article 2 - as Deputy Ministers of the Council of Ministers of BiH are appointed; - as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ms Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic, - Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, Mr Vilim Primorac, - Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, Mr Fuad Kasumović, - Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Mr Slavko Marin, - Deputy Minister of Justice Mr Srđan Arnaut, - Deputy Minister of Security, Mr Mijo Krešić, - and Deputy Minister for Resource Management, Ms Marina Pendeš. Article 3 - Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning will be appointed later. Article 4 - This decision takes effect on the date of confirmation appointed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Exceptionally from Article 1 of this Article, the appointment and confirmation of the appointment of the Minister of Defence shall take effect on 22 April 2007. Here, that's the final content of the decision. It is signed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Dr Nikola Špirić. I note, therefore, that I have read the consolidated text that will help you because you have probably received this initial text of Decisions and amendments and additions to the Decisions on appointments on two occasions. So, I'm opening a debate. Of course, first of all, I am giving the chairman of the Council of Ministers the opportunity to give additional arguments regarding these candidacys. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8647	...members of the BiH Presidency,... The representative home of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the ambassadors and representatives of the international community, the respected presidents of political parties, representatives of the BiH media, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and friends, almost a month after my presentation in this high house, I am again in front of my 7 former colleagues, this time proposing the names of ministers and deputy ministers who need their knowledge, experience, desire and energy to respond to the increasing demands of BiH citizens. After confirming my appointment of the new BiH Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives on 11 January 2007, I received proposals from parties representing the parliamentary majority, for ministers or deputy ministers at the Council of Ministers of BiH. In line with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, "The Official Messenger" No. 81/06, I delivered to the Central Election Commission of BiH and SIPA the completed and confirmed forms, namely candidates for ministers and deputy ministers. In accordance with Article 10.d) of the same law, the Central Election Commission has carried out checks on whether any of the proposed candidates fulfils all the necessary conditions for the choice prescribed by the BiH Election Law and that they are not subject to any incompatible duty prescribed by that law, as well as the conditions prescribed by the Law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities. On the basis of the results of the checks carried out on 31 January 2007, the Central Election Commission of BiH issued and provided me with certificates of compliance with the conditions prescribed by the Law to appoint ministers or deputy ministers to the Council of Ministers of BiH for all candidates I propose today in this House. For its part, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH, on the basis of Article 10, the position of the 5th law on amendments and additions to the Council of Ministers' Law, has carried out verifications of the credibility of the data and a statement for candidates on the job of ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH. On 2 February 2007, the Agency for Protection and Investigations provided me with a list of candidates for which the accuracy of those data from the forms submitted was confirmed. This has resulted in conditions for me to submit, under the same law, statements by all candidates for the future Council of Ministers of BiH to the members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers and to request an opinion, a recommendation from the same Commission to confirm ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Following talks with all proposed candidates, the Committee for the Preparation of the Council of Ministers of BiH, on the basis of Article 46a) position 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure gave me an opinion on the similarities of all appointed ministers and deputy ministers to perform their duties in the Council of Ministers of BiH. On the basis of Articles 5, 10, 10.f) and 17. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, "The Official Messenger No. 30/03, 42/03 and 81/06, I have made the Decision appointing the deputy chairman, minister and deputy minister of the Council of Ministers of BiH in the following composition; - I appoint Mr. Sven Alkalaj as Minister of Foreign Affairs, 8 Sven Alkalaj was born in Sarajevo on 12 November 1948. He is a graduate engineer and master of economic science and international relations. In 1999, he completed courses for managers and corporate finance at a specialist school in Harvard. He worked first in Petrolinvest, in Energoinvest. After 1994, a diplomatic career began. First as ambassador to Washington, then to the BiH Foreign Ministry, and until today's appointments worked as an ambassador to Belgium at NATO. - As Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I appoint Mr. Slobodan Pohalac. Slobodan Pohalac was born in Visegrad on 11 November 1941. He graduated from the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Sarajevo. He spent his entire working life in the economy. After graduation, he was employed at the AIPK plantation Gradiška. For several years he worked as an expert associate in Banja Luka AIPK – The World Bank Project Implementation Unit and the AIPK Research Institute. Prior to the transition to long-term management of Banja Lukasport, he worked in Sarajevo's Poliexport, and AIPK Levita from Bosnia Gradiška. - For the finance and vault minister, at the same time as one of the vice-presidents, I appoint Mr Dragan Vrankić. Dragan Vrankić was born in Trebizat on 23 January 1955. He graduated from the Faculty of Tourism and Foreign Trade in Dubrovnik. He spent a considerable part of his career on public duty. In two moments, he served as finance minister in the government of the Herzegova-Neretva County and its mayor. Until today's appointment, he was the finance minister in the Federation of BiH government. - As Minister of Communications and Transport, I appoint Mr. Božo Ljubić. Božo Ljubić was born on September 30th 1949 in Široki Brijeg. He graduated from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Zagreb. For many years, he worked at the Ortoped Clinic in Sarajevo. In two terms, he served as health minister in the Federation of BiH government. At the same time he was, and worked until today as a doctor specialist at the orthopedic clinic in Mostar and a professor at the University of Mostar Medical School. - As Minister of Civil Affairs, I appoint Mr. Sredoje Nović. Sredoje Nović was born on 14 February 1947 in Derventa. He graduated from Sarajevo University. There he also acquired the title of the Master of Legal Sciences. He spent a significant part of his career in the Republic Department of Interior. After six years of activity in the economy, he returned to Republika Srpska's National Security Service and was soon appointed as RS Interior Minister. Until his appointment as BiH Council of Ministers' Ministers' Ministers' Minister, he served as SIPA's director. 9 - For the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, I appoint Mr Safet Halilović. Safet Halilović was born in Bosnia Gradisca on April 3rd 1951. He graduated, mastered and doctored at the University of Sarajevo on political sciences where he works as a professor. During the post-war period, he acts as a member of the Federation of BiH Parliament, i.e. as minister of education, science, information in Canton of Sarajevo, then as vice president and president of the Federation of BiH, and minister of civil affairs at the BiH Council of Ministers. The author is more books, studies and essays. - As Minister of Justice, I'm calling Mr. Bariša Čolak. Bariša Čolak was born on January 1st 1956 in Široki Brijeg. He graduated from law school at the University of Mostar Law School. He worked as a judge at the Municipality court in Shiroki Brijeg. He then worked as an assistant minister, so the prime minister of justice in the Croatian government, Herceg Bosnia, as president of the Western-Herzegovina County government, as minister of justice in the Federation of BiH government. Prior to his appointment as BiH Council of Ministers' Justice minister, he served as Minister of Security at the BiH Council. - For the Minister of Security and at the same time as one of the vice-presidents, I appoint Mr. Tarik Sadović. Tarik Sadović was born in 1956 in Trebinj. He graduated from the Architectural and Urban Faculty in Sarajevo. Before the war he worked in Trebinj at the construction company "Neimarstvo". For a time, he worked as a professor of professional studies at the Architectural School of Engineering. After the war, he led the Office for the Resolution of Status Issues of Exiles and Refugees. Before his appointment, he served in three terms as MPs at the National Assembly of the RS. - As Deputy Foreign Minister, I appoint Ms. Ana Trišić-Babić Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic was born on 9 February 1967 in Banja Luka. He's a graduate lawyer. She worked, among other things, as head of the Media and NGOs Development Project in BiH, assistant head of the OHR political department in Banja Luka, adviser for international relations in the cabinet of RS Prime Minister Milorad Dodik. Prior to this appointment, she worked as an assistant minister at the BiH Foreign Ministry. - As Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I appoint Mr. Vilim Primorac. Vilim Primorac was born in 1957 in Chitluk. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Mostar. As an expert in economic affairs, he worked on several projects and performed several management functions in the companies "Ledo", "Integra" and "Eurošped". He was the 10 Director-General of Payment Transport in Mostar and Deputy Director-General of the Federal Payments Service. Before his appointment, he was the Director of the Sector at Raiffeisen Bank. - As Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, I appoint Mr Fuad Kasumović. Fuad Kasusmović was born on 20 March 1958 in Gornji Vakuf. He graduated from the Faculty of Economics in Sarajevo. He started his career as a director of coal mining "Gračanica“ in Gornji Vakuf. On several occasions, he was an assistant or deputy finance minister, either in the Central Bosnian Canton, or in the Federation of BiH government. He was Deputy Director of the Federal Customs Administration and a member of several expert groups. - I appoint Mr. Slavko Marin as Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees. Slavko Marin was born on November 11th 1958 in Novi Travnik. He graduated from the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Sarajevo as well as from the University of Social Work School in Sarajevo. He worked at the New Travnik Defence Secretariat, as chief inspector of the Federation of BiH's defence ministry. Prior to today's appointment, he worked as a military affairs adviser in the BiH cabinet of the Croatian people's president. - As Deputy Minister of Justice, I appoint Mr. Srđan Arnaut. Srđan Arnaut was born in Sarajevo on May 03rd 1950. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Sarajevo. Before the war he was, among other things, the secretary of the Parliament of the City of Novi Grad. After the war, he served as secretary of the Canton of Sarajevo Assembly from 1992 to 1997, as advisers at the Novi Grad Assembly. He was the secretary general of the BiH presidency. Prior to today's appointment, he was Assistant Minister for General Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. - I appoint Mr. Mije Krešić as Deputy Minister of Security. Mijo Krešić was born on October 1st 1966 in Zivonica. He finished the Military Academy of the Land Army in Belgrade. Before the war, he was a military man. In 1997, he left the Armed Forces of BiH and moved to the private company "Intermpex" Tuzla where he became director and where he works today. - As Deputy Minister for Resource Management, I appoint Ms. Marina Pendeš Marina Pendeš was born on 20 August 1964 in Travnik. She graduated from the Faculty of Military and Engineering in Zagreb. She was an independent designer at TrZ "Travnik", head of the TKCSB department "Vitez", was also minister of spatial planning, reconstruction and return of the Central Bosnian County. By the time she was appointed to the BiH Council of Ministers, she worked in the same place. 11 An extensive biography in writing will be accompanied by my presentation today. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, dear colleagues, as I pointed out at this same place on January 11th, increased responsibility will be the meaning and principle of future work of the Council of Ministers. The results will be the only measure of the success of this Council of Ministers. This is my main message to both this House and future members of the Council of Ministers of BiH. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have the honour to ask for confirmation of my decision to appoint the deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the Council of Ministers of BiH. I also want you, of course, to confirm today, therefore, the Minister's name in waiting for Mr Selme Cikotić, therefore, in addition to the decision, is also written to confirm his appointment, the appointment of the post on 22 April this year. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, I want to thank you, so to everyone who has contributed and lived with me and my cabinet these twenty days. I am happy that we have promised the public that the last day of the first week of February will be the day when we will establish a new Council of Ministers and we have fulfilled that by working day and night. I thank the Central Election Commission, which my job, not at the expense of quality checks, ended in the short term and the SIPA, thanks to the chairman, Mr Beriz Belkić and the members of the College of Chairmans, thanks to all those who helped to successfully, hopefully, bring the end to this job. I owe special gratitude to the members who worked with me and who will perform, as part of my cabinet, the most prominent duty, that is Mr. Slobodan Šoja, and then Dario Šikuljak, Srećko Bursać, Samir Ćorović and others who, unfortunately, or fortunately, I will not mention here today, all of us together expect serious jobs. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this Council of Ministers today will be confirmed and that, from today on, we will be seriously working on reforms that are a major challenge for Bosnia and Herzegovina, but which are fatal to BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8648	I thank Mr. Chairman. I'm opening a debate. Please, please, please sign up so we can sort of do, uh, make a plan and schedule, so, this time to try before the break I announced to finish the job. So, at this point it appears, Mr. Selim Bešlagić, then Jozo Križanović, Mr. Zorić, just a moment, just a moment, just one moment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8649	Respected, respected presidency, respected members of the BiH presidency, respected Excellencys, gentlemen ambassadors, respected former ministers of the Council of Ministers and future ministers of the Council of Ministers, respected co-workers and colleagues. 12 Let me say that I am happy that I have welcomed today, that Mr Špirić has proposed candidates, and as Mr Genjac said, after the commission that carried out the check, one of the tasks that Mr Špirić has set in his exposé has said. What I must stress when Mr. Špirić put up with the exposés, he said a sentence that was very, very important to me. And she said, "I Tražić ask the president of the parties to offer the right candidates with the best qualifications," I was very pleased to say, for the simple reason that I think we must simply have people who are willing to withdraw and, in fact, this BiH with the Council of Ministers or with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, certainly with the Presidency, pull forward. Looking at today's decision that Mr. Špirić, uh, presented and the calls that have been made by the ministers, I must say that I am delighted that this condition has been met. I am particularly pleased at two points, it is the minister of traffic and communication, transport and communication Dr Božo Ljubić, where there is no reference to any element in this area. And the second reference, or second man, is, that is Mr. Tarik Sadović, who is an architect by vocalization, or a graduated architect, I don't mind, if, here, and this commission who first took part in this, has felt that these people can contribute. I would therefore ask you to take this as my remark, because I tried, at least at the Ministry of Roads and Communications, to find any connection between, I would say, the profession of Dr Ljubić and traffic and communication. I really have to say, all I've tried to do is find it in the explanation that, due to a large number of accidents, since Dr. Ljubić is orthopedic, it probably has connections, car accidents. I don't see any other reason, I don't want anyone to get angry, but I consider this a very important remark unless Mr. Ljubić shows something in his work where I'm going to be willing to apologize. Another thing I'd like to ask Mr. Špirić, I think today should have been called the entire Council of Ministers. For one simple reason why the argument that Mr Selmo Cikotić should performs is that, in April of the month, it is waiting for a condition that should be raced... or, in other words, the question arises whether the party proposed by Mr Selm Cikorić had candidates who could meet this condition. Why am I talking? I speak for the reason I believe that Mr. Radovanović, who performed this function, was an extraordinary frame, in my opinion. He did very much and I expected that this is exactly where to find a man who will succeed Mr. Radovanović. Unfortunately, there's a chance we're waiting. I wish I knew the reason. If that is the reason, because there was no other frame that could be suggested, it was a matter that had to be presented. And finally, I would like to say, from ministers who have been held in the current Council of Ministers, I would just like to point out that the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees who has been, Mr Kebo, who has done his job extremely well, has now been proposed to Sefer Halilović, who had, Safet Halilović, I apologize, who had, I apologized, who played the role of the Minister of Civil Affairs, I believe. I must say that Mr. Safet Halilović was the minister who was least visible and also by the work he was doing, so I doubt he would be able to continue, I would say one of the most difficult jobs waiting for this ministerial council to protect human rights. Here I think, first of all, 13 of the decertified police officers, because it's a question that is extremely important in protecting human rights, at least that part, and all other rights, because as a member of the commission, I know the width of that area. I would ask once again that all this I said, I don't mean anything by the people who are here, but by the professional part, I said I was afraid these candidates would be able to do what they expect in the time ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8650	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Zorić, let Mr. Bećirević prepare himself further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8651	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would have come from this opinion or report, and one and another called it the chairman of the commission. This committee for verifying candidates for ministers and deputy ministers worked for three days. Each of the candidates I listened to and asked questions asked whether they would cooperate better with the Parliamentary Assembly than the predecessors did. The answer was yes. And I thank them for that. The same response was given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers when he was interviewed on 11 January this year. We sat for three days, and at the beginning of the first day, on the 6th, I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come and answer whether the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers was a matter of political agreement, with only two letters, yes or no. The co-operation with the committee that is part of this House of Representatives was that within 3 days, the chairman of the Council of Ministers could not come and tell those two spells yes or no. However, it did not bother me how much, in this opinion or report of this committee that I am a member, there are six rare reasons for leaving Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's session, which did not attend the three candidates' examination. However, my reasons for the commission in the four or five times have not been mentioned in this report. Namely, I said it was not okay from the chairman of the Council of Ministers who, among other things, tied himself to the commission to appoint deputy ministers after the political agreement between these seven political parties that signed the agreement. Of course, by the time he got the commission's trust, there was already a political agreement on the appointment of ministers. And I didn't, and I said it several times in the microphone on the commission, I didn't attend the review of candidates Marina Pendeš, Vilim Primorac, Mije Krešić and Slavko Marino. Why? Because there was no political agreement on the appointment of deputy ministers from the Croatian people. I would like the chairman of the Council of Ministers at least to have touched this issue here at a pay phone, not to have us as the strongest arguments here, to confirm, this Council of Ministers is the dates of birth and the year of birth of these candidates. 14 I must say here that I have two decisions to appoint a deputy. One original, unconfirmed in the Protocol, which we were looking for the 6th and we got after an hour and a half, and the other, here, which was welcomed and protocold today, which, therefore, I doubt there was no decision at all. And apparently the chairman of the Council of Ministers couldn't come to the committee all day and give us some further explanations. But, however, I as a legalist, since this is about, yes, let me say this too. We received a supplement of the Decision yesterday at the session and an interview was conducted with Mr. Cikotić. However, I do not know why a decision has not been made and for the remaining three deputy ministers. So if you say so, the decision might come into effect sometime when you and those conditions are met. In the same way, therefore, it could have been done for these other candidates. I don't know why some appointment with a delay was put in when, and so on, not all places in the Council of Ministers were filled. I must say, I think that Article 3 of this decision could have written, unless three deputies were appointed, that seven deputies were not appointed. I repeat, therefore, and I underline that there was no political agreement for the distribution of the post, deputy ministers from the Croatian people, so the Council of Ministers would have quorum and we could have done it in due time and time. I'll finish that sentence I started. Since it is eight ministers, and it seems to me to be three deputy ministers, Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic, Fuad Kasumović and Srđan Arnaut, I will give my voice to this Council of Ministers because I do not know how to lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8652	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Bećirević. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself. I beg you, you have no reason to be nervous. I recorded you applying. Here, I'm asking you to sign up, otherwise, here's Mr. Raguž, Mr. Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8653	The Honorable Chairman, Evo today, is finally ahead of us with a decision on the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers to the BiH Council of Ministers, although indeed with a huge and huge delay. I believe that effective decisions would be made in this case, today's decision to appoint ministers and deputy ministers is necessary to respect several important steps. First of all, I believe that it is necessary to proceed with the Council of Ministers' task and the tasks of each minister in person. When setting someone up in a particular ministry, it is necessary to know, above all, the description of the ministry's affairs. And every responsible prime minister and every responsible ruling coalition comes first and foremost. So, first of all, consider the potential qualification of a candidate. Why? Because formal qualification is a minimum condition without which you cannot move on. Today, we have, behold, witnesses, all of us on the table of the Decision to appoint, that there are 15 such candidates who, apparently, are free to say, are not competent to run certain ministries. My predecessors, here, mentioned an example of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. And it's really illogical for a doctor to run the area of traffic and communication. Did the prime minister himself, along with the ruling coalition, take care of the quality of his ministers, or today this composition is again the product of one of the many rotten compromises that we have seen in this country in the last decade and over, it is before us, to evaluate all together today. What is certain today is that the ruling bloc today will have to show confidence and support in these candidates. And not every single one for his own, but for all, therefore, in the package. This means that today we will have a chance to see how, for example, SNSD MPs raise their hands for ministers from the Party for Bosnia and Herzegovina and vice versa, how MPs from the Party for BiH raise their hands to SNSD ministers, although we all know well in this country what they both said to each other until about five or six months ago. It's probably a lot of people playing on a map to keep the people in their heads for a while. However, the SDP as the largest opposition party in this country, in this Parliament, is there and we will always warn of what they have promised citizens in this country. If we had a chance today to let go of what they said in the pre-election campaign today, persuading that ruling coalition would be a great tragedy for this country. Last time we had the opportunity to see how the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić, told the entire parlament, here, literally: "The main interest of the Council of Ministers of BiH is strong entity governments," I quote him. Now, this gentleman who spoke and fought for the strong Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would be very pleased to raise their hand for such a concept of the Council of Ministers. It is particularly incomprehensible why this Council of Ministers in Continuity continues with proven failed personnel solutions from the last call. Instead of correcting mistakes and this mandater reaffirms certain personnel solutions. And management says keeping an irresponsible person at work isn't kindness, it's cruelty. I think what you're doing today is cruel to this country, to the citizens. For example, the last term of civil affairs minister, with all due respect for the minister's personality, raises the question of what qualified him and why he deserved to be a candidate again in the new council of ministers' assembly. That it may not be a qualification for him to get the Law on Sports in this country, the Law on Medicinal Products, the Law on Cultural Heritage, the Law on Science, etc. None of those four years later, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina won none. I believe that this composition of the Council of Ministers does not promise to address the country's main problems. One million citizens of this country can't find an adequate job. 500 thousand citizens in this country are registered to seek employment, 250 thousand citizens are working, and not getting paid for the work. Currently, 353,000 citizens are less employed than it was in 1991. And we don't see a single project or employment action plan being offered anywhere, how to increase the employment rate, etc. 16 I must ask another question here as the man who comes from Tuzla. I am right to ask the entire ruling coalition and the mandater: why in this meeting have you completely marginalized both Tuzla and Tuzla Canton, so if you want the entire north-east Bosnia that counts close to one million inhabitants? I am particularly interested in why the gentlemen of the Party for BiH and the SDA have determined that there are no ministers from Tuzla and Tuzla Canton. They didn't have one in the last term either, and here's the same mistake again. Is that how you demonstrate your relationship with Tuzla Canton? I immediately ask you at the beginning do you still intend to neglect and marginalise this most human part of the BiH state? You haven't even treated yourself, I'm talking first of all to the people of the SDA and the Party for BiH, that no deputy ministers from Tuzla and Tuzlanskg canton should you suggest. Even, there was a BiH HDZ deputy to propose, but these gentlemen couldn't have any deputies. Whether it's political punishment for the University of Tuzla and Tuzla Canton, or whether someone thinks there are no qualified people from that part of the BiH state. I believe that the chairman of the Council of Ministers and this composition do not give optimism. Mr. Nikola Špirić has already shown as mandater, and it has not been a month, that he is not a man who will seem to keep his words and promises. He told us a month ago, in his opening exhibition, that BiH should be a country from which the good news will come and the first good news from BiH has not passed for a few days, the unremembered pressure on BH television and that is not good news from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Špirić, it is news that there is still totalitarianism in this country. Also in the exposé, before we were given this Decision today, we were promised to gather a team in the Council of Minstars that will be decorated with experience and youth. What experience does a doctor have in traffic? Or what kind of youth is that if the youngest minister is 51 years old? Is it good news that an entity president of the government a few days ago, I quote him, says "that Corridor Vc is going through the entity and that entity is going to build the Corridor and it has nothing to do with the state"? We here have to repeat that the state here is the oldest, it is internationally-legal recognition of the subject and is not a state in the entity, but an entity in the state. Since Mr Špirić and Dodik are in the same party, the truth is Špirić is in a larger and more significant position, how does the entity Prime Minister degrade the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, and I quote Mr Špirić at the last session of Parliament when he spoke, he said in an exposé: "All activities concerning the construction of Corridor Vc are a joint job of the Ministry of Communications and Transport and Entity". It's completely contrary to what we're talking about right now. Furthermore, Mr Špirić said in his exposé that Bosnia and Herzegovina needs economic reforms that will provide it with economic sovereignty and a unique economic space. I fully support him in this, but what he does and promises the prime minister at BiH level and what an entity prime minister does, these are diametrically different things. Finally, if we do not continue, it is more than obvious that we will have serious problems, and the reasons why SDP MPs will not vote in favour of this Council of Ministers, but will vote against, are not at all of a general nature but are very specific in nature. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8654	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Mr. Križanović. Have Mr. Bahtić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8655	I thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable members of the BiH Presidency, the respected members of the Council of Ministers, former and future, colleagues and colleagues, I think today's agenda should be one ceremony when the country, 130 days after the elections, should be given its government. However, in our custom, we have tried not to make this ceremony but, by old custom, we continue with our failures. I didn't want this... in the context of the adoption of the agenda, so I wouldn't spoil this atmosphere, but I have to, however, because of my science and future work, point to some problems. You see, we received a call seven days ago for today's session where it was proposed, and today we adopted such a 5-point agenda, and by this morning at 10 o'clock for that agenda we only got materials for one session, and that's the record from the previous constitutional session. I ask the question is it normal for this House, which is due to confirm the Council of Ministers' proposal, to receive this morning, literally at 10 o'clock a proposal, a final proposal from the Council of Ministers? Is that a secret to this House? Why couldn't we get a biography of proposed candidates for the Council of Ministers sooner? So we need to be like Dom, who needs to confirm something, to decide, to inform from the papers. Why isn't the Council of Ministers' proposal complete? After 130 days of elections, we will not have a complete Council of Ministers today. I will not complicate further, but in principle, I pointed out at the first session of the constitutional session, that the only thing we can do correctly, in the interest of BiH citizens, is to stick to the law and the Rules of Procedure. I have the impression that this assembly of Parliament will continue the practice of the previous that, in the interest of peace in the house, many things we put under the carpet and break the rules and laws that we ourselves make. Here, for this reason I will not speak specifically of any name, in principle I cannot accept that the conditions for such a ceremony to be appointed by the Council of Ministers are met today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8656	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Bahtić. Have Mr. Dolić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8657	Dear fellow Members of Parliament, I warmly welcome you all, 18 As an MP for the Party for BiH and a party that participates and makes up the parliamentary majority, normally I will support today's confirmation and appointment of the deputy chairman, minister and deputy ministers. At first I should say that I am happy that the Council of Ministers is being confirmed today and I understand these SDP complaints and this calling, this is Parliament, and then an MP, because they are not in power and I want to tell them that I have full confidence in the proposed candidates and in Dr Ljubić. You have an example in developed Western European countries, where democracy is at the highest level - Denmark and Sweden, where individual ministers, along with several mandates, are acting in different resolutions. For you, democracy is probably still far away. As for Minister Halilović, I reject all insinuations that he is unprofessional. Dr. Halilović is very honorable, it is the most important, and honest man, professional and valuable, moral as all extremities are, unlike your Zlatko Lagumdžija. Wait a minute, gentlemen dear, will you allow me, in accordance with Article 27, to work on normal terms? Dr. Lagumdžija throws it away like he's at a bus stop, like he's in a bar. This is not the SDP's main committee, this is Parliament. I am pleased that among the proposed candidates of the SDA, Mr. Senad Šepić, Deputy Civilian Affairs from Cazin, young, I am always for young people and I support. Unfortunately, the Electoral Commission made one decision, fixed yesterday, conflict of interest - the girl. And I want to underline this, too, and I'm a legalist and I respect the law. During the Alliance, Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija was also the foreign minister and chairman of the Council of Ministers. His wife worked with Post Office Bank and Telecom, half a million marks, has all the evidence. Then there was no conflict of interest, and everyone was silent. The law must be the same to all. To know that the Election Commission should have the same treatment for everyone. When it comes to this conference, I said, I believe, I want to say something, I mean, this is just like one message to the future, to take a little care of capital projects when it comes to the state around the Krajina and the Krajina, believe me, I'm always among ordinary people on the streets, by the cities of Bihaća, Sansko Most, Cazin, Kladude, colleges, everywhere the same questions: Sado, what is Krajina, the landscape is nowhere, they've all forgotten us all, we haven't earned us all, we've been written off, we're a appendix etc. For example, it is the formation of a Directorate for indirect taxation. There's no regional office in Bihac, and there's no customs outpost, there's no Bihac, there's no people with the right to defecate. So you make sure that Krajina still has its place in this country, because Krajina and the Krajina were always for the state through history and always will be. I specifically spoke last time, and now I say when it comes to travel communications that can't leave Krajina as a appendix, that the future minister of communication has an account, we need 5 hours from Bihac to Sarajevo, Zagreb 2 hours, Grac and Vienna are getting closer to us than Sarajevo, to do, if nothing else, at least a fast road through AVNOJ to the highway of the future. And to see why the railroad, why the train doesn't work. Bihać – Bosnian Novi to go left towards Sisak, Zagreb, right towards Sarajevo and the east. There's a lot of its reasons, we have there and resources, we have our own staff and water and forests, we have everything, but if we run out of good roads and railroads no one will invest there, no investment, no business, and no good life. That's why we want 19 to be an integral part and I support my colleague, selo Bešlagić. I'm in favour of all regions having the same treatment, and that's the only way we can make this country happy for everyone. Mr. Lagumdžija, you have no right to read moral lessons to everyone. I am responsible for saying that you are the most immoral person in BiH and the person with the most criminal legal acts. I've got 200 pages of evidence. Even the book they wrote about your criminal...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8658	I'm asking you to leave that kind of discussion for later.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8659	I have because Mr. Lagumdžija still serves KGB methods.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8660	Well, here's all we're trying to do is make this a solemn moment, and the people of the SDP, who immediately turned it into something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8661	At least they have no right to attack and criticize this power. We know what they were in the Alliance for Change. How many innocent people have been arrested, mounted charges, persecuted and that they're reading that lesson, I won't allow it. Finally, as an MP for the Party for BiH and as an economist, the suggestion of this Council of Ministers is to put economic reforms in the credibility of its work, because the economy can only bring us a brighter future, with the emphasis of discharging the economy, reducing taxes, introducing subsidies and reliefs and creating a self-sustainable economy that will allow BiH to become a normal European state with European laws and standards. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8662	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić. Mr. Lagumdžija, did you ask for a replica? No, no, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8663	So, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8664	You have all the time at your disposal, I'm just asking you what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8665	Mr. Belkić, I know you expected me to replicate on this,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8666	No, I didn't expect anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8667	So, I don't fall for the namamaet to replicate
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8668	Then sit down, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8669	I'm just, sir, a moment, Mr. Belkić. I just got back to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8670	You're taking time for others.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8671	I'm just saying, you know what this is about. So it's not a replica. I answered my word, and thank you for registering me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8672	You'll be included. It's Mr. Dolić's turn now. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8673	Thank you. I had no intention of replicating it, but since colleagues from the SDP have discussed Križanović, Bešlagić and I so far, I do not know why my colleague Bahtić even mentioned Dr Lagumdžija when the man has not yet answered his words. And on the agenda is not the decision to appoint a Council of Ministers in which the SDP participates but rather something else. We weren't trying to talk about insinuations. We were trying to talk about facts. And let someone in this House deny us when we specifically talked about the Ministry of Civil Affairs, why for the previous 4 years, let us be answered, the Law on Higher Education, the Law on Culture, the Law on Science, the Law on Sports, etc. They're not insinuations, they're facts. And let's get one more thing straight, considering we're at the beginning of this term. Since I see you're going according to a tried-out recipe, you're attacking the first SDP man, if you don't already respect the individual fact that Dr Lagumdžija is a member of the World Academy of Sciences and Arts, the president of one of the four largest political parties in this House, then the complete SDP Club is now ordering you the following. The next to talk about Dr Lagumdzija, the entire SDP club will talk about the president of his political party. So, to be exact, the next time someone talks about Lagumdzija, the SDP Club will talk about Haris Silajdžić. So if we're going to get somewhere with that kind of work, let's go. I don't think that's a method. Let's stick to the agenda, and if you think 21 is wrong with what we're talking about from the SDP, get up and take that argument down with a better argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8674	So, you've made another kind of contribution to this ceremony, obviously, and don't freak us out here, uh, there's no problem. I beg you, come on in, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8675	I have a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8676	Correction of an incorrect quote. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8677	A fellow predecessor, I don't know his name I apologize, Denis said he was talking about facts. The fact that Mr. Halilović, Sadović and Ljubić are not professional can be spoken of after a certain period. And it wasn't, not before their mandate was confirmed. So we need to let people go for at least 100 days if not more, so say, they're not in the past period, they should have done it and they didn't do it. So these are the facts. We can't say that someone isn't professional and that he hasn't even been appointed yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8678	Thank you very much. I'm really asking you, we're here to work until half past noon, obviously, uh, that we won't even get close by then, uh, when it comes to this point of the agenda. I ask you to stick to the agenda and refrain from going out, outside the context of the agenda. So let's move on. Mr. Dolić. Get Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8679	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, instead of the folk "who is waiting, this welcome", in BiH it is obviously worth "who is waiting for that". We, behold, waited almost 4.5 months after the election or almost 10% of the term of office, to form a parliamentary majority, to agree on the division of the chair and to offer us a barter list of candidates for ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers. How tragic it is and how harmful and expensive it is every day, after meeting the conditions for the European road to BiH, unfortunately, we will only have the opportunity to see. Compared to forming a government in Austria, it is a common hoax for BiH citizens and an alibi that will not drink much water in meeting the conditions for bringing BiH closer to the EU and NATO. If the parliamentary majority settles reforms as quickly as they agreed on chairs, then we will be watching Europe for a long time only on television. 22 Either way, we have had the opportunity to see in the past 4.5, almost 4.5, the month that in BiH there is not only a shortage of jobs, a lack of money and others, but also a chair is missing to reconcile the appetites of such a broad parliamentary majority. The parliamentary hearing of candidates, for the Council of Ministers, in my opinion, is a step forward towards the introduction of democratic and professional standards in the running and appointment of ministers and their deputies to the Council of Ministers. In addition to all the weaknesses and insufficient experience in verifying and hearing candidates by the parliamentary commission and giving answers to questions asked, with a tone recording of course, if nothing else in the proposings and candidates, it creates one dose of seriousness because tomorrow it is necessary to face the given answers, the given data and the other and the questions raised by the commission. Although, as a member of the Parliamentary Commission, I give a positive assessment to the parliamentary hearing and full transparency of candidate data, I have not profited too much from the parliamentary hearing of candidates in a qualitative sense. After this hearing of candidates, I personally think that among the candidates for ministers and deputies in the Council of Ministers, whose names are still in this confirmation decision, unfortunately, we have few experts and candidates with vision and more those with the willingness to implement political decisions and political tasks. Almost all the candidates, in my court, gave politically colored and politically conditioned answers to specific questions. If after this, as slowly as before, the parliamentary majority is following a political consensus, I fear that today we are confirming the Council of Ministers who will be the prisoner of their political parties. In the Parliamentary Commission for the Preparation of the Council of Ministers' Elections, I supported most of the candidates whose names are in front of this parliamentary assembly today, because I felt they had the necessary minimum references to perform the ministerial functions they were running for. Nevertheless, in a statement on the decision to confirm the appointment of the Council of Ministers, I will be restrained. So I will not support the decision to appoint this Council of Ministers for two reasons. First, because the vote in the package is, therefore, for all candidates among whom there are, therefore, those who, on the basis of professional and moral references, would get my trust, but among them there are those that I wouldn't even be drunk to support. Secondly, because I personally do not believe in the political concept and love on which this parliamentary majority rests. I'd be happy if you'd, uh, deny me with your work. Although the decision to appoint the Council of Ministers is incomplete, I must now express my dissatisfaction with the territorial representation of candidates in this Council of Ministers. Namely, among the candidates there are no candidates from the Krajina, and if there is one candidate in the game, Krajina will not benefit much from it. This is a common relationship with the Krajina that has no foothold, and I hope here they will not find its application that people's "far from the eyes, far from the heart". As with the appointment of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, I will say that the future Council of Ministers and ministers in their work for everything they do in the interest of the European road to BiH and in the interest of improving BiH citizens will have the support of the DNZ and me as MPs of this House. Of course, you will also have one rational critic of everything that is not on the 23rd course of the European road and the improvement of BiH and its citizens. From the future Council of Ministers, as an MP, I expect, above all, to respect this House and all MPs regardless of whether they come from a position or opposition and I expect cooperation in both directions because it will be necessary to overcome the obstacles and conditions more quickly to become a country in which they will live well. In that expectation, the Council of Ministers, which is certain to be elected today at the head of Mr Špirić, I want a lot of happiness in the work and a lot of wind in the back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8680	... Hadžiahmetović, get Bakir Izetbegović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8681	Dear members of the Bureau, members of the colleges, current ministers, deputies and, of course, ministers in the Council of Ministers' meeting, future ministers in the future meeting of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, please allow me to draw some attention from the current course of your discussion and to express regret that there is currently no proposal for a decision currently discussed in this room. I am deeply hoping that he will be invited to return to the O.R. soon, the more part of the discussion, the arguments I will present, are precisely the ones proposing today's Decision. First of all, we've all been given the Decision on the appointment with the signing of the chairman, Dr. Nikola Špirić. I must express my satisfaction, finally, knowing the specific weight of lateness in, I will not only talk about the reform flow but in general, in forming government at all levels in BiH and lack, a chronic lack, a time that BiH does not have. Furthermore, we know and know, and we heard just before from the chairman-in-Office of the Commission for the preparation of the appointment of the Council of Ministers who met briefly and with the procedures, and I will particularly apostrophe that this is the first time that domestic institutions have been involved in the appointment procedure, and in that sense, I express my satisfaction and, of course, compliments to all those involved in this procedure and have finally contributed to this act and come to it. We have also heard that the Central Election Commission, also in its position of activity, was involved in this process and, here, today this Parliament is to approve the appointment. I want to draw everyone's attention to one absurd situation that we've all faced. First, a rude violation of the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, I will specifically mention here a member of the 15th Law, which, to remind you, has adopted this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So we're going to be in a position to break the law that we've brought ourselves. And second, of course, emergency confirmations of the appointment of the Council of Ministers. And in that sense, I have apostrophed a few questions, with one note that I am, as one of the six MPs of 42 in this House's assembly, and I am asking you all to ask why the situation is the way it is. Have you, fellow MPs, voted for most of the women, why does the largest club in this House not have any women in their assembly? And here are a few questions. What if this decision did not respect, for example, the provisions of another law, e.g. The Council of Ministers Act, i.e. to ask the question, does 24 mean that this Parliamentary Assembly does not attach equal importance, i.e. that there is no equality between the legality of the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly, which results in some laws being implemented and some do not have to implement or do not have to implement. Isn't this the kind of hypocrisy of the policy we're facing? Are we going to be honest and get the strength to put the Gender Equality Act out of place, so we don't put ourselves in a position to break the laws we've passed? Will we, consistent with the conduct and relation of these issues, change the Rules of Procedure on the work of this Parliament and abolish the Commission for Gender Equality? Will we recognize our relationship to the obligations we have made by signing and joining international conventions and international initiatives, or some laws serve as a form only to show to the International Community our willingness to respect and follow the obligations that arise from this, etc. I must say that I speak for myself, not to speak on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, as such I will, aware of the very specific weight of the moment and the need to support the Council of Ministers as soon as possible, the Council of Ministers' Decision. I know this is an important moment for BiH and I belong to those who know a little better exactly the specific weight of urgency and the need for speed in forming executive authorities. However, I will ask you all, and especially my colleagues Špirić as mandate, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the College of this Parliament a few questions. Comrade Špirić, what will you do to compensate for the enormous injustice that you have done to yours, I must say, against the anti-judgment, against the law of Article 15? The law on gender equality on the appointment of the Council of Ministers did? In that sense, I must tell you that these days I have been subject to warnings, filtering various e-mails, correspondence that I have had with more than 200 NGOs who gather over 2,000 activists who deal with these issues in BiH, and in that sense, I must mention and draw attention, of course, with most of the remarks that are being seen here in this transcription I agree with, with some, of course, I can have a different view, or a different opinion, but I will only mention that we are reaching the ground, or we are giving someone a cause for a lawsuit against the state of BiH. I ask you to seriously ask yourself about the issue of violations of the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. In that sense, therefore, the question of fellow Špirić: how will he compensate for this injustice he has done this Decision? I know that fellow Špirić received party proposals on the basis of which he implemented this Decision, i.e., prepared today's Decision but I also know, from this correspondence, that all these associations have sent letters to all party presidents, in due course, respecting the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality. And another question to the College, which is all of us here. Will you initiate appropriate procedures to ensure the equality of all applicable laws that this Parliamentary Assembly has passed or we will consider some laws to be important and some less important, i.e. whether we have a legal foothold in order to differentiate the law in this way. And of course, in that sense, I am initiating the chairman of the Council of Ministers, his fellow ministers, my colleagues in the leadership of this Parliament to urgently try to answer these questions. 25 And finally, let's move here. Six MPs from 42 members of Parliament. I know this is the result of the election, but I also know that the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, I remind again, adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly, were to be translated, based on them to adapt other laws and adopt appropriate sublegal acts. In that sense, I initiate both my colleagues Špirić and all of us here so that we will no longer be in a position to break the laws we have passed, not to put ourselves in a position of inequality or an unfair relationship to the legality of the law, to answer these questions urgently. I just want you, in that sense, to suggest that an alternative to this, that we work properly as a Parliament that has committed to respecting the Constitution and the laws of this country, that the alternative is to abolish the law, that is, to put aside the law, I am talking here about the absurdity of a situation, to abolish the Commission on Gender Equality, and I am asking you all whether we have the strength, or the courage to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8682	Thank you. Mr. Izetbegović, let Mr. Novaković prepare himself. Here I think here's the other two debaters, is it possible this one, I'm asking you as soon as possible, so we're taking a break. There are seven, eight debaters reported behind the break. Of course, I'm opening up the possibility of you signing in, so we'll write down, uh, it's not a problem. You've even been written down twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8683	So, selamm, good morning to all present. I welcome the proposal for a decision to appoint the deputy chairman and minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. The SDA will support, therefore, the proposal of the chairman, Mr Špirić. Also, I welcome something that, uh, today has not been welcomed by some colleagues here in this House, which is that the representatives of two of the very strong parties in this House, so SNSD and SBiH, their representatives have raised their hands for each other, so I think thank Bog that the time has passed when we have raised hands on each other, that the time has come to raise our hands for each other. And without the co-operation of the two very strong parties, which represent a large number of BiH citizens, it is difficult for us to quickly cross the road that awaits us. Thank Bog we've come to the conclusion that the same desires of strong parties in this country are 90% of what citizens in this country want, which is, I say, an accelerated path to reform, security, the fight against corruption, employment, economic One for the other and for the good laws on that road. [[short-circuited connection-off microphone]] The biographies of future ministers and deputies speak of what these people have done before, and they are correct and very convincing and for most of these people, and I am convinced that they will be able, uh, to perform the tasks we appoint them for. It would be more and more complete and better, normally if we found out, uh, from these papers, not only what these people were doing, but what they intend to do, their concept, their seeing problems in the field of work they'll be dealing with in their resources. I therefore propose, in order to achieve better co-operation between this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, because we share the mandate and share responsibility for what is going to happen in this country for the next 4 years, in the next fateful 4 years, so that a programme of the work of the Council of Ministers, preferably at the next session of this House, will be presented to this House and adopted by this House in the next month. Then we would adopt this work programme, therefore, a report on the implementation of this work programme at the end of each year. There, so much for now on behalf of the SDA.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8684	I thank Mr. Izetbegović, I would ask Mr. Novaković to have an understanding. We still need a break now, uh, make, have religious needs etc. So that you may be, of course, the first debater. Here's to inform you, we have nine more reported. Mr Lagumdžija, therefore, Novaković, Mitrović, Raguž, Krišto, Kadrić, Halilović, Lagumdžija, Kalabić. And you're applying, and here I'm told that you've been replaced, but it doesn't matter. Here, so, break up to 1 o'clock, break up to 1 o'clock. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] Members of the Parliament, as you know, we took a break during the discussion on item 3 of the agenda and proceed to where we left off. With a little note, please return the cards, who pulled the cards, to return the cards to their place, and when it comes to applying for a discussion, it is enough once to press the button for discussion, because when you press again, you virtually eliminate the login. Please. So we continue the discussion. According to reports, it's Mr. Novaković's turn. Have Mr. Mitrović prepare himself. Please, I read it to you and it stays the way I read it. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow MPs, distinguished guests, formerly convened by the Council of Ministers and, of course, members of the future Council of Ministers, listening to some discussions before me, I must say that it seems to me that a strange time has come in this BiH, that simply the opposition should not be an opposition because the position is angry, if there is an opposition, so the position, I suppose, in order to discipline the media, has come into the situation that it is necessary to discipline and the MPs from the opposition and that we are now, here today, and few of us in this opposition, in this session, should, in fact, praise the candidates and not in any way criticise something that is bad. Perhaps we could do so if the parties making up the congregation’s majority did so themselves or do so themselves today. But here's an example of Mr. Zorić showing, and his discussion shows that it was not within this position. And then how do you expect it to be between the position and the opposition? I'm talking about because I don't want this discussion, which I'm going to cut short because there's a lot of debates and because it probably won't have any influence and I'm sure, in fact, that it won't have an impact on the vote, it's not going to produce 27 people from a position of need to replicate, so that maybe we're going in some other direction. First, I must express my satisfaction that the parties making up the congregation majority have agreed their programming views. Namely, Republika Srpska President, Mr Jelić said a few days ago that there was no longer any danger and intention to abolish Republika Srpska, or entity, that, in that sense, there was no intention, means to organise a referendum. In other words, I would like to express my satisfaction that the Party for BiH has, therefore, definitely accepted that entities are not the problem of BiH and that BiH's entity development is, in fact, the future of BiH. And it would be good if it were. What does this Council of Ministers show? This choice or this proposal by the Council of Ministers, in fact, shows two types of mutual mistrust. Distrust within the parties proposed by candidates and mistrust between the parties proposed by the candidates. And that's why it could happen that we have candidates in certain positions, of course, for which we don't have the fact that they won't work very well, I'd like them to do their part of the job in quality, but, well, it doesn't say in their biographies what we need to see. So that doesn't say there. Namely, it doesn't say they've been doing these jobs. But here, I'm saying, it's not a guarantee that they won't do their job well but it is a guarantee that there was no mutual trust. And that is why we still don't have the choice of the entire Council of Ministers, and that is why today we choose only two ministers and one deputy minister from the order of the Serb people at this session. Of course, in opposition, there is no point in getting in really much in relations within the position and there is no point in getting in a lot with this Council of Ministers because it is not our problem. In fact, it's the problem of those who make it up. But I can't help saying it's a good thing this Council of Ministers is called the Council of Ministers. In fact, here the future defence minister will be able to advise the generals, and if I cannot get the consent to be generals, how to be ministers. Since he couldn't get consent to the general rank, in this army, and he got consent to the post of minister. And that's good. It is good that the future minister of security will probably be able to help the minister of traffic more, given his interest than his ministry. But that's why it's the Council of Ministers because they're going to advise each other to get us, so what we want in principle by this choice. And of course, we also have ministers here, we also have ministers who are experts in certain areas, and it would have been good if we had chosen individually, if we could separate them from this mass and vote for them whether we were a position or an opposition. Then we would recognize, in fact, ministers who are experts in one area from ministers who are experts in several areas, from those who, therefore, can be ministers from different areas in different governments. I don't know if it's possible to ask Secretary Dom if it's possible to vote individually on ministers. In fact, if it is not possible, and there is a possibility, then I suggest that the House declares itself that the candidates for ministers are being voted individually. So I'm going to deliver this conclusion in writing, so let's finally state that the candidates for ministers are being voted individually. 28 I hope that this Council of Ministers will succeed in keeping all MPs in their position today. I want it from their heart, although in many of them I see the opposition at the next session. At least according to what I could hear here today from the discussion. I'd like this Council of Ministers to do everything everyone expects him to do in this country. Really, no matter what I'm an opposition, I'd be happy to do what we want to do here today. I'm not convinced that we have enough will for that, nor that we have enough space, given everything that's been said today, and all that seems to me when I look at this call. And finally, dear gentlemen, we will not, of course, support this council of minstars. We'll act to point to his mistakes in the future. I hope so, and I want this Council of Ministers, at least all the candidates, to read the exposés of the chairman. I wish they'd done it before they accepted this function, because I'm convinced, and that's what I said last time, I'm convinced that a lot of people think differently than the chairman in his exposé wrote. The chairman, of course, I want him to insist on his exposé. And if he does, he'll have our support in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8687	Thank you, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8688	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8689	Wait a minute. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8690	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to replicate Mr. Novaković and take the opportunity to take advantage of Mr. Bećirević. Today we are discussing candidates for a new composition of the Council of Ministers. I'm really warning you not to mention people here, leading SNSD officials, and you're bringing irony into some context that has to do with today's session. So, if it's an illusion to Mr. Jelić about what he said somewhere, he's not a member of this parliament and then say it elsewhere. Mr. Bećirević said well today, if they mention it, whether in a positive, negative context of his party's president, that they will all attack another president. Here we have been restrained. We didn't mention Mr. Lagumdžija in a positive way, and we're not going to be in a negative context. But why are you taking the opportunity here today to mention the president of the largest political party in BiH, Mr. Dodik, and to bring him back into co-ordination with Mr. Špirić? If that is why they are the leading figures of the largest political party, then the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, and especially if the reason they belong to the Serbian people, then I am proud. But please, don't mention people who don't sit here first. The second thing, when you mention President 29 Dodik, if you want him to help you solve problems in the Federation, I think the man is in the mood to help you. And then don't put RS, especially representatives of the Serb people, in such a context as to be constantly a remethyling factor. Here, on the contrary, we didn't. So it can be concluded here that you're not against the world of minstar and personal composition today. You're here today against BiH. Why would you want us to stall this story for the next few months, to keep the authorities functional? Say it clearly here, pull everything under the carpet, petal, where you keep it, say what you want. What's your goal here? And next thing I know, I don't know what time you're talking about the coalition story. Gentlemen, that's what we told you and we'll do it again today. There is no coalition here in seven of these parties that formed the parliamentary majority. And it is a parliamentary majority, and don't serve it to the public, so the people get the wrong impression, as if the two strongest opposing parties in the pre-election campaign, the Party for BiH, of course, and the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats, are now in some coalition. That's not true. So, please, you have facts, arguments and go public here and say what you want. I beg you, we will not mention in any context your president, but where do you get the right to mention our president if he is not a member of Parliament? Yours is here, sitting here. Other party presidents are members of this parliament, their MPs, their ministers will be ministers. You're gone, and then it's all your fault. Tell me what you have against Mr. Dodik. But with facts. And tell me where you can go, not in Paralament here where he's not a member. That's why there are representatives of the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats who will never allow you that story. And if your goal is to bring a mess into Parliament, here we are not going to get any support. The Alliance of Independent Social Democrats is a party that wants this government to function because the people are destined for everything and everything. We want BiH's progress but their personal composition will not solve progress if we in this parliament...ambience for these people who will work. And you're on your way. Everything's wrong with you. Let's see what happens. You have time, four years. You've had it before, I don't know how many years. So please don't mention these people. They have nothing to do with this. And if you mind, Mr. Špirić, I'll tell you even Mrs. Hadžiahmetović told you about
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8691	Time for the replicator, Mr. Jovičić, is three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8692	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We respected that, too. We have two ministers, we have one lady on the Council of Ministers. So it's 2-1 again. Ask other parties what they don't have. So we're not on a... factor and stop with that story.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8693	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, a business intervention, before you, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8694	Well, here's the need to just mention that the BiH Party is not even in a joke what Mr. Novaković funnyly mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8695	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8696	Yeah, yeah, replica. I must say that whenever there are no arguments in this country, some hide behind the people. Here again someone wants to hide behind the entire Serbian people. As for me personally at the club where I work, we have representatives of both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak at the SDP Club. And I have not mentioned Mr Špirić and Dodik in any context except one, thinking that this country needs some coordination and agreement between the state authorities and entity authorities. It is simply incomprehensible, and logically especially, as it is possible for the state prime minister to say a month ago that Corridor Vc will be a joint job of the Ministry of Communications and Transport at the level of BiH and entity, and the entity prime minister says the state has nothing to do with it and that it will build an entity. I was just talking about it thinking and pointing to the need to have more coordination and to really be a state project, and not to give us, and quite by chance, whether people from the same party are saying one thing here and the other in Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8697	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to really refrain from unnecessary replicas and waste of time. Let's get back to the subject and get this job done. So, Mr. Mitrović, let Mr. Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8698	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here today as MP of the Democratic People's Union, I need to decide, yes, or against the composition of the Council of Ministers and what I wanted to ask on the committee, when it comes to determining the commission on the basis of recommendations for running for ministers and deputies, primarily the chairman of Mr Špirić, is this composition and these institutions in line with the BiH Constitution? Because someone said before me that this Parliament, even all parliaments, should behave in the spirit of the greatest act in the state, and that is the Constitution. 31 If it is not in accordance with which documents it is and whether it is somewhere in our environment or in the world at all, that lower acts be binding and the greatest act is not. It is an interesting thing that the international factor is watching us break the Constitution, both at the entity and at the state level, not trying to get us in line, to bring this larger act into Parliament, whatever it is and simply to go through the creation of a safe country that is called BiH and to find some solution that will be satisfactory for all three peoples in it. So that's one question. Second of all, what are the criteria other than the political criteria, when it comes to proposing candidates for ministers and deputy ministers? I had a chance to see, normally in negotiations that I absolutely don't mind. Normally, political parties should negotiate and form a majority in Parliament because without it normally, they would not even come to a solution called forming a BiH-level Council of Ministers and what is slightly uninteresting to me, but in some ways I would say worryingly, especially when we are working outside the Constitution is that colleagues and who come from the RS and the parties that are coming, I would say, with a central from the RS in talks and negotiations, let three ministerial places which, in my opinion, are still important and crucial, until the BiH Constitution changes where these positions should not happen from one nation to take up those positions already, by me, should be divided on the basis of the key, I would say the national key. And this applies to the Ministry of Defence, which refers to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security. I know the answer. I know the answer that it will be that this is the reason, because in the previous meeting these three positions were faces from one nation, i.e. Serbian people. But, gentlemen, I also know the answer to why the representatives of the Serb people found themselves in those positions. I think it's simple, just to satisfy the public, that, well, we have a representative, we have a minister for those positions because they've been transferred in a slightly unusual way, by agreement, etc. I think we should have taken care of, especially when we're dealing with a series of problems that normally we don't mind, but that in one legal way these issues are resolved within the frameworks of the law and respect for the law. In my opinion, there were no criteria other than to form as soon as possible the Council of Ministers, which I really have nothing against. I think this country deserves to have any advice or government than none. What I could see, and what could be worrying about me and creating a single dose of uncertainty, here's when we take the Department of Defense. We had a man in that position who met the criteria, according to me, of all the peoples, who wasn't burdened with something where most of the people who lived since '92. So let me say, here's the wartime, they're loaded, they didn't want to admit it. We are going back and we have a series of candidates that we are proposing with this kind of burden which, in my opinion, does not leave the confidence that in this time that is very short, the reform process, we will be able to come to a compromise, a reformed constitution, police reform, so here at the end and the defence itself, that 32 will not satisfy, in my opinion, the criteria and wishes of all the peoples or representatives representing the people here. For this reason, for principle reasons and as a member of this commission, I was against, at the state level, those high functions at the moment of reform, to find those persons, although I have nothing against individuals as faces. But I think that period and how burdensome it is for those people who were in those high places at that time where I don't think they'll be able to get rid of all that. I'm glad these 6-7 political parties signed the agreement. I heard that. I didn't see it. I heard on this committee itself, one of the candidates for ministers, put out and only showed that there is such a document, a document that covers everything that is of interest to the people, which is the reform of the Constitution, police reform, permanent, means about the return of people to their hearths, and I would really like to see it work as soon as possible. And it is time for the simple people and the public to be directly familiar with it and to move in that direction as soon as possible. My opinion is that this Council of Ministers should not allow us to reform some areas without reforming the Constitution, because it will not lead us anywhere. It'll only lead us to one condition where anything is possible. Better any constitution than any other one, than the transfer or functioning of that executive authority with some agreements that are simply lower than the largest act called the Constitution. I expect that this ministerial council will primarily enter this process and that the international community will definitely be in a position to create a stable space, a stable country and be simply real to create a climate, indeed, the possibility of survival in this space, not the possibility of anything and anything that can happen. And to simply force everyone to compromise and the Constitution to be the first document in all of this. If it were to be possible to vote individually, most of the ministers, in my opinion, on the Commission itself, on an interview, meet the criteria and could respond to the task, and perhaps especially if we were to get rid of the policies, the political parties that are proposing them, except, I would say, people with some burdens that, in my opinion, exactly where they should go one step further, take us back to that field. But here, when I add it all up and subtract it, based on which I have to decide, is whether this country needs any ministerial advice or not. I think, realistically, as a man and as an MP here, I think this country needs any, and we'll see what it looks like in the next period. I would like the will of the people, as it has been expressed and as this parliamentary majority has been formed, to be confirmed that it will be in the interest of that people. If it doesn't, you know how the people punish it. So, personally, as an MP, if I decide whether I should, I think I need this ministerial advice, and that's something that, in my opinion, they'll decide, and other factors and criteria aren't by me the factors that would affect me and that would affect me, that I would decide to do something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8699	Thank you, Mr. Mitrović, Mr. Raguž. Let Mrs. Krišto prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8700	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, respected MPs, members of the Council of Ministers in the past, and hopefully a new composition from today. Here I would like to welcome you all sincerely and, on behalf of the HDZ in 1990, to say a few words about the way this proposal came about Mr Špirić, the elements that are open today in the debate and what are expected and to determine myself immediately. I believe and believe that BiH will have a new Council of Ministers as of today, that it deserves it and that there is no more room or elements to extend the decision on the confirmation of this Council of Ministers' composition. But that doesn't mean that, within making this decision of this House, there are some things that are troubled, and some that are not, they don't need because of this country's interest and also because of the Bosnian-Herzegovic public. The first thing that is open here is whether someone or in any way prevents the opposition from speaking its opinion which is legitimately right, of course both in the Rules of Procedure and in political practice in modern democratic countries. I think they have this possibility and that no one is denying it and I don't see it done by the College. But that possibility also requires responsibility. Well, you see, here was one frontal blow by three SDP deputies on Dr. Bog Ljubić for Minister of Transport and Communications at the Council of Ministers and this right to open everyone's nomination is absolutely undeniable and I respect him. And we, as a party, respect him, but also in that opening, no reference was taken by Prof. Dr. Božo Ljubić has what you all have ahead of him and I will not say that his curriculum vitae is superior, moral, political, professional, intellectual, international and each other as well as the results he has achieved everywhere he worked, from the head of the Sarajevo clinic at wartime, to the founder of one of the universities, to the consultants and experts of the World Bank, to a member of the Committee for Europe of the World Health Organization, to a lecturer at international universities from America to Japan. And if these aren't references worthy of respect, I don't know what those references are. And we need to get away from that simple stereotype to go to school, to be ministers in some area. I guess these are references that guarantee that through all these activities of professional, professional and international glass one huge experience that needs to be put into office in this country. And as for the expert section, the ministry has both assistants and advisors and teams and all of this can be organised and none of this is a problem. So, so much for that. And secondly, we are as the only, objectively the only new political party within this parliamentary majority, which is the result of the post... you know for what short time and perhaps unprecedented in recent history, we have assumed political responsibility by placing the first party in this Council of Ministers and we are prepared to assume that responsibility for the quality of the work of this ministry, before the public, in front of this parlament, is that not fair? And in advance to say that it's not enough I think that's really not where the argument stands. That's what this part is... and we accept, therefore, the argument argued, in no word dispute the right of colleagues from the SDP, nor will we, that's their and legitimate right, but to open up a reasoned debate. Another thing that is very important, and here it opens up questions from the Constitution, programming goals, illusions. We have a clear point in this agreement that applies explicitly, says the 34 parliamentary majority will adopt constitutional changes that will ensure a democratic and functional European BiH based on European standards. I think it is a framework that will lead this parliamentary majority and I am firmly convinced that we will go that way. This will also require a compromise and dialogue and seriousness in accession. I'm sure we'll go that way. And the third thing I have to say here, because both in the public and in Parliament, it has opened up and problemed the question of the appointment of deputy members of the Croatian people in the Council of Ministers. And I mean it for the public, because of this House and the Council of Ministers themselves, and because of the chairman I personally, not only personally, but also his exposés, I also contributed to that agreement on the establishment of the parliamentary majority and the content of the exposé. I think that the way he approached the appointment of deputy ministers in the order of the Croatian people has entered into a situation he did not need as chairman and that can in the beginning relativize some things because he has appointed three candidates from the HDZ order of BiH, and only one from HDZ 1990, which is neither in the spirit of agreement nor in the spirit of election results, without political agreement and without consultation with us. We have shown flexibility in the establishment of the parliamentary majority but I hope that this flexibility Mr Špirić will not long consider our weakness, I expected to treat it as our quality. And at this point, without prejudice to the appointment of the Council, not the whole effort that the Commission has made and all the institutions involved in this chain that we have today, however, one civilized and reasoned part that will contribute to the appointment of this Council of Ministers, I do not think there has been any element for any such decision, especially for arbitration in one complex political situation. And giving, therefore, the green light on behalf of this party and the coalition, for all of these reasons I was talking about the appointment of the Council of Ministers, can only say that we hope this was an incident, not a practice of relations with a political option that acts publicly and transparently. If it were a practice, make sure that no ministerial chair will keep us long if, uh, in this parliamentary majority, this relationship continues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8701	Thank you, Mr. Raguž, Mr. Križanović has applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8702	I thank Mr. Chairman, I am the fifth year in this House and have only replicated three times so far. I'm not gonna do it this time. I'm gonna make one mistake. Comrade Raguž, I am one of the three SDP clubs that has so far discussed, and that wasn't so long ago, you can remember that I didn't mention any name. Therefore, you are in favour of creating..., therefore, I ask you to be much more specific when you talk about the performance of members of the SDP Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8703	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mrs. Krišto, let Mr. Kadrić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8704	Dear Chairmans and deputies, respected members of the Bureau and the Council of Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests and media representatives, I welcome you all. I would say at the outset that, respecting BiH institutions and respecting them and esteeming them and keeping this House up, I would say at this point that this is indeed a solemn moment for me, and I, in the context of it, will also act and focus my discussions in this direction. In some ways, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would like to say that by considering this decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, by listening to the careful report of the committee that prepared the election for this Decision, and also in the context of the discussions that took place today, we could say and conclude that all the legal assumptions for the appointment of the Council of Ministers have been met. In addition, in some ways and in the discussions and my view is that, in addition to the legal conditions and assumptions for the functioning of such an important institution of the executive authority, this one needs to foresee, namely that candidates meet and that they have certain other assumptions and conditions such as expertise, or competence as some also call certain conditions, etc., and other criteria that we need to take into account. Without wanting to repeat myself with an esteemed colleague about gender representation, I would not want to do it again, but I stay at the discussion when she put it out there, maybe this is understood by us as women, but I also point out that this is just a way to criticise the representatives, or the presidents of political parties when they run. We may at this point have little to do. On behalf of the HDZ, BiH can say this, and we have confirmed in some way that we are not running women in the way of legal obligations and representation, but indeed the Party takes care because it believes that women are also valuable, industrious and responsible and that they can respond to all the tasks set out before them and also in politics. In that sense, I will also say on behalf of the Club that, when it comes to these criteria, I do not agree with certain proposals of the candidates in terms of this expertise, but again, by respecting all of this, I would say that I am in line with those who might value competence and expertise during or during work. I hope that all of us in this House will have the opportunity to see how the members of the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers, will be appointed as the executive power outside this House, and we will have the opportunity to comment on that expertise. In that sense, I do not view this decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers in isolation from the very signature or chairman of the Council of Ministers whose exposés we have heard, largely, and in which he has shown that in conditions and in this climate he can and wants to lead BiH for the next 4 years and that he wants to ensure in BiH that it is better and richer, etc. for all its constituents, it means for all three constituent nations living in BiH and for all BiH citizens. In that sense, I would like to say that the proposed candidates who are in this Decision today are ahead of us, that they can assume key functions in this country of BiH, and that the HDZ BiH Club will support the proposed decision and the proposed candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8705	Thank you, Mrs. Krišto. Mr. Remzija Kadrić, let Mr. Sefer Halilović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8706	Mr. Chairman, I thank you. I just want to say two three things to this occasion since this discussion has gone pretty far. I would like to say, to respond or to help two colleagues from the SDP that those certain reserves they had, to remove those reserves from my discussion so that they too vote for candidates to whom they have shown their reserves, which is Mr. Safet Halilović and Tarik Sadović's candidacy. Given that they will do jobs that are in a particular relationship and I want to point out here that it is good, given their moral qualities of both these candidates, that it is good for the citizens of BiH to do these jobs, precisely Safet Halilović to be Minister of Human Rights, and Tarik Sadović, Minister of Security, because I am sure that these two people will not allow themselves, regardless of the price, to keep these people, citizens of BiH on the streets, in their villages and in their apartments, and to deport them or deliver them, for example. in Guantanamo. These people will not allow themselves, so vote for these people because these people are moral and honest and it's good for the citizens of BiH. And secondly, what I would like to mention, which would be very important, is the question of all the questions that should be done by the future Council of Ministers, which is, we should do something urgently both by the Council and this Parliament and the OHR, which is that it is urgent to respond to decisions, to stop, therefore, to prevent, under emergency, the abduction of private property of people, especially the kidnapping of private property of returnees. Yesterday I was in Gorazd, in Kopača, in eastern Gorazd, there people live in fear, every day they expect the representatives of the local authorities to come to them and take their land as the only sources of income. So today, these people, tomorrow, are going to be in a situation where this country is being kidnapped and, therefore, this Council of Ministers, this Parliament, the OHR on this plan, need something urgent to do, that is the most important issue. And the following, at the end of what I want to say, is that, earlier, the Council of Ministers, headed by Adnan Terzić, did what they could do. They would have done, therefore, and no longer had there been obstructions, therefore, it should not have been forgotten. Adnan Terzić and his cabinet have done a lot of good things for BiH. Pama, this Council of Ministers led by Špirić should continue the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8707	Thank you, Mr. Kadrić. Mr. Sefer Halilović, let Mr. Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8708	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as possible, and let me say as much as possible to open the door for some future discussions at the next Parliament sessions and this more that I would just like to indicate which direction we are thinking as a party, and I, as an MP, go here. 37 We think that this existing coalition now, to tell you the truth, is not clear to me whether this is a coalition or a partnership relationship, because from the means of public information I understand that you have made a coalition. If it is a coalition or a partnership relationship, then it is my opinion that it is a very unprincipled coalition that will not be able to reach either Bosnian, not European, Bosnian-Herzegovina, not European standards and that BiH citizens cannot expect anything in the next 4 years because it will only continue the period of agony and survival, that the number of those who are unemployed will increase and that the situation in BiH will be worse, and that is why several, uh, arguments. I think there are two policies on the scene. One public policy that we can see in the media and that we can see in the means of information or in the statements of party leaders or members of these parties that form this non-creep coalition, and from what they publicly say. A lot of material would be found there, a lot of effort to make it better in BiH. But on the other hand, when Bosnia and Herzegovina is passed, when the results are seen on the ground, then there is one depressing situation, and, as much as I want to see it or not, BiH is divided, well divided, into three parts. And these pledges for the so-called third entity are nothing more than just a score of cheap political points. That third entity is almost impeccable. To talk about two policies, I will only remind you that in the talks, especially parties called the Federation's parties, the dominant topics were overall and democratic BiH, Bosnia without entities, 100% Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. In order to hear after the elections that the entities are no longer intruding, it is said that it is no longer 100% Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is not even Bosnia without entities anymore, that it is not even fully democratic anymore. In practice, it seems very, very painful, very ugly and very difficult. Another reason why I want to make it clear that we are not going to vote for such a coalition and for a government like this is, and I only want here before I continue to say one brief note. What I'm talking about is the SNSD party, because by yesterday, there was an opposition party with us, and we're going to wait these first 100 days to see which way it's going to go. Whether it will take the direction of building, building BiH or take the direction of protecting the characters and preserving the works of Radovan Karadžić. I hope that it will go this way to build BiH and that we will not have the opportunity to criticise it at least. Another reason why we will not vote for such a coalition is because the parties that are forming this coalition or this partnership relationship, and in the Federation Parliament, it seems to me, have passed a shameful law that has amnested all the crime that took place during the war and after. In this way, tens of billions of marks have ended up in private pockets and private accounts, and it is in vain now to advocate the adoption of law on illegal, the adoption of law on the confiscation of illegally acquired property because, assuming that this parliament adopts such a law, its effects will be minimal because most of these funds are already in foreign accounts. And we've seen the way that the candidate for ministers and deputies is now being checked, and only the part they write is actually being checked, and assuming they have 5 accounts, they write in their form that they have one, the SIPA will only check that one, and the other four won't touch. 38 What happened after that, after one of these laws was passed. In addition to what I have already said, the effects on the ground are catastrophic, because in the territory that was once covered by the Croatian community Herceg-Bosnia, there was almost no privatisation in that area, but with the best facilities, they were not in debt, the party's most similar people. I wish I wasn't wrong but walking and looking at BiH, and reading different kinds of material, I came to that conclusion. I ask the question where is Soko Bridge“ which had 26 factories in its composition and employed over 30,000 workers? Did the Soko Bridge Bridge fly away, is that the factory now operating in Zagreb under Soko Z1? Open up on the Internet and see what production capacities are and you'll see what the production capacity of that plant is and compare it with those of one of the 26 that were in Mostar. A similar situation is the whole area of Capljina, Stoca, Mostar, Window, Duvna, Livna, etc. And there are no Bošnjak there, not to speak of Srbin who are wiped out as people from the Neretva Valley. There is no Bošnjak who works in public administration, and here in Parliament we will play to protect Bosniak, or Croatian, or Serbian national interests and we will talk about how we fight for the rights of both workers, farmers and others. We asked some of the candidates what they thought about this and, of course, they didn't, we got very mixed answers. To make things worse isn't even better in Sarajevo. Of the public enterprises in Sarajevo, in the Sarajevo Canton, only one Srbin who is the director of the City Hospital and the House of Health of Sarajevo remained in Sarajevo's region, and these days the replacement of the last Hrvat, Josip Krasni, who was the director of the Veterinary Station is under way. My question to coalition partners is, did you agree that everyone in their space is privatizing on the principles of how they privatization? Did you arrange national exclusive spaces and not want to interfere with each other in the business or are you really fighting for Bosnia and Herzegovina? It's the same situation when you look at Republika Srpska's space. It was in Parliament that the Federation passed laws that devastated the Republic of Serbia and completed what is pragative.(?) ethnic cleansing. Election law, Law on rights of defenders, Law on persons with disabilities, social benefits, etc. All those returnees who decide to return to Republika Srpska's territory automatically lose all those rights in the Federation's space. Don't just talk about fighting honestly for a full and democratic BiH, and you're making laws that make it impossible for you to return, and we're talking to, or these days, at a conversation with the minister, the future minister pointed to these problems that he's agreed to, because he knows about these problems, and you all know about these problems here. That this makes it impossible to return to the territory of Republika Srpska, the same laws seem to me from the territory of Republika Srpska that are talking about returning to the Federation. 39 Privatisation in this section, which is conditionally called what was under the control of the Army of the Republic of BiH, takes place in the same way as it took place in the territory called the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia. The entire East Mostar was privatized by a small group of party-elected people. As privatisation took place and a very narrow group of party people in the territory of Tuzla Canton and I am surprised that the delegates from Tuzla, or MPs from Tuzla, did not talk about it. The same way was sold by Zenica Ironworks, the same way privatisation was done in the Sarajevo Canton and so on. Now look at Agro-Agrokomerc, I'll tell you that Agro-Agrokomerc in the war, uh, destroyed 5%, and in peace, from the end of the war to today, robbed 90%. And let's not just talk about how we want BiH's improvement and progress, and in practice we behave like this. I don't, of course, ask the question of expertise and I don't think it's a problem which is, which is, of course, an architect of the Minister of Security and is an orthopedic minister of health and communication. I am more concerned about what the political parties who put them in this position will do to them, who will direct them to do and, God forbid I am wrong, but I think they will continue on the path as they have so far, which means the path of hopelessness, imperceptibility and BiH's collapse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8709	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. Mr. Lagumdžija, let Mr. Kalabić be prepared. Just one moment please. So, I apologize, Mr. Novaković has previously applied for the replica, too. So we have a replica, Mr. Novaković and a replica of Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8710	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to replicate to Mr. Remzić, so, Mr. Remzija Kadrić, I'm sorry, I won't, uh, Mr. Halilović, since I assume that someone from SNSD will be replicating Mr. Halilović. So, I'd be really happy and I'd be happy to hear from Mr. Kadrić that the future minister of security, not only won't let them take him to Guantanamo, but also won't let the priests, as happened in the last term, mean that he won't allow much more of what was going on in BiH's space, and I don't think that that's how he formulated his discussion and thus showed up, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to solve, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to, to, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to, to the, to the, to the, to the, to, to, to, to, to, to the, to, to the, to the, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, to the, the, to the, to the, to the, to the, the, the, to So, then, at this point, I would really feel that Mr. Remzi and I are thinking the same thing. Whether we think this minister is going to be able to do it or not, but at least we want to do it the same way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8711	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Izetbegović answered for the replica, and I really ask you, here, now another debater has applied, if you intend any more of you to discuss 40, please let us conclude this list. And the list is practically closed. Here you go, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8712	I think this is one important thing for the public, this Sefer Halilović has been calling for years that some money, from some donations, has been stolen, has been transferred to some account, some villas are being built, some families, some individuals are privatizing, uh, meat factories. Here, I ask Mr. Sefer Halilović to name it all. From which donation, which money, who stole, to which account did he transfer, who made the villa, who privatized it, which families were rich? Let him give it all his name and name, and we'll trust him. But keep an eye out, good, 'cause it's easy to talk to someone and something. Who, what and how? Let him take a good look, and let him measure, this one, whom he will charge, and let him once give information to this, this mad public, once, once, once, let them name it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8713	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Mr. Halilović is also a replica, right? It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8714	Yes, it is. Mr. Izetbegović, of course we'll raise the accounts and I'll never say one thing, and I don't have very strong and very firm evidence and arguments for that. So, never in any way, I never said anything about which I didn't have very firm evidence and very firm arguments. This time just for starters, if it doesn't take up too much of your time, there's going to be a chance that we're still talking about this, because this is a very serious, complex topic and I'm saying that tens of billions have ended up in private, private pockets. I claim that these BiH citizens were deceived and robbed and could not be robbed or deceived by anyone else but those who were in power. For starters, look at the National Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this is my request to this Parliament, to check only at the National Bank of BiH that 5 billion stamps of checks signed in Sarajevo by authorised persons have gone to the accounts in Frankfurt, Munich and Vienna. So, I'm looking for information on how many checks are signed and certified at the National Bank of BiH, they exist in the BiH archives, who signed them and who were authorized persons to, on them, to have with them, to dispose of that money? If you don't have, if you've destroyed it, I'll give you one good piece of those checks signed at the National Bank of BiH and a chosen group of seven, eight people, which I'm going to tell this Parliament which, not today, next time, because it's not a topic, we have those funds and overnight we have in BiH, and everyone sees it, a small group of rich people, millionaires, who envy Rokfeler and the rest of them and we have poor people on all sides that make ends. So, I'm going to substantiate the documents, and I'm looking for information from the National Bank of BiH on listed checks. The answer to these questions, when I asked earlier, was from those who were collecting funds for BiH's defence and reconstruction, their answer was whether they were obliged to account for donors, not BiH citizens. 41 If they were obliged to account for donors, not BiH citizens, why did the checks have to come to check at the National Bank of BiH, why were they authorized by BiH officials...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8715	Mr. Halilović, it's a replica. It's three minutes, so you ask MP questions and so on. I really, we left the topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8716	I'm, I'm done, so I thought, I think I've been clear with questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8717	Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Please, will you, Mr. Izetbegović, just, please, a little, just, please, a little patience, a little patience. Mr. Nanić, you called, what are you answering for? Replica. Mr. Bahtić, I'm going in a row, please, a little patience. You'll all get your word. Mr. Nanić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am really sorry that, here today, at this session, this, and for the first time in my reporting to this Parliament, I have to use the opportunity to be a replica for reasons I can't, to keep quiet about the things Mr. Halilović said about Agrokomerc, as the landscape that comes from that field, which I spent all the time in that area, that Agrokomertz was Agrokomerc after the war, and in the main, etc.... I hope that we will contribute here to Agrokomerc, that he, that he be what he should be, what he should be and what he is, what his potentials are. And what kind of robbery the AgrokomeracComer was during the war, what happened, and who was covering that field, I hope it wasn't the project of the new National Block of the DNZ and the party to which Halilović belongs.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8719	Thank you, Mr. Nanić. Gospdine Bahtić, is your replica the same? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8720	Well, nothing, I also want to replicate, Mr. Halilović. He's been bringing such things out in public lately, he's really out of his mind. I think we should make an argument. And Mr. Halilović, obviously you and yours, your society would like this state of BiH.... If there were any donations, it was normal, it was, the state must somehow defend itself. So, you obviously wanted, and your colleague Zlatko Lagumdžija, to end this war a little differently, laugh you, laugh you. Just laugh. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8721	May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Please, please listen to me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8722	The state is above all else and thank Bog that there are patriots who put all their resources, their own, their spare time and who went to defend this state of BiH, unlike those who, who would like to, to take a different course of this war... That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8723	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić. Here comes Mr. Dolić for the line, if I understand. Here's Mr. Sefer Halilović, is there anyone else for the replica? No, I didn't even think there was, God forbid. Here you go, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8724	I'll, uh, I hope there's a chance in this House to talk about what's been done in Agrommertz. Mr. Halilović cannot give enough evidence of how much Agrokomerc has been robbed and destroyed, unfortunately, I am a living witness as much as and to what extent Agrokomerc has been robbed, precisely by the will of those whose representative and Mr. Nanić. Unfortunately, the issue could not reach the public, these images could not reach the public. You believe that the robbery and destruction of Agrokomerac is far greater than what Mr. Halilović said here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8725	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Here's Mr. Halilović and I suggest to all those who have said here that they know a lot, that they have documentation, etc., that things go to the judicial authorities. But here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8726	Very, very briefly, um, I think it's incorrect that Mr. Bahtić connects me and Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr Lagumdžija is the president of the Social Democratic Party, I am the president of each other's party, as he has his president, etc., and I think that if he has to every time he talks about the weather, about the condition, uh, on the roads, possibly about snow, whether there's snow or no snow, to catch Lagumdžija, that's his problem. Uh, what I'm going to ask is for this law to be abolished first, this shameful, embarrassing law that has amnested crime for five years in Bosnia. After that we'll give, give, uh, very argumentative... namely who is, where, when and how it worked. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8727	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. I hope we've finished this one series of replicas and we'll finally give Mr. Lagumdžija the word, and let Mr. Kalabić be prepared. We still have Mr. Erić, Mr. Erić, you are last, here is Okolić, and I hope, just a little bit, so here he comes, of course at a good time, and Mr. Lijanović. Is there anyone else here, or are you waiting for us to shoot each other, and then we'll sign in. Okay, here's Mr. Lijanović, no more. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8728	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, as well as these current members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman and members of the Bureau, I hope that someone will let you know what happened and I welcome you in your absence. I've been told by a colleague of mine, on good faith, that it would be better if I didn't talk because he's justifiably doubting that I'm going to talk about the subject, and I'm afraid it's been a little bit of who's going to be interested. But, well, I'm still gonna, uh, just support a few of the discussions that were here and I'm gonna do it. I support, here at the beginning, a fellow Izetbegović, who looks at me, I support his proposal and his discussion and I hope that he will remember his discussion, he has the power to turn his discussion into reality, given how many votes are behind him and we will be with him when he asks for an annual report from this Council of Ministers. It's good, it's going to be one innovation on two basiss. First, we haven't had an annual report from the Council of Ministers in four years, so it'll be an innovation. And the other innovation will be that it is a constitutional obligation to submit a report annually so that this innovation will be respected by the Constitution, which is good and you have full support on it. I believe that Mr Špirić, as an MP, has always regretted that there is no report, will now be in a position to give it to us so that we all work better together. I was one of those twelve members of the commission, who, along with, whether, now agreeing with Sefer Halilović, agreed on the commission not to give these people consent. I'll tell you why. I mean, I haven't talked to these people at all, I'm glad I met some people for the first time and I really, uh, I think I'm a richer man for some knowledge and some of the people I've met here. Uh, I've been, I've got to admit, sad, after two days and a little scared, in what we're going to see these people with patriots, there are capable people, there are extremely big and good technocrats among them, but I haven't seen a team from talking to them, I haven't seen them have a common denominator that connects them and it scares me. It scares me if the top people are going the wrong way, and there are people out there who aren't that great and they don't know how to stop, an even bigger tragedy if you start to stop them. So it scared me on one collective plan. I was just following what the Honorable Chairman Špirić gave us in his exposé, then I resented him for having no way and when, most of all, what he was going to do, I expected the ministers in those talks, because I saw that since the formal interrogation there was nothing, namely, we saw that the first day was what we got the banal thing. 44 That famous property chart, right, Doc, when we saw the first day that the vjeće of Ministers chair had twenty times more savings than all his ministers combined, when we said it would be good and they delivered, in 24 hours there was a million... uh, ahead of us, and it was quite pleased to see it go. And this commission, however, in a nice way, I think, will begin to establish one... a system that, hopefully, in four or eight years, will, however, be real. I haven't even talked about their moral and other qualifications, I don't have that right, especially it's not right to talk about people like that. I didn't even talk about their professional qualifications too much, uh, asked, because they were more visible. I've seen extraordinary experts, I've seen extraordinary experts, even for what they want to be ministers for. This one, and I have to admit, it made me happy. What led me to suspect everything I've seen, in fact, that I don't have an answer that hasn't been given to us by the chairman, that's what we expected from them, that's how it's going to happen when those things that the Council of Ministers have given to them all on a mission. I'll give you a few examples. I have seen that there is no Law on Higher Education in front of us in some reasonable future, that a new minister stands behind it and sees how he will do it and on what grounds. I saw that a unique VAT rate would remain until further notice, the minister said he was ready to talk, but he's like a smart enough man to be behind that commitment to there's some big commitment when he says something like that. So, unfortunately, we've seen that from the coefficient 0, even if for emergency stuff, we can't get anything right away. I saw, too, that we had a vagueness of how to ensure the painless assembling of 10,000 soldiers. By when, what about that extra? I saw that there was nothing I called a road map for BiH's six-way out of Guantanamo and resolving the issue, as a humanitarian question, not on what it was because we can't fix it, and it should be given to the court in a metric way, so that it can be done that these people are coming back and it has the obligation of this Council of Ministers because two years ago, counterpart Belkić, has reached a conclusion unanimously, which has obliged the outgoing Council of Ministers to end it, and they haven't ended it and then, logically, questions arise, did they perhaps not want to finish it or some have not. We didn't see any support for the law of confiscation of robbed property from the minister. We didn't see much leadership in constitutional change because we expect the Council of Ministers to give it to us now. We didn't see that police reform is clear, so much that preparedness exists that it, and that clarity, comes to us when it comes to the Ministry of Security. We've seen a lot of wishes, but not a plan to stimulate domestic production and reduce trade deficits. We've seen that Corridor Vc doesn't have any divisions in the plan for Tuzla and Banjaluca, we've seen the truth that it has a willingness, that it has a separate Adriatic-Ionian highway, which is good, but I doubt it's a priority to connect with Tuzl. We saw, too, that we have a plan to make an increase in money for the roads, not where? We saw the willingness to reach the entire Corridor in six, seven years, from which we could conclude that 200 km of highway will be made in these four years, which is a huge thing, but we haven't seen how. We have seen that in the information society, as they say, the seminarically could not be passed, we have seen that public service, as a problem for the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, we have no clear vision except for one, one, so to speak the fog behind which 45 sees three national channels and, after all, we have seen that the Stabilisation and Association Treaty has no clear path. I think it's very good that we started this process, I think that, I wish these people good luck, and I wish the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It's clear that Špirić was given names, that he didn't choose them. You can see that. That, in the end, is what I said, that he got a proposal from the party and it's obvious he passed them on to us, you see exactly where he had the influence. You can see where he could read it. Interestingly, the more he could read he got better technocrats for the job, the more he scares me that these others aren't good technocrats. And Špirić got them, and he was very happy to forward them because he wasn't responsible for it, those are the other ones, I wish him success in the work and this team, I wish I was wrong, I wish I was wrong. You have full support from us, too bad after 130 days we don't talk about 100 days of government. It's not our fault. I see that in 200 days, when the government is 200 days, we'll get the Minister of the Army, and that's something. We see we have a team, but it's not even. Believe me, I'm, I know what I'm talking about, I'm ready for you, if you want, if someone wants me to say, that I've seen some people for the first time, and, really, it's about people who at the technocrat level are no mistake, but when the question is, who are you going to, how are you going to fit into this around here, you see that these are so smart people that they know that they're giving you the answer that calms you down, but there's no answer. So it's all about that, and that's why this inequality that we have here scares me. I also saw that we're going to have to be a constructive opposition with great, great energy, we're going to be a composition of the opposition, constructively this way of working that I've seen in these two, three days that is ahead of us. We won't be opposition to this country, God forbid. We're going to hit hard on the design mistakes I've already seen, and I'm afraid they'll pile up from day to day if you don't start removing them. I would also ask you to excuse the four months a little bit, this Parliament costs about 400,000 marks a month, and here we adopted one record, we entered in the fourth month, it's a little expensive joke for one of the minutes that we're doing. Mr. Belkić, I'm talking to you, I'm sorry, don't be angry, what I'm about to tell you, I really see that you are tired of working like this, and our work, and not yours, I would ask you to protect us as much as possible in the future. It's the best way to protect yourself. You know very well that you are expected to, however, prevent some of the things you see on the horizon, not take us anywhere. I was in a position today to be mentioned before I even opened my mouth about things that have to do with me, like an ozone hole has to do with you, and yet I don't blame you. So it would be good to have that in mind, though. I would ask colleague Hadžiahmetović to join us. We, among other things, will be against it because of the gendarmes. And because of the gendarmes, we'll be against it. The Council of Ministers, where counterpart Hadžiahmetović was in a better structure when it came to the jender, although it was not a legal obligation. And today, a colleague of Hadžiahmetović is asking here to compensate for this by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Legal obligations that are not fulfilled cannot be compensated. It's illegal to compensate. Odna changes her way of working, if it's working, and I'm afraid that this cop is himself, in fact, she has rightly warned that we are even doing things that are questionable from the legal point of view. I don't think that's good. And as far as we're concerned, you'll have full support from the SDP. 46 Finally, 15-16 years ago, a man was elected to a similar ministerial or presidential or vice-presidential post, so when people came to rebel against some failures of the then government, he said, "Find me a smarter and better one than me, I will immediately take him as a helper." Some say he told the deputy. Uh, it would be good if some people, however, had a little better assistants if you didn't hit your ass with the Civil Service Act. Don't fly, this is one warning. If you're no better than an assistant, don't change them against the law. And Einstein and Tesla are both people with CV but they never thought to be health ministers because they used to be sick. It's not a qualification, which you have the top CV for something, that you're doing something that you're not qualified to do, but that time will show. However, this country, thank Bog, will not fail or be divided, guaranteed, however, one large majority of people here, these oppositions, and hopefully a number of people who are ashamed to say they are in the coalition, so they call it partnership. Never mind, when you translate that partnership to strangers, believe me, the translator will translate it from the word "coalition". Because they don't know the difference between a coalition and a partnership, because it doesn't exist. And it's no shame to be with someone. What my colleague Izetbegović said, SNSD and SBiH were raising their hands against each other, thank Bog, they will no longer, now they will raise their hands for each other and it is, however, one encouragement that we face today. Finally, Mr. Chairman, I asked three ministers the same question. And, please, here, let us be clear about one working conclusion that I propose as a gesture of this House today, which will be addressed to both the Presidency and this Council of Ministers. And it concerns one thing that burdens this country, not from the point of view of what it was. History and every court will make a decision, an assessment of what happened, but we have an obligation. Two years ago, a decision was made in this House and it was the responsibility of the Council of Ministers to get six people trapped in Guantanamo to be helped by this Council of Ministers, this Presidency and... the other presidency, the second council of ministers, to do what needs to be done, so that these people, as a humanitarian issue, would be freed. I do not want to open it, and when it is necessary to be prepared about it, and I call on you, Mr. Chairman, today as a gesture of all of us who concluded it two years ago and no one has done what should have been done in these two years, by the executive authority, I propose a conclusion, please, as a message from today's session, tasked the Council of Ministers to, with the full coordination of the relevant ministries and with the assistance of the BiH Presidency, and above all, the Ministry of Justice, Human Rights and Foreign Affairs immediately approach the creation and realization under quotes, "Map of Ways to Return bh. Six Gvantanama, which will be reported in three months. Please, I would like, therefore, Mr. Chairman, not to, uh, go in the wrong direction, to write this conclusion, and I would prefer it as some of our messages, if we, however, had decided to respect our conclusions of this Parliament, and to make a commitment to the new Council of Ministers, and then let it all go to its own right, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8729	...five minutes 47.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8730	I didn't hear, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8731	I say five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8732	Five minutes was over. I must admit I'm touched by your kindness to give me five minutes over. How untouchable I was by your unkindness when you were able to listen to people who, both you and I feel the same way, spoke to me, although I was practically absent when they were, in general, yes...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8733	So, when it comes to the word,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8734	Just don't worry about me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8735	No, I'm not worried at all. There's no problem. So, of course, both. When it comes to, uh, your initiative and this conclusion, Mr. Lagumdžija, listen to me. We have the conclusion of this House. So we have that conclusion that you're talking about. Two years ago, precisely, this parliament was in charge of the Council of Ministers. That conclusion is not deleted. He didn't disappear from the face of the earth. I sincerely hope in handing over commitments to the Council of Ministers in the new council and the old, that they will take over the Council of Ministers of unfinished affairs in the way they agree there. And we don't need to, Mr. Lagumdžija, make a conclusion. We can ask what's going on with our conclusion. Do you understand me? I don't mind. So neither any of the MPs, etc. But let's not burden things, conclusion to conclusion. We'd rather ask what happened to our conclusion. Here you go, this one. Is it some kind of,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8736	No, Bog forbid. I wouldn't want you, when a man says a replica, he starts to get worried about who he's replicating if he's not used to, and yet you, uh, shouldn't be too used to this. So, I just want to explain what I just said. This conclusion that I made, it is more precise than what was concluded, because, in this three days, I have identified and very clearly identified, we have identified all, which are the ministries that need to do something, and we need to direct the Council of Ministers to inform us no later than three months of what was done, because that conclusion you were talking about, objectively did not give 48 results and it is a continuous character. As a continuous character, there's none of it, and that's why I suggest. Well, I'll deliver it to you, of course. I'd love to. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8737	Wait a minute, so, wait a minute, here come the people. Did you want something, Bećirović? Replica, sir, so bear with me, one at a time. Did you want anything, Mr. Bećirović?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8738	Mr. Lagumdžija, you should have waited a little while so listen to this demagogue of yours you've been talking about here. And we would, we're here, I'm glad you came. And that you want to mention the ones you delivered to Guantanamo, the infamous camp. I welcome you here. You say as a member of the committee, you're sad. Of course you're sad because you're not there. Blinded, he says, I haven't seen the team. And you are blinded by power, you see nothing but power. I don't blame you for that. Moral qualities, at least you don't have the right to talk here. It is known that you took money from taxpayers, citizens of Canton of Sarajevo, grants and you took an apartment in Alipashin.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8739	Mr. Bahtić, I'm really asking you. It's about personal things that you need in a different way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8740	You're saying I didn't see, no no, we're talking, this is all a discussion, I'm talking,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8741	I need you to report there to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8742	Mr. Chairman, I have the right to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8743	Then you do, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8744	He's been talking for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8745	But not like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8746	This way. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8747	Such a way is not quite appropriate in this House, be sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8748	He says he's not supported in the adoption of the law of confiscation of illegally acquired property. So you need to be taken away. I will vote to protect you, not to take away. You're the most here. Get your chart. What you've accomplished. I know what's bothering you, your group privatized 30%, not 70%. You learned to have 100%. To subtract and take all of the 100%. You don't want a Lagumdžija. You're looking for protection from Belkić. It is the chairmanship for you, it is not Belkić. Well, Krešo Zubak told you, you're acting like a child who's got a toy. He needs to give you a duo while he calms down. Those who have promised you a post in Doboi, they blame you and blame them. Don't blame us MPs here. And your methods, all of yours, the story, is pure demagogy, which the people say is "spit story." It's clear to everyone here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8749	Mr. Živković, also a replica. Did you, Bećirović, report for the replica? _________(?) He's his own greatest replica. Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8751	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, just three false allegations, not replicas. One false allegation is that someone has raised hands on each other, the Party for BiH and the SNSD. If you were referring to the past unfortunate war, it was there that the citizens of BiH and the peoples of BiH held on to each other, even those of the same people against each other, so I reject any insinuation that someone from the Party for BiH or someone from the SNSD, had raised hands on each other. Another false quote is when you said the Public TV Service Act on BiH was not passed. I remind you that this law was adopted on 28.11.2005 in this home, and 21/12/2005 in the House of Peoples. And third, as much as I know English, I probably know him less than you do, but I know for sure that "partnership" and "coalition" are two different words. They are transmitted differently in English and it is not true that they cannot be translated. And I don't think this is just three individual false allegations, but that your entire discussion is one false allegation. And you've best said that you here want to be the opposition in this House. I call on you to be an opposition to the position, the work of the Council of Ministers, that 50 not be what you are obviously from your discussions or from your work you are an opposition to the state of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8752	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here he came before Mr. Zorić, for the replica, also on your discussion. Same to you, same to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8753	I have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Lagumdžija told him at the beginning of his presentation that a representative had told him that it would be better not to speak. No, I just asked him if he'd give up the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8754	Mr. Zorić, Mr. Lagumdžija, is it a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8755	I'm glad Mr. Živković found it appropriate to replicate his coalition partner. See what you call a coalition partner. Yes, yes, coalition partner Bakir Izetbegović, only after I repeated it. And now he's replicating me, and he didn't find it appropriate to replicate it to his coalition partner. This, however, is not English class and there is no need to harass people even with free lessons, and yet, as much as this one, I am qualified for this thing, when it comes to the spirit of what is meant by the word coalition and partnership. And finally, regardless of the law that you mentioned was passed here in this House, which concerns the part of the regulation of relations from the domains of public service and TV channels, translated into folk language, that we do not wrap people with our names of the law. This is about the condition for the Stabilisation and Association Treaty to adopt appropriate legislation to regulate public television services. Read federal television, RS television and PBS. Now, that's not done and that's what I'm talking about. And what you've all seen as, like, the reason for a false quote or a replica, that's something that's perfectly natural when you mistake who your partner is and who you're replicating at all. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8756	Thank you very much, I'm really asking you to stop replicating the agenda and try really, uh, work. So, Mr. Kalabić, let Mr. Okolić be prepared, if I understand Mr. Erić and Okolić have agreed. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8757	Kalabić. It's not Kalabić, Kalabič. Gentlemen Chairman, the honourable members of the former Council of Ministers and future, distinguished fellow MPs, I have the need to say a few sentences on behalf of the SNSD Club, and by respecting our relationship with this session today, for which we have tried to do everything that it has the character that deserves, that it has the character that stands in the agenda and that it has the character to choose the Council of Ministers and what the public expects, and I fear that we have failed to do so, but not our fault. We from the SNSD, we have a little problem here because at this point in RS, the opposition is almost gone, so we're in the middle of a little bit, so we're getting a little harder to get used to these opposition things, but it's not disputed. The opposition should be respected, the opposition causes my personal sympathy always, especially if it is long-term and wishes it a happy future. The SNSD for the first time in this capacity participates in this story and I think it's shown over the past days and months all its responsibility. He made it clear that BiH's best political story is at this point and this debate today has shown. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been said here, but the fact is that we're the presidential candidate for the man who won 65,000 personal votes in the election. The fact is, for the first time, there's been serious exposés of candidates filed here, the fact is today, that we've been running against people who, at least at this point, I haven't heard a single serious remark, the fact that we've satisfied all possible and professional, so if you want these about gender equality, what your colleague has demonstrated, in every respect of both the Parliament club and this part, it shows that we've taken responsibility, that we've shown seriousness by respecting all the things that have followed us. All aware of the procedures, the powers, constitutional, legal and other procedural issues, we have today what is before us and we thought that we would all deal with it, not with some other things that are an empty story to us. In RS, we started certain processes and I think they are good, that they are positive, that they, whether they want to admit it or not, feel it throughout BiH and why they do not ask everyone to support it. Why it's a questionable thing that's positive. The RS is, we have the right to say, at this point, a better part of BiH. We fight. What is contentious in our desire to make this progress is that we want to do so to others, not that, like some here today, we act on the principle: what is worse in the neighborhood that someone will get better. That story's gone. We don't want to do that story anymore. We are taking part in the preparation of these sessions today, showing one flexibility that the chairman has indeed put forward, the efforts, because others are pulling out of the context of certain parts and do not want to fully see everything he has done in recent days, so that BiH will get the Council of Ministers today. And I remind you that the first day after the election of SNSD and Mr Špirić were in these same positions and waited for everyone else to come to those positions today. And that is the fact that we will positively end it and that it is a recognition of the SNSD's responsibility for BiH and a responsible approach to this business. Anyone who participates, in accordance with their constitutional position, in this story, also assumes some of the personal responsibility for what 52 does and what they will do, both in this Parliament and in the context of individual positions in the Council of Ministers. The SNSD fought a hard fight in the RS to get rid of empty stories, I think we did it. We're dealing with an economic story, and this is the other one. We'll try to do it here too. We'll try to say that the empty story here today is to open up some things that have nothing to do with the agenda. What we're here for today is going to be time for everyone else, because everything that's said today, I guess there's going to be points of the agenda that we're going to be able to say our position, to give conclusions, to make suggestions as well. Indeed, one great period is ahead of us. But we should not try to abuse this session in that direction today because if someone thinks that SNSD has not cleared up with a story called Radovan Karadžić, it is wrong. We did it a long time ago. Maybe some people don't remember. That story, if anyone thinks to place strikers, Protestants and others, and their real demands today close with that assumption that RS will be controversial if it's good and prosperous, I think it's a failed story. When we talk about principles, with honorable exceptions, most of the political parties in this House have had the opportunity to address the principles they are proposing today. And we can analyze it, but we won't, we'll leave it for a second chance. Everyone's going to have a chance because today someone's mentioned a famous story about beating up priests, and I'd just remind that then the Deputy Security Minister was in the SDS and I never know if he did anything about it. So I'm talking about a principled story, and it doesn't have to be opened that way if it has this deficiency, the lack of it. So do all the other things. This is where the SNSD came to spread positive energy. It has also shown this approach today by preparing this session, by being the chairman, and I think that, in the next period, it will come to an understanding here and hopefully, the satisfaction of all the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8758	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Mr. Okolić. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8759	I had no intention of reporting, however, I have to say that when I hear it through the media, this is the first time I've heard it in this House, the ears of a finding that is basically incorrect. And I can't keep her quiet. If any of them can, they can shut her up. He says RS is a better part of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What makes RS a better part of Bosnia and Herzegovina? I think it's really morally unsustainable thesis. And I can't keep her quiet in this House. And I would suggest to everyone not to use that thesis at all in the BiH Parliament. Don't use it for those 10,000 dead pieces of silver, for a million exiles and all that was in that space. It's better to discuss some other things than to give such flat-rate reviews because we won't get far then. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8760	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Let's take it in a row. Mr. Novaković first called, if I saw correctly. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Kalabić? Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, Azra, would you like a replica? Mr. Kalabić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8761	Exactly what he wants to impose here, what we're fighting against, is a look into the past. It's not a questionable view of the past if it brings something and if it gives something concrete today, and I don't see it, according to the agenda or what's here today in front of us. This story is well-known to us and trust the SNSD MPs will not pass. What is most of the citizens of the RS who are fighting for economic prosperity today has nothing to do with what you're talking about. You're saying today that you don't trust the institutions that are formed here, that you're dealing with it, that you don't trust the international institutions that are dealing with it, and that you want to re-emerge that story from the beginning. We've been through this story. And the SNSD was clear, unlike some others who had been flirting with some stories for some time and had not clearly been determined to this day, they would have to be determined in the future. We're completely clear. Every story is an individual story. There is a place where it is being resolved and those places have our full support, to get rid of it, as these institutions insist.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8762	Just a minute, Mr. Novaković. Mrs Hadžiahmetović called earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8763	I have a need to remind my colleagues who, through their discussion and through the replicas, potentiate entity interests, that we are here at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. I ask you to take care of the way this house works at the very beginning of work. All particular interests are known where their addresses are. I ask you to profile the spirit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8764	Here, I'm asking you all one more time not to replicate the agenda and do the job. But here, obviously people, uh, are ready for this kind of conversation. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8765	Some colleagues aren't, then, familiar with the activities of, of course, this one, and they don't have to be from the last call. I would ask that services, especially mentioned here, I have mentioned the case of the priest Starovlah and the events, so, on that case, that question has been discussed in this House here. This parliament has formed a commission dealing with the issue. The commission has even made, therefore, one conclusion or how, which 54 was, uh, in Strasbourg and so, it might be good, means colleagues who are interested in this case that are simply being delivered to them and I really repeat, I didn't point out this case, but I wanted to tell Mr. Remzija that it would be good and not single out any of them, but that the future Ministry of Security is keeping an eye on them, means that no case is happening that can leave any consequences in the position of BiH and any part of it. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8766	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Okolić, get ready. Mr. Erić, and we still have Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8767	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Presidency, fellow Members of the BiH Presidency, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of the current Ministers' Council and future ministers of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, representatives of information funds, political parties, dear guests, I will try very briefly to focus on the agenda and probably will not cause any replica, which does not mean that, until now my colleagues have spoken, they do not deserve a debate in this assembly but on some other topic and on some other point of some assembly, even if it is a thematic assembly and probably this assembly will have reason to schedule certain thematic sessions at such discussions, etc. However, I am now going to say about what we were doing and why we are here today and right at this point, and that is to confirm the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers. I was a member of that committee and I have certain knowledge that I have personally come to, and I will try to pass it on to you, and that is why I will say why we will be against this proposal from the Council of Ministers from some of my arguments. In this proposal for the Council of Ministers, there are really quality people and indeed there are people who deserve and who can do this ministerial job that they've been running for and for the replacement job they've been running for, but this all looks to me like one team playing for one team. True, if it's about ministers it's a little less than 11 if it's with deputies it's a little more than 11 of them, but it comes from different countries and from different bosses who pay them, and they have one coach and all those bosses care that the team doesn't win because of some of their interests. And that's why I'm afraid. So, I'm not saying, but I'm afraid that this Council of Ministers will, in the way it is, even though I said that almost everyone, means, I'm excluding some, I can give a passing grade in all parts, they've gone through the interview, from expertise to some other things, but my concern is that they, under the quotes, won't be able to make a policy of the Council of Ministers, and they won't be able to make politics at the end of this house and at the 55th end of the BiH citizens, because they'll probably have to do what they're told to do as they do to their own, maybe to tenants or some others, and not perhaps, as it would be good for the institution and end for the citizens of BiH. It is my opinion, and I will, after a certain number of days of work by this Council of Ministers, which I hope today that you will probably choose, change your mind if my assumption is wrong and, of course, I will give all the people and ministers who are chosen to support in everything that is good for the citizens of BiH, and I will harshly and fiercely attack and warn about what is not good. And also to remind them that during the interview, I recorded everything I asked them and everything they promised to do in their term of office, including in the time they needed. I will remind them of it, along with my party colleagues and others who will be interested, remind them and remind them and see if they will be able to do what they did through this humble interview, because we did not ask much of them, we promised. I hope some of them will, some won't, but it means my concern is because they come from different political parties that have different parliamentary, uh, programs, here's the thing, someone says coalition, someone says parliamentary majority, here I'll say parliamentary majority and all that's okay. But their interests are different. It was seen here today in this particular, uh, story, as soon as the interests are different I'm afraid, then, that this organ will be able to work the way it should, but it doesn't matter, so for now it's my opinion, and we'll see how it's going to be. I've been on that committee somewhere and against, somewhere and even for, somewhere and restrained, because it's a commission where we've been investigating the likeness of gentlemen nominated for ministers and deputies and assessing their ability and their vision of whether they can do these jobs and it has nothing to do with these political attitudes right now. Today we will be here, because today we will vote here in the package, to vote individually, probably on our part some of the ministers or some of the ministers would get a passing grade with our explanation, which is why we won and if we are the opposition, because I have repeatedly stressed that we, or at least I can say for myself, and I can say for us, a constructive opposition and we will never be the opposition that will harm this Parliament and harm the citizens of BiH, but we will be the opposition that will make the position work better and what positions will come well because they will hear from us what is wrong in their work. I was worried, but before I heard from certain persons yesterday at the interview, I will not mention their name for their discredition, of course, that those who have worked in certain ministries on certain duties etc., that it is not there, exactly, that some state is great at least in certain ministries, that there are many things in their assessment and their findings that have not been arranged, and on my question whether it can be arranged very quickly, given the minister and the deputy, that they are not from the same party, and whether they have the same opinion. I'm not convinced that I got the answer, that it can be done very quickly and efficiently and that the ministry is going to start doing it the way it's supposed to. I said that everything that was promised by the candidates, means for ministers and deputies, I wrote it myself because right now, this can be confirmed by every member of the commission, and also by the president of the commission, asked the most subtle questions and the most subtle things that are vital to all citizens, and so that the number of questions is very short and they will be able to focus on it. 56 And finally, let me say, we will certainly have the need for the thematic sessions, but, to conclude today with this proposal, that for these reasons, it means, not alluding to any person of the gentlemen who have been nominated as ministers or deputy ministers that they are not capable etc.. I said it at first that there are a lot of them, but I am sorry and, unfortunately, they are not playing or they may not be able to play under the same directive, and so for now I don't think this Council of Ministers will be able to fulfil their obligation. And that's why we're not gonna support this proposal for the Council of Ministers. Which does not mean, after a certain time and a report that they will deliver to us, that, of course, we will not, if it is in the interest of this congregation and of this people, change our minds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8768	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. We have Mr. Erić now. Here you go, Mr. Erić. Give up? Thank you very much and we have Mr. Lijanović. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović. And in this way we have exhausted the registered debaters and after this discussion we will conclude the debate and move on to the work of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8769	Dear Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I, look, I've been following this debate for a few hours, and I'm trying to think about what the average families who sit in front of small screens think and listen to this debate. Are their problems these problems we're discussing? I get the impression they're not. I think it's their problem: that kids can't get a job, that their father has a small salary and can't have their kids, that grandparents don't have pensions, pensions, that they can live on. I believe that we are chosen here to solve their problems, to solve, too, the problems of our economy, our entrepreneurs who are probably now, too, in front of small screens and in their offices, waiting for a new Council of Ministers to offer some new environment, a better environment, that they are developing their business. In order to do so, we must appoint a chairman, which we have already done, we must appoint ministers and deputies. I met Mr Špirić in 2001, when he was delegated to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We worked together for less than two years, he always advocated the development of the BiH economy. Even on several occasions, we refused to ratify some free trade agreements, which have caused major damage to BiH. At one point, under a lot of pressure from import lobbies, these contracts were ratified. And today, after six years, we see that the deficit to which these contracts have contributed is about 40 billion marks. If by any chance they had stayed in BiH, the situation would have been much better for us. I believe that Mr Špirić is sorry that he then gave in to certain things and that he will not do so in this term. He had a chance to appoint a part of the minister or deputy himself, and if he believes in that team that he will produce a certain result, I want to believe too. 57 The People's Party Work for betterment will support Mr Špirić and his team, although there are no members of the People's Party working for the better, but as long as the Council for Domestic Production advocates, for the development of the BiH economy will have our support, in case it goes into the wing of import lobbies, those who are against production in BiH, our support will be denied. Denyed for reasons because such a way will re-dispute over 500 thousand unemployed who are supposed to get, not get it, more than 500 thousand pensioners who should increase pensions, and that will not be possible, and also over 500 thousand workers working outside the public sector who need to raise salaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8770	Thank you, Mr. Ivankoviću-Lijanoviju-Lianovic. And I am closing the debate at three, therefore, to confirm the appointment of the deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and Deputy Ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers. Before we move to the vote on the Decision, we are obliged to set ourselves by the Rules of Procedure according to certain initiatives, i.e. written conclusions proposed here to the College, i.e. this Parliament. Mr. Lagumdžija has suggested one conclusion, so, in charge of the Council of Ministers, you heard him say no more. However, we have consulted here. This conclusion is not related to the agenda point and we, as a College, can treat it as an inclusion initiative, as a part of the agenda for one of the next sessions. So it's not the subject of today's session. And as far as the second conclusion is concerned, the proposal for a conclusion is the conclusion of Mr Novaković, which needs to be made. It reads, I don't know if you got it, but it reads, I'll read it carefully. He's very short. The vote at the House of Representatives, which sets out candidates for ministers and deputy ministers, will take place individually for all candidates. So, Mr. Novaković suggests that we vote individually on candidates, not on the decision as an act and a document that Mr. Chairman has submitted to this parliament. So, I'm obliged to put, just one moment, just one moment. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8771	...co-workers, the chairman, this is a business intervention. So, I really didn't have any intention of speaking within this agenda point today, but the path you seem to be taking this final part of the session has put me in a position to take my word for it. 58 Mr. Novaković's initiative to vote individually on ministers and deputies does not have its basis in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Rules of Procedure and does not have its basis in practice. This Council of Ministers has already been set up several times in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I would remind you, at least what I have as an experience, of the practice we had in 2000 and of the practice we had in 20002. Therefore, both the Rules of Procedure and the Practice point out that the Council of Ministers is declared in the package, namely, to make our decision on the approval of the Kabinet appointed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. In addition to the fact that it would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure and to the practice so far that Mr Špirić's approval of the Chamber of Ministers is declared individually about each minister and each deputy, I think it is the opposite of the Council of Ministers' Law and is contrary to the spirit and meaning of such a choice, appointment and approval of the Council of Ministers. Mr Špirić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers has proposed a kabinet and this parliament should be declared either yes or no to the entire cabinet. And I have answered to ask you, Mr. Chairman, not to put Mr. Novaković's initiative on the vote, but to declare, in accordance with what I have been talking about, an initiative that is not in accordance with, in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, and to put in place a proposal for the cabinet, therefore, complete decisions on a plea here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8772	If you'll excuse a few sentences, Mr. Džaferović. And I'm very familiar with the practice you're talking about, and I've been sitting here, so when it comes to practice. That's right. But when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, I wouldn't be so explicit. He doesn't say how to vote. And I don't mind any MP having an initiative and suggesting a conclusion, and I don't see any reason why you wouldn't decide on his initiative. Because in the Rules of Procedure, I didn't see it explicitly put out how it was voted. Are you in the package, are you individually? At least that's how I interpret it, but here's the, uh, here's another opinion. Here, here's Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8773	Here, with respect for a part of the arguments mentioned by counterpart Džaferović, I will only mention that the Party for BiH Club will not support the initiative of counterpart Novaković. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8774	Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8775	In order to be clear about the SDS request, if it is put to the vote that we in SNSD don't mind that each individual, uh, vote and we think that our candidates would get a lot more votes than this assembly majority. However, we are pushing 59 to reject this initiative for individual voting and to vote in line with the decision given by the chairman of the Council of Ministers in the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8776	Therefore, I ask Mr Džaferović to, of course, be assured that this initiative will be rejected by the parliamentary majority, to allow and give a chance, not to deny the right of any MP, if the Rules of Procedure permit it, to do so. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8777	Mr. Chairman, in the legal systems in which a certain institute is established, and this is the Parliament that brings the BiH Constitution and everything that comes from it. Some institute isn't governed by an explicit provision. Practice is really something that shouldn't be questioned, especially if it's a good practice. And that's why I got up here. I am aware of the fact that this initiative, if you put it to the vote, will be rejected and that is the right time. So, rejected. And I suggest you drop it. Parliament can refuse it. I don't want to discuss it for future practice. It is unacceptable for Parliament to declare individually about the members of the Kabinet proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, for the reason that when the cabinet was drawn up, the chairman had many, many elements of such and such, and of this kind and of that kind, and this, in fact, represents a precedent of its activities, and in that decision, except, therefore, those names that were proposed, is, in fact, contained a summary of the overall activities that the Council of Ministers chaired. Don't, don't put yourself in a position, like Parliament, to put some people in a better position, some people in a worse position. This is a team that needs to run the executive board in this country for four years, and don't let us get into a situation to say that someone on that team got 35 votes and that someone on that team got 22 votes, which, of course, is enough to be a member of that team. Not to mention a situation that can theoretically happen that someone doesn't get as many votes as necessary. So all logic, good practice, me and the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution in this way because it can, therefore, be interpreted in this way, indicates that this should be rejected. You, Mr. Chairman, go ahead, uh, do it, but I had an obligation to draw attention to this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8778	Just one moment, Mr. Novaković. You knock on the open door. I absolutely agree with you. But don't put me in a position to reject the initiative and conclusion where the Rules of Procedure didn't explicitly tell me that this document was being voted as a decision and package. And nothing else. 60 So, knock on the open door. I support practice, I support the vote in the package, but don't ask me to reject the initiatives that the Rules of Procedure has in some way opened up for me and I need to check them here. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8779	Mr. Chairman, I understand Mr. Džaferović when he talks about practice. Be careful, the initiative cannot be rejected just because it is one way to define it, and the Rules of Procedure leaves the possibility, meaning, to be different. I am sure that the majority who will vote the Council of Ministers will also vote not to accept this initiative. Or, let's say, rejected as fellow Džaferović prefers it, I guess it was then considered more serious or less important, if it is said to be rejected. So here I am offering that most reject the initiative that I have proposed in a way to plead, to vote on the entire cabinet in one move. So I don't see why such an initiative is at all controversial, why such an initiative is being challenged. That's the only thing I don't get. If it's easier for the chair and for the College, I'm willing to withdraw the initiative. If they think that this will complicate the situation over the Council of Ministers' election. Here I am going to help the college, if they think it's necessary and there won't be an initiative, here I am going to throw it away.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8780	Here's all right. Pull her back so we don't complicate things any further. Here, I'll take your word for it. Pull her back.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8781	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think what you asked for my help came across, here, my goodwill, I'm pulling the initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8782	Thank you very much. Let's move on. So we're voting on the Chairman's decision and supplementing the decision, but it's been cleared. And add to the Decision appointing the deputy prime minister, deputy minister at the BiH Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8783	I have one question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8784	I'd like to ask you, really, to leave the questions for later. There's a vote going on. Well, I just read it. About the decision, about the updated decision. So, it's a clean decision. I'll read it to you now, be patient, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8785	Please, can I have a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8786	Yes, you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8787	And I've heard here from a few debaters lately, so in the last ten minutes, we've been pleading on the entire cabinet. Does this mean that we will vote the three deputies, and Mr Špirić will appoint them later, and is it two decisions or one decision that we plead, is that one decision, or are those two decisions? That's what I'm interested in. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8788	Here, Mr. Zorić, I understand, if you don't mind, I'll read the motion. So, the decision to appoint the deputy chairman, deputy minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. For ministers of the BiH Council of Ministers and vice-presidents of the BiH Council of Ministers are appointed; - for Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, - for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Minister Slobodan Puhalac, - for Minister of Finance and Treasury, at the same time as Deputy Prime Minister Dragan Vrankić, - for Minister of Communications and Transport Božo Ljubić, - for Minister of Civil Affairs Sredoje Nović, - for Minister of Human Rights and Refugees, Safet Halilović, - for Minister of Justice, Bariša Čolak, - for Minister of Security and also Deputy Chairman Tarik Sadović, - for Defence Minister Cikotić Selmo. The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ana Trišić Babić, as Deputy Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Vilim Primorac, is named - Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury Fuad Kasumović - Deputy Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Slavko Marin - Deputy Minister of Justice Srđan Arnaut, - Deputy Minister of Security Mijo Krešić, - Deputy Minister of Defence for Resource Management Marina Pendeš, Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs and Deputy Minister of Defence for Policy and Planning, will be appointed later. 62 This Decision shall enter into force on the date of the confirmation of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Exceptionally of this position, from the position of the 1st member, the appointment and confirmation of the appointment of the defence minister shall take effect on 22 April 2007. Here, that's the content of the decision we're pleading on today. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Listing, of course. Just one second. So, the result of the vote. In total for 32, from Federation 21, from RS 10. In this way, I can conclude that the decision has been adopted, including the entity majority. So a total of 31 for. Members of the Federation, therefore, a total of 31, 21 from the Federation, 10 from Republika Srpska. Oppose 9, abstention 1. In total. So I'm saying that we've confirmed the appointment decision. Congratulations to the chosen one. [[APLAuz]] Congratulations to the elected and I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, of course, followed by the swearing ceremony. Thank you all for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8790	Mr. Chairman, it is my pleasure today to thank the member of the Bureau, Mr. Haris Silajdžić, who sat here all the time and followed the course of this session. I am pleased to be able to thank all of you for believing in this Council of Ministers meeting. I want to tell you that all the remarks you made today on the bill, at least this Council of Ministers cabinet, have not passed by me. I am a responsible man, a man who wants this country to make a strong step towards Euro-Atlantic integration, and I need you and the majority and the opposition for that. I want to say that I appreciate the opposition's views, that they are welcome unless they represent the opposition to the state. The opposition to the state is not tolerated or taken seriously in any country. That's why I invite you all, and who you think you are, anyway, to help this Council of Ministers succeed. I'd like all of us to look forward to success together after four years. I appreciate our success together, actually, living in a situation where an individual can't succeed without a collective. Thank you to the media who have been patiently following, all these days, our activities in forming a new cabinet of the Council of Ministers. I thank all those who gave critical tones to help us work. Thank you, therefore, for your support, I think it goes beyond the 63 parliamentary majority, which is a new sign of encouragement for me personally and for the ministers. I would like to congratulate them personally on holding through the phases of verification and talks at the Parliamentary Commission. I want to thank the Parliamentary Commission, Mr Genjac, who has made an effort to preserve the dignity and political parties and candidates, although this, as you have seen today, is not always easy and easy. I am sorry that there are also those who would like to play with the dignity of the candidates, but our work and the results of the work will be the best answer to doubts, at least, that we are not aware of the challenge and that we do not want good to this country. But we call upon those who doubt, lest they allow us to make these mistakes. Thank you again and I look forward to working together all of us in this country for the benefit of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8791	Here I call, calling on the chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers to give a solemn statement, of course, and MPs to participate together in this solemn act. Is everything okay, is everyone, please, if everyone's here, let's get started, so thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija, you're very careful.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8794	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8795	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8796	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina 64
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8797	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8798	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8799	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8800	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8801	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8802	and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8803	Thank you very much. MPs, please sit in your seats. [[APLAuz]] Gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue the session. I hope those who are away will join us soon. So we're going to point 4 and so we're going to Add.4. Selection of members of the permanent committees of the House, the Constitutional Commission, the Commission on Foreign Affairs, the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, the Commission on Finance and Budget, the Commission on Transport and Communications and the Commission on Gender Equality We are in preparation for this item of the agenda, held two sessions, so to speak, the official session of the Expansive College and one working-constitutive, consulting meeting and, of course, the session of the Uzrega College. The result of all of our, uh, meetings, attempts and arrangements, etc. is this proposal that you, I hope, have on the table. So this is a proposal for the composition of permanent joint committees, i.e. permanent committees of the House of Representatives, if you allow it to be a mistake, I will read it quickly. 65 So, the Constitutional Commission, proposed: - Šefik Džaferović, - Husein Nanić, - Vahid Hećo, - Ekrem Ajanović, - Drago Kalabić, - Lazar Prodanović, - Martin Raguž, - Borjana Krišto, - Momčilo Novaković. Foreign Affairs Commission, proposed: - Halid Genjac, - Sadik Ahmetović, - Azra Hadžiahmetović, - Azra Alajbegović, - Milorad Živković, - Milica Marković – Elez, - Denis Bećirević, - Sefer Halilović, - Borjana Krišto. Foreign Trade and Customs Commission: - Šemsudin Mehmedović, - Edin Mušić, - Ekrem Ajanović, - Mehmed Suljkanović, - Snježana Rajilić, - Jozo Križanović, - Jerko Ivanković-Ivanković-Lijanović, - Hadži Jovan Mitrović, - Slavko Jovičić. Finance and Budget Committee: - Bajazit Jašarević, - Edin Mušić, - Sadik Bahtić, - Vahid Hećo, 66 - Drago Kalabić, - Lazar Prodanović, - Zlatko Lagumdžija, - Savo Erić, - Dragan Vrankić. Transport and Communications Commission: - Husein Nanić, - Šemsudin Mehmedović, - Mehmed Suljkanović, - Sadik Bahtić, - Branko Dokić, - Snježana Rajilić, - Selim Bešlagić, - Dragan Vrankić, - Savo Erić, and the Commission for Gender Equality: - Sead Jamakosmanović, - Halid Genjac, - Jozo Križanović, - Milica Marković, - Mirjana Malić, - Vinko Zorić, - Remzija Kadrić, - Rifet Dolić and - Savo Erić. So, it is a proposal for the composition of permanent committees of the House of Representatives, by the commissions of their members to elect the chairman and two vice-presidents, of course, at their constitutive session. Here's the debate on the proposal I read to you, I hope you have it on you. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8805	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am still under the impression of the final word of the Council of Ministers' Chairman on how he wants to work in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the regulations in the interest of the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to remind my colleagues and colleagues that we've been preparing this proposal that's ahead of us today, having three working meetings, so, the Expansive College they've done, next to our House of Representatives College and club presidents. 67 I was also saying that we have quite correctly taken over the starting principles on which we should reach the most optimal, therefore, optimal solutions to the structure of these working bodies from the point of view and the quality andafinity of individual colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, in order to ensure in some way the best composition in terms of the topics to be dealt with by these committees. There is one very important thing for me, which is arranged for our Rules of Procedure to, which says, befitting the working bodies, so the commission of this house is doing proportionally to the strength of individual clubs. So it's something that obliges us to agree, structure these bodies adhere to it. I must say, with a very high dissatisfaction, that we will not be able to support such a proposal from these bodies for the simple reason why, and therefore, on the basis of such principles, we adopted them, but we did not implement them. The example works, the Constitutional Commission, we had, of course, a proposal that of our six places in the strength of clubs that, not disputed, belong to the SDP, that we had an even distribution by commissions and, as the fourth club in force in this House, we proposed that we have a representative in this commission. That's denied. On the contrary, the seats in the Constitutional Legal Commission received clubs: Mixed Club, HDZ Club and SDS Club. So three clubs weaker in strength, almost double, than the SDP could get that place on the Constitutional Commission, and the SDP can't. I see it with all the reserve and cold thinking as one boastful behaviour of the parliamentary majority towards this political option. If it stays that way, at least I say to myself, I haven't consulted at the club, I won't take part in any further proposals and I'll leave it to you, gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, to schedule members of the SDP Club at your discretion, we won't be, of course, against that, accepting it as our professional commitment, because, of us five, four, we'll professionalise our work in this club. We'll accept that, but for the record of breaking the Rules of Procedure here and having one, let me say, this certain relationship with this political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8806	Do you have any suggestions, Mr. Križanović, specific?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8807	Well, the proposal, I made the proposal, it's a proposal for all proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8808	In a specific sense of the word. Who do you propose instead of who?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8809	It's strange that you're asking that, Mr. Chairman, questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8810	Well, I don't know how different this would be. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8811	The proposal was up until yesterday in the Enlarged College and it is known who the proposal is, the proposal is Jozo Križavnović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8812	It wasn't accepted by all club presidents.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8813	Well, sure, right... There is also something else known about this proposal, and it is not an exclusive proposal either. The proposal is to be someone from the SDP, it doesn't have to be Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8814	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8815	I won't, because you won't let me, at all, access, then I have no right to intervene.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8816	Here you go, any discussion on this... Here you go, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8817	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I too have a need to express my dissatisfaction with the relationship the parliamentary majority has shown towards the opposition in proposing members of the permanent working bodies of this House and the joint committees of the Parliamentary Assembly. After such a broad parliamentary majority, I expected more wisdom and democracy from the opposition, because in fact, in no segment was their breadth threatened. On the contrary, you would have some more control mechanisms and motives to work. Instead of wisdom and democracy, the parliamentary majority has already demonstrated hypocrisy and fear of such a few oppositions in the first step. Not only is the principle of proportionate representation regulated by the Rules of Procedure, in the membership of working bodies and commissions not respected, but the opposition has also been discriminated against in a qualitative sense. It is my personal honor and pleasure to be a member of the Committee for Gender Equality in which I am not even running, but it is hypocritical, and it is hypocritical to predetermine this commission for the opposition. If the democracy of one government is viewed by its attitude towards the opposition and the minority, then this power at the very beginning has shown that it does not hold much to that democracy. The National Club in proposing members for working bodies and commissions is not represented, therefore, either in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or even with other clubs. From the candidate review, in the Decision we received you can see that some clubs with three members have 6 or 7 candidates, we are talking about both of these, so commissions and working bodies, and the National Club is 69 assigned 5 members of committees and working bodies. I really can't accept this humiliation and bid on the opposition and the National Club and I can't support it, so these proposals, because this proposal, after all, wasn't even a proposal that was highlighted at an extended session of the Colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8818	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Izetbegović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8819	So I think we did, relative to Article 30. The Rules of Procedure, abolished this SDP, so they should have been allowed to, as the fourth party in power, be the ones who choose the fourth and then things would agree. So I suggest a break of about half an hour inside which this extended college would make a certain correction to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8820	You're looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8821	Well, I suggest here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8822	So, in front of the SDA Club, break for half an hour. Of course you're right, you're entitled to a business break for half an hour. Mr. Izetbegović, I realized you're looking for a half break.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8823	I suggested we take a break within which the Expansive College would correct this, if others agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8824	I don't mind, uh, I'm talking business, you should ask for a break. I support your break and I will participate in the work. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8825	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. So, I think it will be necessary to do what the president of my club, Mr. Izetbegović, said. After the debate, therefore, we should present, therefore, everything we have to say on this subject and I think it will be necessary to meet the Expansive College and then come up here with a proposal that we will vote on. And before that, I want to say some things before that, and in that direction, as far as I understand it, he was targeting our club's proposal. 70 When it comes to the structure of these parliamentary working bodies, the working bodies of this House, I would not like this assembly of the House of Representatives to come into a situation in which we were once, four or five years ago, and I would like us to respect the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the proportional participation of clubs in parliamentary working bodies. In this context, I think that Mr Križanović's remarks, when it comes to the Constitutional Commission, are in place and I think that the remark that speaks of people, the leaders of these committees are also in place, given the strength of this club, because when we do this list then there must be no position or opposition here, and I would like to do this unanimously in Parliament because it is the working bodies of Parliament, not the parliamentary majority. I say, I was in a very ugly situation. I would hate for that to happen again in this House, and I would like to do it fairly and honestly. I also suggest that in this pause, since the proposal you delivered here has not been nominated by the chairman of the working bodies, that you do so here, because when the commission, for the record, please, I know what you are talking about, the commissions will choose within themselves, but this Parliament must know what the schedule is for the commission to be able to, to choose, not to be later wandering. The Commission will meet separately when you call them to a constitutional session, then they will be formally elected, but for the record. That's how we did it the last time, so don't let him do it to you, so don't let it cause you any trouble to do it with congratulations. And there's one more thing, I think Mr. Izetbegović didn't mention it, we're within the SDA Club agreed to ask you for one change, this when it comes to this commission, that all colleagues can write down, so in the Constitutional Commission instead of Husein Nanić let them overwrite that name and write down the name of Dr. The name of Dr Halid Genjac should be deleted in the External Affairs Commission. Halid Genjac, and let the name of Mr Husein Nanić be written. I suggest, therefore, that after the debate you withdraw to the Extended College and, in the spirit of these discussions, provide us with a proposal that we will accept, I repeat with the deployment of the leaders of these working bodies who, of course, the commission will choose, but Parliament should schedule it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8826	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, with the opportunity indeed at these sessions of the Expansive College to do all this, but here's the good news, which they say is better than ever. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. Here you go. I hope you have a suggestion on how.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8827	It's very short because, hopefully, a proposal has been accepted that we will have a break and that we will agree on an extended college. Obviously, therefore, the SDP initiative is accepted to consider membership in the Constitutional Commission. I don't mind, therefore, trying to come up with a solution at the Enlarged College, with Mr Križanović, among the arguments he cited about membership to the Constitutional Commission, citing clubs with three representatives as they are there. Uh, I, by the way, I mean, we have 8 clubs, the number of seats is 9, the Constitutional Commission deserves all parties, i.e. all clubs to be represented inside, and that should be one criterion, because it should also be one criterion for how constitutional changes and all that is important for BiH to say, 71 dialogue and political consensus of all political parties. And it shouldn't be at the expense, it just means clubs, but at the expense of the entire political spectrum in the Constitutional Commission, I think it's such a strong argument that it's not challenging the right of others, but to find itself within that possibility and I think there's a possibility. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8828	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8829	Obviously, if we had opened the debate, maybe it would have been better if we'd sat there, uh, and made a deal. We've discussed this a few times already. I would just like not to mention the heavy words such as breaking the Rules of Procedure, etc., because we can talk here about qualitative problems, the qualitative problems concerning commissions, but give me any member of the Rules of Procedure that has been broken here. SDP's got 6 seats, we can say if those places are adequate but it's got as many seats as the club's can get here. We can take a half-hour break, Mr. Špirić just invited everyone down to join us, but here's an extended college can sit down and discuss what we're talking about so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8830	Mr. Križanović, Lagumdžija, Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8831	You see article 30, which has already been mentioned here, speaks of working bodies being filled in proportionally to the strength of clubs. And what is, is this the regulation of the Rules of Procedure, is it respected in the particular example I was talking about. It's not. According to counterpart Živković, it means that the form could be satisfied, that out of 6 SDP seats, everyone is in one commission. And then by that there wouldn't be, you'd be pleased with the Rules of Procedure again, would you? That interpretation, of course, cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8832	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Mr. Lagumdžija, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, Mr. Ajanović. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8833	Once again, I would suggest that, in principle, Jozo doesn't talk much but, I mean, it's not hard to follow. He was very clear. Article 30 can't be played by a linguist and say that filling commissions is a mass at the level of all commissions and we can be, I mean, experts on all living things, it looks like we're used to it. However, it is clear as a day that the Rules of Procedure have been violated when it comes to membership in the Constitutional Commission, when it comes to the SDP. 72 Another thing, which is also important, and that is, even if this does not have to, even if it does not have to, having seen your expressed commitment to making a new constitution in line with European standards. If it's a commitment that you don't need us, that you'll get to it without us, we accept it. And that's familiar, there's no problem. But to know that you have shown one political message that you will do so alone with the opposition you, as the parliamentary majority, have read, and have read, what a strange coincidence, only the SDA. And Novaković needs to be your favorite opposition here. I doubt he'd want to agree to that, too, uh, he's the only one, I believe he's good Kalabić, I believe Kalabić, Kalabić that he's great, but if you want to read him right. I'm not running away from it, not even with an argument, it's good. And what I would ask you, Mr. Belkić, since you are right to try to reach an extended College agreement, but the fact is that Jozo Križanović did not agree with the proposal, both on board members and the chairman's schedule. Don't let my colleagueŠefik Sefrik Džaferović, get mad at me for saying this. He has a habit of saying in 2000, the Alliance took all commission presidents into its own hands. And then I argue, Jozo says no, I also think it isn't, but it doesn't matter, then the explanation why in 2002 is that coalition that, haman, looks like this one, with some honorable exceptions or dishonest ones, whatever you want, whoever thinks, took everything into their own hands. Now, if you want the chairman of the committee, I repeat, there is no obligation in the Rules of Procedure, I have not read it, that the opposition should be given one chair seat, except for what has been regulated by law, and that is the famous spy commission. And here, I see, it's been chosen, again, what a strange coincidence, for the head of surveillance of spies to be from the SDS. Come on, let's do it. So, I'd ask you, Mr. Belkić, that we may know which one of us would go to which commission, if it's a matter of agreement, if you don't want to break us as mature pears, let's see if there's a possibility of a political agreement in accordance with the tradition that we're now establishing. To be the way it is in other parliaments, that the chairmanship of committees, it is no robbery, to be, as it is, deployed in accordance with, and with, party forces. Well, we'd better make that whole thing, which, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Džaferović was talking about. Now, we've set up a commission for the first time, this Halidov, so let's try to establish something that will apply to the new Parliament, when someone else, some other government and opposition schedule, is to know about the order of the charter, as it is in all the other parliaments. It's my suggestion, Mr. Belkić, that we sit seriously, if it's only possible once more, if we don't agree in half an hour, then, here you go, most of it and whatever it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8834	I hope you don't doubt that we've been sitting seriously so far, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8835	Well, there's no serious result, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8836	Well, of course there are certain interests, there are political commitment, etc., there is also a need to face it. Mr. Zivkovic's replica. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8837	So, Mr. Belkić, if I may finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8838	Besides these principles, there is political will and commitment, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8839	Please, for what there is a political will.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8840	For certain, memberships in certain commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8841	You have shown this political will that there is no SDP in the Constitutional Commission. It's your political will and I accept it. And I just want her to legitize. That the public knows it's your choice and that it's your political will.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8842	Here's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8843	I didn't know it was the parliamentary majority's position to move us out of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8844	Here you see you're not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8845	Well, that's the political will, so that's your political will that I consider legitimate, but, yes, free is not a consensus between us, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8846	It fits, fits the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8847	What it fits into, that we're not here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8848	So you and Mr. Križanović think we're breaking, we don't think we're breaking.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8849	And you don't think you're breaking it, do you? Well done. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8850	Of course, Mr. Živković, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8851	We started this on... opinions when it comes to technical matters.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8852	So according to what the honourable Messenger of Lagumdžija said and not to be all experts in everything. As the MPs of the universal ignorance, I call on the Secretary of the House to interpret this member in relation to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8853	Who stayed in debt. People answered for a word. So we have a replica, is it, Mr. Novaković, a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8854	Since the esteemed colleague Lagumdžija doesn't believe, uh, that the SDS when it comes to constitutional changes, is, uh, going to behave the way he thinks, so, uh, I have to say, since we were on the same page when it comes to this package of constitutional changes that I'm going to stand up for Mr Lagumdžija's views, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8855	Here, let's get back to the report. Please. Here, I'd like to ask, uh, registered debaters, since this is what's left, let me put it that way, unannounced. Mr. Križanović claims we have violated the Rules of Procedure. We don't think so. Let's hear the secretary at home, this one. Is plural, unique, etc.?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8856	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm trying to resolve this dilemma, which is on the House. So to that end, I just want to read Rule 30 of this Rules of Procedure so that we can all make the right decision. Permanent commissions have nine members while temporary commissions may have up to nine members. Fulfillment of committees, I speak in multitude, is proportional to the size of the House of MPs' clubs, of which two-thirds of the members were elected from the Federation territory, and one-third from Republika Srpska territory. In connection with this article, I also remind you of article 6, which also said that within seven days of the end of the deadline set in Article 5, it is a matter of establishing Members' clubs on a proposal for clubs to decide on membership in committees according to Rule 30 of this Rules of Procedure. I don't think there's any dilemma here, it's my opinion that there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure because instead of the first commission there could have been another. That's my personal opinion. Thank you. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8857	Thank you. Just a minute, Denisa. We have already registered three people for the discussion Erić, Hadžiahmetović, Ajanović. Here, you didn't, you're giving up. Hadžiahmetović and Ajanović. Here you go. So Bećirević, is the discussion Denise? Then Bećirević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8858	Here is the need to remind you, respecting the really need, perhaps, to perform the necessary alignments, but to remind you, therefore, to put the Rules of Procedure, as a possible, or violation of the Rules of Procedure, aside from making sure that it is not the Rules of Procedure, watched as a whole, broken. However, I do need to mention that the proposal for the composition of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives at an extended meeting, i.e. three meetings of the College, has been established as a whole. So, I'm asking you not to look at any committee here individually but the whole package, the whole package is responding to, let's say, to the spirit of what was meant to be achieved, and if we're going individually by committees, I'm going to ask you not to give priority to any commission because here they're all equally important. I have to react, indeed, to one relationship with the Committee on Gender Equality as if it were irrelevant, less important, and not repeat the argument that I highlighted here today, on another occasion. But what I want to mention, uh, I'm a little surprised and those who were, were part of the majority that agreed on this proposal. Listen today, listening to some new criteria today that bid on all of this, and I want to remind you, we've been discussing this three times. If we're really going to achieve something better in half an hour I am for it, but I'm not sure that after three discussions, three meetings of the Colleges in an extended composition, unfortunately, I also have to mention to some fellow MPs that at one of those meetings, outside their club, no one was present, that if we reach a better solution in half an hour, I am in agreement. But I ask you to observe the proposal as a whole, not the individual commission per commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8859	Thank you, we have a replica, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8860	kolegica Hadžiahmetović, apparently, adapted her discussion to my comments. Little note, Branka correct me if I'm wrong, you're not in charge of the Rules of Procedure, you're in charge of this House, are you? So you've taken on one lot, so you're invited to interpret. And you've interpreted something that, from what you've interpreted, was reading, and from that reading, I understood what I was saying, which is that the proportional force of the parties in committees refers to the level of each commission, and you claim on the basis of the sum of all commissions. And then to support that interpretation of you, for which you are not authorized, colleague Hadžiahmetović explained to us that all commissions are equally important. 76 In view of the fact that at the previous agenda, she expressed her concern over the failure to comply with the Gunder Act, a law that wanted to compensate somehow. And now she's giving us a lecture on the importance of these commissions. Then by your will, as my friend Beriz would say, by political will of both the Azra Party for BiH, what a strange coincidence they have decided in the Commission, to leave, for foreign affairs, and for the gendarme there is no one, none, since it is the same. Well, I believe, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8861	A little patience, Mr. Lagumdžija. Stay around these comments where the party, women, etc. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8863	What a party, women. So, I think, Mr. Belkić, therefore, there is no replica of another species, but the replica is very clear because it spoke to me about the importance of all commissions. There's a lecture here about the gendarme and the misunderstanding of women. We, for the sake of few women in the Council of Ministers, are against, they are in favour, then explain that the Jack is very important, and they will not be in the Jacket Commission, and they will be in international relations. And as he said, as an expression of political will, we would be eliminated from constitutional amendments. Well done.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8864	Thank you. Let's make a deal. I don't mind, but we have three reported, we have two other debaters Ajanović and Bećirević reported. Let's go, Ajanović and Bećirević. Are the replicas of Jozo? Here's the replica, replica Dolić, whether it's a replica, excellent. Dolic replica, Križanovic replica, please, why not.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8865	But you see the deal was working at the first meeting, with these criteria that we were talking about that we had established as very correct for a quality work. It's said, let's get the strongest game right, she has to choose. Eh, the first one, Izetbegović gets up and says in the Constitutional Commission let's not touch that. The next in power was BiH, SNSD and SDP. So, the fourth party has applied by force for its member to the Constitutional Commission, as the first commission to come. We had it as work material until the last session when it was thrown out, you know. So let's not speak now all commissions are the same, here we'll apply the power criterion, here we won't, here we'll apply some criteria of national relations, balances of others etc. So it's a matter of principle. Are we going to respect, so it's essentially the Rules of Procedure again, the business provision, or are we going to show a further parliamentary majority here? It's all for nothing that I'm saying, if you say, "Don't make the sick majority decide," we're done, brother, and we're done. But to know what we're doing, nothing more. Neither can we, we are 77 aware that we cannot change it and say again, as aware, responsible Members of Parliament, who are building their working relationship with Parliament except for our fellow Lagumdžija, we will accept the schedule and work consciously in the committees that are being assigned to us. But for the record, that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8866	Thank you, Mr. Križanović, Mr. Dolić, for the same replica, which is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8867	The replica of Mrs. Azra. There is no doubt that the Rules of Procedure have been broken and that the principles and arrangements with the Expansive College have been violated. If not, explain to me in which way, by the mathematics of three clubs with three representatives have one, five members of the working bodies, one six, one seven, come on, my suggestion is, let me, if the break has already been asked to try to sit down this extended college, to try to correct this and make it a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8868	Thank you very much. To make it possible for the people who signed up. Mr. Ajanović, Mr. Bećirević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8869	I have the impression here today that the minority is harassing most of the time, but that's to tell you honestly, inadmissible, it's an inadmissible team before various nebulises were brought up today. I didn't want to replicate because certain things are, uh, at least they should be known, who deals with politics, who was in some parliament, that political will in every parliament is the most important thing. And when political will is created, it is determined from top to bottom. And since there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure here, because it's clear who knows Bosnian or Serbian or Croatian, it doesn't matter, because that's what it says, it's clear as day that this proposal is fine. And secondly, I'm surprised that the proposal came in like this, and that it was attended by all the club members and that everyone, and now these club members are trying to impose the will of the minority on the majority. I am absolutely against the fact that, in general, a pause is being given, that it is at all discussing it, rather than joining the vote and determining these, these proposals that have been made. And that doesn't take a lot of people to wonder. In many parliaments, constitutional... the opposition gets one or none place. That's for sure. Don't laugh, ba, so I was in 10 parliaments, maybe long before you were, yes, and therefore, I was also in Parliament when your party ruled and I know how it was set up. So it's also a fact of one thing. Parliament needs an opposition to get certain things and it has, and it has got what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and whether someone interprets it one way or another. I suggest that we, that we don't move on to 78 alignments because it was agreed by the College with club presidents and that we don't waste time because today we've lost at least three hours of talking things that aren't at all, have nothing to do with putting the government together.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8870	Thank you, Mr. Ajanović, we have, just a little bit, I haven't heard, Bakire, and the replica, Mr. Izetbegović, is a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8871	There's something going on about how, uh, we made a deal there, so today we're talking to each other. So, let me remind you, if you all knew, I was in favour of SDP entering the Constitutional Commission before the parties that have only three MPs, I was in favour of it, really, so I was in favour of this committee that controls the OS being a Hrvat because we have a Bošnjak, this security minister, we have a Serbian prime Srbin, and it would be logical to be a Hrvat. After all, we didn't make a deal, but we said we were going inconsistencies, but we didn't agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8872	Exactly, I have failed to say that the president of the SDP Club did not accept such a proposal, that is of course correct, and did not attend the president of the Club Mr Dolić and You did not attend the last session of the Extended College, unfortunately, you were invited. But here's to allowing the debater Denis, who, uh, applied and I'm asking you to conclude, this discussion and to decide on Mr. Izetbegović's request, that is, whether we're going to take a break or we're going to plead. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8873	I think that, with regard to the fulfillment of this composition of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives, it is necessary to try to respect the will of the citizens. To respect the will of the citizens, it is enough to look at this Article 30. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, paragraph 1, which is quite clear. Filling the committees is proportional to the size of the House's club members. I don't know if I need an extra interpretation for this. Well, let's not go any further. Now, here we should really respect the fact that SDP is the fourth-in-a-kind political party in this House and I think that everything else would be a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure. I even suggest the following: if we don't know what practice is in other parliaments, I think we can take a 30-minute break. In preparation for this session, I accidentally took a look at the websites of other parliaments, here we go from the neighborhood: Serbia, Montenegro and Croatia. See if, for example, the opposition party in the Serbian parliament is in Montenegrin, Croatian. Did any ruling team or majority, in one of those three states, make this system the way you propose here? And we can still look at it, it's no problem to connect and see what's going on in Austria, etc. Furthermore, I would ask you to use the word 79 when you get it, and especially not to make insinuations, I speak very clearly, all the countries in the neighborhood, and I call on other Europeans, and I call on everyone, if we need to look at what's wrong with us, we say we want good news from BiH. So come on, if we don't already know what, let's see what the neighbours are doing, what Europe is doing. Furthermore, I'm asking why someone is afraid of this one member of the SDP on this committee. What's so controversial? Here's the thing. If you're admitting to yourself that we should relax things, let's relax them. Indeed, any objective would not cause any problem if one political party that has, say, twice as many MPs as some who are here had one member of the commission. Except if you're really too afraid of a man from the SDP being on that committee, especially because we of the SDP have quite a laxative situation. Well, the only one in this House can tell you this too, whether you need either a Srbin, or a Hrvat, or a Bošnjak. Whoever you want, we'll give you on that committee. I think the strongest opposition party should be presented on this committee and that this should be of greater interest to you in a position than to us in the opposition. And, indeed, I suggest that in this pause we agree correctly and that, with regard to these committees, at least we respect the political will of the citizens and respect that relationship of the power that is here. And the Rules of Procedure, I'm talking about it again, will guide us to make these commissions proportionately deployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8874	Here I can conclude that there are no more reported but obviously necessary, I have consulted my colleagues from the College, and I can argue that we did not violate the Rules of Procedure by this solution that we have proposed, this solution that we have proposed. Who thinks it's different can check it out, of course. We, therefore, responsibly argue that this proposal, which is before you, through the participation of the SDP MPs, did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Of course, we don't doubt that you think otherwise, but here we are, saying that we didn't violate the Rules of Procedure with such a proposal. Let's get this break straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8875	It should not be declared for about 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8876	Mr. Lagumdžija, no, do you want a replica or a discussion? Here you go. You may disagree with us, I don't know what the replica is for. I just gave you the attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8877	I really know you as a much more patient man.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8878	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8879	This, therefore, for the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as you know, is authorized only by this House. You have the majority to interpret what you want. We have read in all three of these languages that are understood, because we did not need the translator, but obviously we need a translator between you and the opposition, not between Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak within the government and opposition. So we read the same sentences, you read the same sentences, you claim it's not, we claim it's okay. I would just like to ask you, Mr. Belkić, that you, as chairman, here,abstrate for a moment the Rules of Procedure, you will interpret most of the votes and determine the principle of one for later. By the way, I was gallant at first, so I told you about that infamous Alijansa that whoever took power, the ruling parties took all the commissions, and that's not true either. Even the Constitutional Commission was led by a man from the opposition, ustavnopravni from the opposition, the man led during this infamous, as some like to say, the Alliance, led this most important commission. But come on. My question to you, Mr. Belkić: Is it a reflection of the political will of the ruling majority that the SDP has no one in the Constitutional Commission, here is your Rules of Procedure. Is it your will that there is no one from the SDP in the Constitutional Legal Commission, Ad.1 and Ad.2, is it a reflection of your political will that we do not have any chairman of the commission that belongs to us as the fourth party in mathematical size, as my colleague Zorić would say, so you decided that all six commission presidents belong to the parties who have fewer votes than we do?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8880	Mr. Lagumdžija, you answered the line and now you're following me here and you're asking me questions, no, no, no, you're answering the line. And I answer to you now. I can't think of an answer to your question here, that's great. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8881	The Honorable Chairman, every time in this House when an incorrect statement is made, and especially when accused by the College of working past the Rules of Procedure, I will stand up and correct it, and this time, Article 20, of the College's duties, I will read that: under h) their decision on the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, until the question is regulated by the House. Mr Lagumdžija this College interprets the Rules of Procedure until it regulates the House, please do not give false allegations here for people who do not know this Rules of Procedure. And I ask you to take a break, and you friends, for those attitudes you want to put on the Constitutional Commission, look elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8882	Here, well, of course, why don't you go ahead, nobody defends you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8883	Just once again to read, and that says nicely: filling out commissions, means each of the commissions, so that's, it's clean, it's painful, it fills, it says, proportionally the size of clubs and other conditions that are very important, don't ignore it, the commission, every commission, so the other is a condition, so people, where you are from, ba, ma commission, commissions one and 81 of them and another, and another of which are two-thirds of the members, and this is a condition. Therefore, all of this must be taken care of. No problem at all. We now need to decide whether the SDA Club is looking for a break, if it has the effect of what we've been saying, for the record, it has, it goes, it doesn't, vote and it's over. And it's over, but we got the answers and thank you for that, so don't fight for nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8884	Mr. Bešlagić, Mr. Bećirević, may I have your attention, please, just a little patience? Mr. Becirovic is a replica to Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8885	Here I would remind you to try to stick to those promises we heard in the Prime Minister's exposé a month ago and today. I quote the prime minister: "I expect a very constructive contribution from the opposition to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly because I have always felt that the opposition should be an important factor in BiH's further progress." On the trail of this, Mr. Živković, it is quite clear what we should be doing on this committee, unless you want to, and I don't think that it is of any interest to us, to radicalise the opposition to the end and to make a possible state that is not appropriate to be in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8886	Here, Mr. Živković, incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8887	Mr. Bećirović, I want to ask you to follow what we say here. You can't ask us for support if you say you're breaking the Rules of Procedure. If you had been to an extended college, if Mr. Jozo Križanović had given you our views, you would have known that I personally, and the president of my club, had advocated that Mr. Jozo Križanović be in the Constitutional Commission. That's why I told you, the way you're asking us to do it is wrong. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure here. Comrade and gentlemanly and any other deal,...you'll find, but the way you started looking here, it wasn't acceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8888	Yes, here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8889	Yes, it is. Mr. Živković, I mean, we've known each other long enough. It's a perfectly clear thing here. You can interpret, the will of the majority to interpret, but please, in future, if you have interpreted it as proportionate to the power of the commission, at the level of all commissions it must be proportionate to the strength, then please refer to all commissions also 1/3 from the entity, and no, you have 1/3 from the entity made sure that it is in each commission. So I think it's on the Commission level, but you can't say this part of the sentence applies to all the committees together, it's party strength, and a third of the entity applies to each commission individually. It can't. Only I ask you to tell me because I don't want beriza, he doesn't want 82 answers, maybe a man doesn't know, you know, and you're competent to answer. Just tell me, does that mean that your interpretation implies that 1/3 of the entity is at the level of all committees together. Well, if it is, it's okay, there's no problem. Please, you know what I asked you. As soon as you don't know the answer, you won't answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8890	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8891	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8892	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8893	Mr. Lagumdžija, I hope we're at least done with one piece of work, which is that we're a member of 30. Rules of Procedure, here as the College interpreted. If you want to interpret the other members of the College, or members of the Rules of Procedure, well, in the same article, wait a break for the College to take a stand on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8894	Any more questions? We have Novaković, Mr. Novaković, registered for discussion. But here's the deal, uh, so, after Mr. Novaković's discussion... Mr. Izetbegović, do you stay on the proposal to take a break? Okay. So, after Mr. Novaković's discussion, after Mr. Novaković's discussion, we're going to take a half-hour break and call a session of the Expansive College, here at 2/2, I hope it's open. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8895	Okay, I, uh, thought I was discussing, but after this insistence of the SDA club on the break, then what I meant to suggest now doesn't make sense. In fact, we know that in the College, we have to make decisions by consensus. So if we don't have a consensus on the College, then we're simply spending half an hour needlessly. And we've already heard here from the College members that there will be no consent. So for this kind of, uh, interpretation. So I think we're losing an unnecessary half hour. After all, it is obvious that we will not reach consensus. But there's nothing, if SDA insists on doing business, it has to be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8896	I've already said that, I've declared a half-hour break. So, I invite the presidents of the clubs to a session of the Expansive College in Hall 2/2. 83 [[pause]] So, I owe you a little attention, please. I am obliged to inform you that we have held a session of the Expansive College. And in the shortest, unfortunately, I have to inform you that we have not reached agreement, that is, we have not found a solution, which would make these SDP participation initiatives realistic in terms of their participation in the Constitutional Commission. So, the Extended College has not reached a consensus on the composition of committees, primarily the Constitutional Commission and us, practically, remains to be declared to the House of Representatives on this proposal that we have. By the Party of Democratic Action having carried out one change that has not tangled other relations. So instead of Husein Nanić in the Constitutional Legal Commission, Mr Halid Genjac, and instead of Halid Genjac in the Foreign Affairs Commission, Husein Nanić. So, there's that proposal I read to you earlier that we should make known. Please take your seats. Any reports? Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Before we come to terms with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8898	I thank you, Mr. Belkić. Since we have protocol, please, two papers here, which talk about a proposal for the composition of permanent committees of the House of Representatives. My question, on one paper, exists on the side written, this one, which party belongs to the chairman. My question, is this also an integral part of the proposal, which party belongs to the chairman or are you leaving it completely? So that's one question, that's a question I'd like you to say, as a previous question so that I can then discuss, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8899	I tried, if you remember, that is to say, that you received a proposal without the nomination of the President of the Commission, because according to the Rules of Procedure, practically, commissions choose between, from their members, the chairman and two vice-presidents. Of course, we should not, this, run away from the truth that there are certain arrangements, or certain recommendations to members and prefer certain, uh, political parties when it comes to the positions of the chair. But it's not the job of this House of Representatives, it's the job, the commission's job, and consider it official. I read that proposal, if you like, before we plead once again to read it, with this amendment that I just told you. If there's no need, I suggest we plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8900	Wait a minute, I said
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8901	Here, no problem 84
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8902	So, in other words, this paper is protocold under 08.02.2007, where it says everything, it doesn't apply. So it's not the 8th, but we're pleading for this 9th, which is actually numbered by this change, the intervention that was, it was. I would ask you, therefore, to be very precise, I don't know how you thought to approach the vote when proposed to enter Mujo, come out Đoko or something like that. Now, to be very precise, I'd just like for the sake of the record to remind you, I'm sorry, I'm not going to use pessimistic terms, uh, with the Alijansa or with any party, wonderful, sweet, infamous. So, at the time of what the Alliance is called, I want you who were here, who you weren't then, and for the public to know, I'm only going to list from the eight committees, and then, and now, two, which would say, the most important commissions, that's seen from this schedule here, by some, let's call it an unwritten rule, were the Constitutional Commission and the Foreign Affairs Commission. Let me remind you that in the Constitutional Commission of the Alliance of 9, I repeat, of the 9, as is now, there were six MPs from the opposition at the time. Some say 5, so I apologize, here, so 5 because it's unclear where they were then. So 5 of the opposition and 4 of the ruling parties and the president of the Constitutional Legal Commission were from the opposition. When it comes to the Foreign Affairs Commission, the ratio was also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 5 opposition people, 4 from ruling parties who, indeed, had only 22 MPs at that time, and they were able to vote what they wanted, and the President of the Foreign Affairs Commission was from the opposition at the time. I wouldn't go any further if I didn't bother you. Just to see what the spirit of intolerance ruled. I would ask, so that we do not now go into the interpretations of the Rules of Procedure, that we have absorbed, we are all clear. We therefore propose, the SDP proposal is to place under regular number 7 in the Constitutional Legal Commission the name Jozo Križanović, and with respect to the principles that we have, between candidates number 7, 8 and 9, since their clubs have three MPs each, it would be unserious to say which of the three is, uh, excess. Or there is no one extra here, but therefore, we suggest that Jozo Križanović. Now I'd like to see how you technically meant to do it now. Here's me, the following principles I say, at regular number 7 Jozo Križanović. Are you gonna move this all the way down or throw out number seven, I don't know about that right now. We can talk about it if you ask us. This, and the SDP would, in fact, be the fact that the SDP man, so Jozo Križanović as head of the MPs' club in front of the SDP, we offered all the variants to align the national structures, this, that, entities, etc. So, in order not to do that now, we as the man who is the head of our club and we think, the Commission with the highest dignity in this House and with the greatest importance, we want the head of the SDP Club to propose to that club and we no longer treat this as a business issue because there is no need anymore. But we are treating as a question of the act of political will of those who have a majority here, whether or not Parliament wants to be properly represented here, or whether this is your message to the majority of parliament from the SDP that we should stay away from constitutional reforms, that you take matters further into your own hands, which we also respect. There. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8903	If you'll excuse me, just two things. So the proposal isn't fully figured out. As I understand it, you are merely suggesting that Mr. Križanović take his place in the Constitutional Legal Commission in position 7, not entering into who will not be on the Constitutional Commission. So it's very difficult to formulate the motion to vote because we don't know who won't be. That's one thing. Therefore, this proposal should be brought to an end. And the second thing, when it comes to constitutional-legal changes, i.e. constitutional changes, etc., I would really not, uh, introduce it in the context of this debate. I really assure you that this has nothing to do with it, that we don't remember how anyone acted, etc. about that, and I didn't say anything special, I just told you not to bring it into that context. But here, let's try to make this proposal a little more concrete, bring it all the way in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8904	As much as it is
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8905	Well, it wasn't, it wasn't complete, Martine. I don't know what a man's suggesting. The man suggests that Jozo Križanović be in the Constitutional Commission at number 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8906	So let me be very clear. You can say, if you want, at number four, too. Why? Because what order it was. First he gets the biggest party, that's the SDA, first place. Secondly, the BiH Party, by size, then the third place SNSD, the fourth place gets SDP or whoever has a ratio like us, and that could be SDA, but actually, you can't, you have, I forget everything that you have 9 and not 10, I apologize. So, so you can put us on number four if it makes you feel any better, if we've made things simple for you. So when I say the number you're comparing this to 2 from the party. We think that, our place belongs to us, conditionally speaking, the fourth, to be even clearer now, Berize, belongs to us fourth place in the Constitutional Commission according to what we consider to be the principle. Now, I suggest you make it clear to me, then to make it clearer, we have a few options. If we weren't to drag you in right now, if you, uh, in principle, this principle actually shows that you have to find one, you should find one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8907	So we had an extended college of Goldie and we tried, we tried on that subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8908	How can you procedurally, how can you procedurally, Mr. Belkić? Then you declare our amendment, our amendment is to make Jozo Križanović a member of 86 Constitutional Commissions, it is an amendment. And when it's adopted, if the amendment is passed, then you're still worried about who's number 10, don't you think?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8909	Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8910	So here we heard Mr Lagumdžija's concrete proposal, but we also heard a debate at the Expansive College that preceded an hour-long debate to come up with a package and compromise that can satisfy the minimum of interest and I will not comment on this proposal. He really didn't deserve to comment, but the point was that he could only open the package if we had an agreement. I mean, so you'll see that I'm proposing a replacement for a single membership that has been reduced by some other basis to one of the parties anyway. But it's not, it doesn't matter now, but here we had the opportunity to come to an agreement on an extended college. I also suggested that we come to an agreement, but that would mean other rotations. We only have the opportunity to make a statement about this proposal that we have. Any introduction of amendments, I'm afraid, actually opens one, uh, avalanche of possible issues that we can't solve at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8911	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Is there anyone else who can answer that? Dr. Crescent. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8912	Here I will say that I too, who felt that there is a good enough will that, not only the SDP, I will not say SDP but also some other parties, given the specificity of the period ahead and, of course, the importance of participation and positions and opposition and all parties etc. in a story that is likely to follow. At this meeting, I asked, among other things, whether there was a chance to change the Rules of Procedure so that we could eventually co-opt, or expand the number of members of the Constitutional Commission. The answer, of course, was, not for one reason, which is necessary for the change of Rules of Procedure and for the establishment of the House of Peoples. Here you are, understanding the argument, not only of the SDP, but of the whole and other parties that do not participate in this, I urge that, as soon as the House of Peoples is established, both colleges, both homes put the Rules of Procedure before them and possibly consider this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8913	Thank you. Is there any more, Denis Bećirović?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8914	Since, before the break, we didn't have this information as was the composition of the Constitutional Legal Commission, here at the time and the Alliance, and if we had heard that the opposition had more members of the Constitutional Commission at the time of the Alliance than this commission, indeed, I think it would be realistic that at least 2 members in this assembly would be of opposition. So, another candidate from the SDP. Otherwise, indeed no one in this country can understand the policy you are leading from the BiH Party. You, the fourth political party in power in this country, in this House, want to prohibit the entry into one Constitutional Commission, and on the other hand, you have done everything to bring people who have failed in the elections into one of the homes of this Parliament. Come on, though, let's get this all serious together and at least respect each other, if we can't agree to each other, to respect what the voters said in the election.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8915	Well, here we are trying to respect what voters said in the election, Mr. Bećirović. They said what they said and I would ask you not to leave the agenda, so here you are still insisting on the proposal. I make this proposal that Mr. Lagumdžija has formulated as some kind of amendment, etc., it is incomplete Zlatko, incomplete. So for the simple reason you're proposing, this one, you're proposing to join a new member of the Constitutional Commission, and that's why the Constitutional Commission gets 10 members. She's number nine. If we understand each other. So, we tried on an extended college of all these variations and proposals, we didn't reach consensus, there was no willingness of any political parity that is participating in the Constitutional Legal Commission, for concession, and unfortunately, in addition to all will and attempt, we now have the situation we have. We have a proposal as it is, and you will vote your relationship to the composition. Well, there's no reason for Zlatko to laugh. So the proposal is incomplete. I'm asking you to supplement it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8916	My proposal is perfectly clear to my kolega Belkić that the SDP belongs to the Constitutional Commission at the level of one member and that it is, in fact, an act of this Parliament's political will. We believe that, therefore, that Parliament should declare whether Jozo Križanović is, just a little bit, please, who does not, who, I apologize, what is obvious, that the proposal does not have a political will, that Jozo Križanović is in Parliament, is in the commission of this ustavnopravni Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8917	The proposal you have, I clearly answer, has no political will for the SDP to have a member in the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8918	So let it be seen in the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8919	Well, you can see in the proposal and the unpreparedness of an enlarged college to change the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8920	Just a minute, Berize. I'm sorry. So, I think my proposal is complete and clear, to say the amendment, we suggest that Jozo Križanović be a member of the Constitutional Commission and that you make it clear, therefore, that SDP is a member of the fourth political party and Jozo Križanović. If you think it's incomplete, that we should say and who needs to come out, will it be complete? So that's just the problem, right? Well, no problem, then, the proposal is, therefore, for each member. Here, you see how much support he has and it's not a problem, we can come here anyway. So very simple. The next logic, that we don't lie here, is perfectly clear that here, if we talk about the strength of clubs, then we have a problem that we have, conditionally speaking, three clubs of the same strength. Our principle is that the opposition should be represented in a representative number, then we think that of the two parties, the two clubs that belong to the ruling parties that have the same number of MPs, the question is then very clear about whether it is one or the other club of these two. If you want me to further formulate it as a suggestion. So my suggestion is that the party that gives the man with the smallest number of votes be, and we can suggest that. So, Jozo Križanović instead of Martin Raguž. Here's the deal. There you go, there you
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8922	Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8923	Here's Lagumdžija's tripping for three hours to say what's the problem. I've been to two extended colleges and it's been agreed that, of the 90 commissions to be selected, here tonight, here at the House of Representatives, in the 12 commissions, the SDP belongs to 10. And I don't know how the SDP has the right to choose which commission they won't choose, and someone else doesn't have the right to choose anything. SDS, the Mixed Club should fill with, and other mixed, just those nine people would satisfy, according to you, both entity and every other one, this criterion, that they fill this Committee on Gender Equality in which everyone swears, and no one will. And as for Mr Lagumdžija's mathematics, in the dark, indeed, time for BiH, Mr Lagumdžija has calculated with his comrades, the flocks, however you will, that 14 out of 30 majority in the House of the Federation Parliament and has not named only 2 delegates in the House of the Peoples of BiH but all 5. It's his math. And I think, if we're going to propose here this way, then I'm going to have as many combinations of these 90 numbers, I'm going to have so many suggestions. I'm going to suggest that instead of the first, it be the seventh, instead of the seventh, instead of so on. I mean, if the Expansive College didn't make a deal, then no more amendments, my people, what amendments. If he wants a party, me and my colleague Raguž are from the same party, we have four 90 memberships, so many of us, and a little more belongs. And he has no right to mention other political options this way because he and the SDP Club got 10 seats in 12 commissions. Listen, I can't be in every one. Just like we 89 can only be at 4, and we can't be at all 12. How does he think that, if we could choose. That principle did not, we did not want to violate because we had, on occasion, agreed at the first session, when Mr Izetbegović was appointed, he suddenly said all 11 proposals, which we accepted, crossed over. I guess at least the 21st time, uh, the proposal would come to choose, not the last one. Let's not play again now and open the package, if we get into that zone, then, I'm afraid we're not going to achieve anything, but that, brother, we're going to vote this proposal, who's against it, who's against, who's in, who's in, if most of it is in, the proposal is over and over. The commissions don't have to be involved. That's what Lagumdžija proved in the last term, that he only participates as journalists paint, and in the work of this house, so he was fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8924	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Bahtić answered. I thought you had your hand up. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija. Wrong. No, he didn't, he raised his hand. No, Bog forbid. No, no, man, I thought he raised his hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8925	As soon as I mentioned myself. No, no, the task is not completed. Okay, well, aside from that, maybe it's a good idea to have a little fun after all this time, we've been working really hard, we've done a big job, the Council of Ministers, don't let it get out of hand. We even missed it, there. So let me be very clear. If the problem is that the SDP has 10 seats, we're ready to, say how much 1,2,3 we're going to withdraw, any of us, from any commission we're going to withdraw. No problem at all. Wait a minute. So there's no problem. We're even put on some commissions because no one wanted to, so you put us in but there's no problem. So if that's the problem, fine. But I have very clear, I would ask you, procedurally. So I have laid out all the principles, act, party number four, act of political will, we are a mixed club, ethnically as well as this mixed one, 2 Hrvat, 1 Srbin from two political parties. Since they're objectively the most mixed club, and at the border of three people, we think they'd rather talk to the man from our club than the club. We even went out to meet so that the ethnic balance wouldn't break and, therefore, I would ask that procedurally, since procedurally now... it's all clear. The amendment is my specific, since you said it was, I really tried to get you out. The amendment is, let's make a statement about the amendment first. This has always been the case because I assume, the amendment to the material under regular number, adopted on 08.02.2007, 0150.1.15.3/07 u, Arabic 1, Constitutional Commission under regular number 7 words - Martin Raguž changes with the word - Jozo Križanović. That's the amendment. I'm ready for it in the form of an amendment, and I'm asking you to make your point. If the amendment fails, then you're going to do this and I think that, here, I was just helping solve the procedural thing. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8926	What Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija is pushing for, it's good to see it in this House. And I knew it would come out this way and, personally, I could deal with this situation because I'm not here personally or personally. Unfortunately, he cannot hide neither his personal dimension, nor his frustration, nor the way he treats multiethnicity and national legitimacy in BiH. I do not want to go back to all the issues he has raised through the electoral process and the things that have been happening in BiH. It's his right. But look what's going on here. It is quite certain here that the Constitutional Commission plays one of the key roles in what BiH expects as a European country, a country that will treat both citizens and people equally and ensure a balance between the two principles. And it wasn't by chance he chose this as a method and it wasn't by chance this scenario led like this, to leave everything, to treat this amendment only.. Deep political background, I'm responsible for your claim. Whoever is ready to enter this game of his, feel free to plead here. I don't think membership on the committee represents anything. I am the only one in this commission, although I have of all Croatian representatives the greatest legitimacy in these elections achieved, directly. So you know. And if these aren't enough arguments that the package isn't opening, and I was offering options yesterday and Mr. Križanović and some others to harmonize the package. It has continued to avoid it, and now this matter is being raised in a moment. I don't think it corresponds with any argument of principle. If you want the Constitutional Commission would have to include all parties, all clubs if you want dialogue and consensus on the Constitution, that is the criterion prescribed by both the Council of Europe and the European Parliament and is it logical that in each commission there must be 2 from one party, from one club and with these important and sensual issues to be no one. That's what he wants. That I really think, I really don't think she can handle, here's this, no serious or reasoned debate, but here's the thing. Let's wait for this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8927	Thank you, Mr. Martina. Mr. Zorić, did you answer? It's not. Explanation,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8928	I am, the next example of Honorable colleague Hadžiahmetović, who is trying to meet, I am ready, here, to suggest on the trail of what Mr. Raguž is, as a working conclusion, that we specifically form a commission that will deal with only constitutional reforms, which will be, and we are prepared. If that's the answer. But I'm talking about the Constitutional Commission of this house. Nothing else. So, if you have, and we are willing to support it, Mr. Raguž, to form a special commission with representatives of all parties, which will be the widest filter for further dialogue, if it can help you. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8929	About that, by that. Mr. Bećirović Denis answered. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8930	I think Mr. Raguž, with his discussion, has helped us most now. He literally said the Constitutional Commission has a key role to play. If so, what is, then, disputed is that the fourth key party in this House is in the commission and the only multiethnic one in full. I think it's necessary for this Parliament, and there's really no problem for us to end it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8931	Thank you, Mr. Bećirović. Replica, so there is, is there a replica with you, Mr. Križanovic?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8932	It is. Uh,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8933	He also has Martin's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8934	You see, I mean, first of all, there's always a package being mentioned here. I've been on the Expansive College, and I've asked someone to explain to me what this package is. I don't even understand what the package is. What's this package about? I said I realized that the package of principles we were working on was this thing. It's some kind of package. And as a result of these principles, applied or not applied, we have come to this package as it is. And, of course, it needs to be unpacked because it's no good. And what we're afraid of now is some kind of unpacking package. What package? I don't understand. To explain the word to me, what is this package, what does it contain? And secondly, here I am, for the fifth year, today I have said it, this is the second time I repeat, I personally have not experienced such a political insult as from my colleagues Raguž. So my candidacy in the Constitutional Commission would be a political danger.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8935	Step away from the microphone
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8936	No, no, please. So I would be a danger as a SDP-ovac, as a Hrvat, to the Croatian people in the Constitutional Commission. First of all, I think there's a huge, unnecessary importance attached to this committee. What is it, the Constitutional Commission and a member of the Constitutional Commission who has no license to be a Hrvat from some here who are fighting for what he would pose this political danger to the Croatian people, in order to be a member of the Constitutional Commission. Now, if this is how we started it, I'll give up this proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8937	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. I'm really asking you, here you go, Mr. Martina Raguž. Correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8938	I was talking about the SDP club's right to join this committee. And I said, if it fits, it doesn't have to be Jozo, it could be Denis, Selim, Zlatko and our distinguished colleague Mirjana. Here, it's no problem. In that sense, I say, if there's a problem because of some structure that this home cares about, here we are giving up, it could be someone else. It's a principled stand for what's rightfully ours. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8939	You see, I think things should go back to the level they are at, just the representatives of political parties, or club presidents, etc. in three, four times, they simply failed to reach consensus, did not reach agreement that the SDP would be given a seat in the Constitutional Commission. And that's a fact. And that's a fact. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8940	So... I can check and because of the stenograms, I'm saying this, so in no word did I say that the appointment of a representative of the SDP to the Constitutional Legal Commission would be a political danger. And this is, look how it manipulates, it's a traditional pattern. I said, therefore, and I called on all parties to participate in the Constitutional Legal Commission and I felt that it should be good, that all clubs, to seek dialogue and consensus and that is the difference between this approach advocated by the SDP. Throw only this out and solve all the problems relative to the whole package, and the package is that SDP has 10 seats. And another thing, Mr. Becirevic, is that I did not say for a moment that the Constitutional Commission, in relation to other committees, is the most important, but in the constitutional reform process, that it has an important role. So give a little discipline and sensitivity and arguments here in this process.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8941	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? If he doesn't, we have the next situation. So, in relation to the proposal we should make ourselves known, because we have not reached agreement on its change in the Expansive College. I have a concrete proposal that Mr. Lagumdžija put out here at the House of Representatives, and I think we should make a statement about him. So I count that the parliamentary majority will be determined for the simple reason that this is her proposal. Of course, of course, parliamentary majority. 93 Therefore, Mr Lagumdžija suggests the following - that in the Constitutional Commission, I am talking about the proposal that is before us, that Mr Jozo Križanović is being co-opted in the Constitutional Commission, instead of Mr Martin Raguž. Who's up for this proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8942	Speaking from a place you don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8943	I've been very clear and precise, Mr. Lagumdžija. So, I'll put it on, I'll do it one more time. So, I put forward a proposal by Mr. Lagumdžija to Raguž Mr. Jozo Križanović in the Constitutional Legal Commission, proposed to the Constitutional Commission. Who's up for this proposal? Vote now. So it's a total of 11, versus 14. He didn't get the necessary majority. So I can conclude that this proposal has not passed. So, I would like to invite the MPs, if I could have your attention, please, if I could have your attention, please, Mr. Raguž, if I could have your attention. I call on MEPs to declare a proposal for the composition of the Permanent Committees of the House of Representatives. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8944	Business intervention. Business intervention, I'd just like to ask you, uh, since anxiety is unnecessary here, I think you'll be working very quickly now. We, we think that this is an act directed against both the Rules of Procedure and us and an act of political will that speaks very clearly where this is going and we will spare you our presence, without us you will continue this. We will, as Mr. Križanović said, do we, to work where it is arranged. Thank you very much. Let me, don't ask for a break for five minutes, let's go out, then keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8945	Of course, we won't ask for a break. It's your decision. Are you asking for a re-election? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8946	... If you're expressing yourself, we're ready to vote, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8947	Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8948	Jozo, let's just vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8949	Please take your seats. Mr. Izetbegović expressed his doubts about voting in the Rules of Procedure. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8950	According to the Rules of Procedure, he's entitled to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8951	Mr. Novaković. We'll do it again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8952	I want to ask this chairman until when can there be any doubt about the vote? Last time, we had our suspicions even after the last three points, so we voiced our doubts, and we voted again on what we voted before the three points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8953	Well, I think this suspicion has been expressed within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8954	Let me, I totally understand, just let me say, I think we're opening practice this time. You, Mr. Chairman, have come to the conclusion and no one would mind when you found the results of the vote. You also gave the vote, so you put the motion to the vote, and that's when the time has passed. So, no more voting reservations. I don't mind you, doing whatever you do here,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8955	But Mr. Novaković, I'm asking you to really, no doubt about anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8956	Suspect! What if tomorrow Mr. Izetbegović raises his suspicions? What if he says after the next dots? 95
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8957	I think at a reasonable time he intervened.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8958	Well, last time I did, I say last time we had three points of the agenda expressing doubts, so most of them thought it might vote and vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8959	I'm not defending Izetbegović or anyone. I'm trying to maintain the atmosphere, to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8960	Well, I'm not talking about Mr. Izetbegović, I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure and I think it'll be a violation of the Rules of Procedure if you make it possible. That's what I'm talking about, not Mr. Izetbegović. He asked for it. I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8961	I don't think I'm going to hurt the Rules of Procedure if I repeat my vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8962	I just warned, of course, you think what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8963	Please, please, get ready. So we're voting again on Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal. Vote now. I hope you all voted now. So maybe people voted differently, so I find that the proposal didn't go through. Any objections? There isn't. Thank you. So I'm saying Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal didn't go through. So, a little patience, a little patience. The SDP MPs' club does not want to attend the session any further. We'll keep working. We do. What, a break? When? Why not? What's the break for? Here you go. ________(?) How about a break? 96 I'll take 15 minutes off.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8965	Well, you see what we allow, Mr. Belkić. If I have to tell you, I know, but I have to tell you. They've been harassing us here for two hours, three hours, and now they're picking up and leaving. Is this democracy? [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8966	Take a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8967	Mr. Chairman, I will refrain from the political assessment expressed here, but one thing I ask you to do is to be correct with the MPs. That's what we call, mildly speaking, harassing an MP. Respect for the Rules of Procedure. And to be at least collegiate, what we say in the official place that we respect it. All we can do is work normally. Here, I'm not even getting into the attitude review. I suppose it is collegiate to respect one’s position that we will walk with that attitude, that the other MPs count on that attitude. That's a technical question. So we can't do things differently. We asked for it today. Here's this fellow who came out, the bottom line is that something else we agreed on was being abused here, and that's it, it's not collegiate. I'm not getting into the attitudes at all. It's the only place I'm asking you to be able to do normal work as people. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8968	Okay, thank you, Mr. Kalabić. I'm also sorry if there was a bit of awkwardness in holding the session, but really this, uh, atmosphere was that kind of nature. People wanted to say what they had, etc., I tried to make it possible for everyone and it was, uh, intention. So here we go. Practically, we should now declare a proposal for the composition of permanent committees of the House of Representatives. I suggest we make a statement in the package. I don't think there's any need to repeat this composition of committees that are proposed because I suggested them on two or three occasions. So, who is for the proposal to draw up permanent committees of the House of Representatives as is the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8969	...to get the cards out of these, they're gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8970	Cards should be removed of course, those who are not present. I'd like to ask professional services to do it before the vote. I thank you, Mr. Jovičić. So, I've calculated that every MP knows what to do. So, when he leaves the session permanently, he needs to take out the card, because of the quorum. Thank you very much. So, can we do it now? So, who's in favour of a proposal for the composition of permanent committees of the House of Representatives? Vote now. So we have a 26. From Federation 15, from KRS 11. Against one, restrained none. I find that we have adopted the permanent composition of the House of Representatives committees. Mr. Nanić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8971	I voted clearly for, it says there's someone else, this one. And maybe it'd be good to have that technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-09-0.u8972	I'm asking the service to see, uh, what's this about. So it's obviously a technical aspect. So watch the voting time. So when I say vote now, right behind it vote. So, may I have your attention, please? Here's to repeating the vote. Vote now. Make sure she's okay now? Nanić, is she all right now? I'm sorry, here, let's do it again. Let's do it one more time. Yeah, well, let's wait a little while, then. So we're going to go like this. I'll give, uh, a voter sign. I'm giving it now. Did that sign show up? Here, vote now. Is he all right? Here I am realizing that we have established the composition of permanent committees of the House of Representatives. Moving to point five, final point. So, Ad.5. Proposal for the establishment of permanent joint committees of both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly So in that part of 50% that's being filled out from the House of Representatives, I can say the same about the process that's been led, and about the composition of these commissions, as we had, as well as 98 for the previous commissions so I don't think there's any need to waste time, this is the proposal that, in some ways, is final, of course, and there's been observations about it. But here I propose that since we have not been able to change anything in the enlarged College, I propose that the House of Representatives be made known on this proposal for permanent, for the composition of the permanent joint committees of the two homes of the Parliamentary Scepter of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that: The Joint Commission for Defence and Security, for the record: - Šefik Džaferović, - Vahid Hećo, - Drago Kalabić, - Jozo Križanović, - Mirko Okolić, - Vinko Zorić. Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for Oversight of BiH Intelligence and Security Agency: - Šemsudin Mehmedović, - Sadik Bahtić, - Slavko Jovičić, - Zlatko Lagumdžija, - Mirko Okolić, - Niko Lozančić. Joint Committee for Economic Reform and Development: - Bajazit Jašarević, - Mehmed Suljkanović, - Azra Hadžiahmetović, - Snježana Rajilić, - Hadži Jovan Mitrović, - Rifat Dolić. Joint Commission for European Integration: - Halid Genjac, - Šemsudin Mehmedović, - Azra Hadžiahmetović, - Milica Marković-Elez-Elez, - Branko Dokić, - Selim Bešlagić. Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs: - Remzija Kadrić, 99 - Ekrem Ajanović, - Sead Jamakosmanović, - Sadik Ahmetović, - Momčilo Novaković, - Vinko Zorić. Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics: - Sadik Ahmetović, - Azra Alajbegović, - Milorad Živković, - Denis Bećirović, - Niko Lozančić and - Sefer Halilović. Please, is there a discussion? There isn't. We're going to vote. Here, I'll give you a sign, so wait a moment. Vote. Now. So, the results of the vote are a total of 31 for. From Federation 19, from RS 12, v. 2, abstentioned nothing. I therefore conclude that the composition of the permanent and joint committees of both homes, i.e. the permanent and joint committees, was adopted in that section filled out from the House of Representatives. I, as chairman of the initiative, will organise the constituting sessions of these committees in the coming week to give the House the capacity to work, therefore, through commission stages and we will try to schedule the next session at the end of February. I thank you and apologize once again if there was a little and a bit of congestion and awkwardness in the work. Thank you all very much. The session was completed at 6:10 p.m. 100
