ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13864	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 16th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Please take your seats. In addition to the MPs at the session, I invited our regular guests: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who expressed interest in attending our meetings and representatives of certain NGOs. As a result of their reports, representatives of the BiH institutions' audit office, representatives of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens, representatives of the BiH Public Television Service, were invited to attend the meeting. Before we begin to discuss the agenda, ladies and gentlemen, because of tomorrow's holiday and religious obligations, the Kolegijum, the extended college has taken the view that we are working until 15 o'clock today, to try to realise today's agenda. In case that doesn't work, we'll set the session for another date. For this reason, we decided to correct today's agenda. However, before we move to a debate on the agenda and explain what has been agreed on at the extended college, I suggest we resolve one previous issue. It is the initiative of the honourable MP Mirjana Malić submitted at the last session. I recall, Mrs Malić suggested that the House make a decision that all MPs should single out at least 100 KM to support the Association for Care campaign on patients suffering from breast tumors. The Kolegijum took due note of this initiative, also held a meeting with representatives of this association, voiced the view that the House is not in charge of making a decision on the allocation of Members' money but that it is a voluntary decision for each individual individually. In that sense, we have made up a form that will be offered to Members to approve, by their signature, the allocation of a certain amount of their own income which would be paid to the appropriate account of the association mentioned. We, the three of us in the College, have already signed in front of us personally; and I think that Honorable colleague Malić is in agreement with this attitude and I hope that the other MPs will follow our example. Thank you. The difference in the proposed agenda that you received and this agenda that you now get just before the session is different in the following. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors, the requirements for review under urgent procedure were included in the agenda, which is the proposal of the Council of Ministers: - Proposal for a law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of BiH on the execution of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures and - Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Corrections under an emergency procedure. This is a request from the Council of Ministers, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. Here, I also received a report from the service that a total of 33 MPs are present. From Federation of BiH 21, from Republika Srpska 12, so we have a quorum, we can make a full decision. At the same time, the Enlarged College agreed to remove the following items of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH (According to the Commission's request to extend the deadline for discussion in the second phase of what the Kolegijum and approved); - Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, Nutrition and Rural Development of BiH; (We received a notice from the competent commission that the public debate was opened on this law and will be held next Monday); - A proposal for a law on wine, rakia and other wine products. (We haven't received a report from our commission because the procedure has not been completed. We are automatically removing this item of the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure); - Proposal for a Law on Customs Policy of BiH – Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs; (also, no procedure has been completed in the Commission); - Proposal for a Law on Internal Audit in the Institutions of BiH; (The Supervisory Commission for Finance and Budget has requested an extension of the time limit for the second phase. As you know, it was a public debate. It has a large number of amendments and the Commission has decided to request an extension of the deadline. And it was downloaded); - Report on the work of the Public Television Service of BiH; (Recommendation of the Commission responsible for Transport and Communications with the intention to wait for the end of the report on the same service's audit procedure to be completed; practicalally with two reports – Report of the competent Commission on Transport and Communications and the Commission's Report on Finance and Budget to discuss this item of the agenda at the next session); and finally: - Appointing members of the Ad hoc Commission on the designation of three Ombudsmans in the BiH Institution; (In the College, we had a draft amendment and addition of the Law on the Ombudsmans; but we decided to practically extend this draft to additional members, so that there would be a proposal for the next session, in front of the Kolegijum, the amendments and addition of the Law on this day, that we would have to the old rules on how to be completed). You've received a draft agenda on the bench and I'm now opening a debate on the agenda proposal. Who's this? Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13865	Thank you. With regard to the agenda, which we got before the start of the session, I want a few clarifications and a few suggestions to make. As part of today's 20th agenda, it is proposed: Consideration of the implementation of the programme objectives of seven political parties, so those who signed the programme objectives on 3 January of this year, with a specific reference to the definition of the operational plan for the implementation of that agreement. So it's proposed as the 20th item of the agenda. About that, I have one question to make it clear to me. Namely, when I proposed this initiative or this point at last session to be placed on the agenda, after the vote, the result was this: 19 MPs were "against" the proposal, 15 "for" and two "abstained". I got the list I got here. So I repeat: 19 MPs were “against, ” two were“ abstention, ” and 15 were “for. ” I don't mind, so I'm glad we're considering this, but I'm just reminding you that Parliament rejected my initiative at the last session. But as I support the idea that we are discussing this issue, I am obliged to remind you that an integrated proposal is to supplement the agenda, which I have provided to you in the College as well. As an integral part of the proposal for this agenda, it was also the following: Given the importance of the problem, the total stalemate of the reform processes in BiH, as well as the warnings of international representatives on the unsustainability of the existing situation, I suggest that this issue be the first point of the agenda of the 15th or the next 16th session of the House of Representatives. So, if we want to talk about this, and I think we should, that this is one of the essential issues of government functioning, especially at BiH level, I suggest that we accept the initiative in an integrated manner and that, after the minutes are adopted, the 2nd item of the agenda of today's session. That's the proposal, and I see you've accepted that proposal. So it's number one. Under number two, I think today's agenda should be extended with a new agenda point and I don't know why the College didn't already put it on the agenda, which is: The Return Initiative of the Football Club “Velez” to the stadium under the White Hill. As you know, that's the initiative I filed on September 6th of this year. A business-respected deadline, the Human Rights Commission was also manifested yesterday and all the conditions for this issue to be considered and Parliament to be declared at today's session. And third, what I want to say when formulating today's agenda is this: I am asking a question and I think that we should resolve this in principle, given that we know what the business provisions are and since we are all as MPs, we are all obliged to implement the House of Representatives decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly, and I remind you that we voted together in a decision on TV transmission two weeks ago. Is this session starting today in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and starting the way we all voted together on the proposal of the National Club and the SDP Club at the previous sessions, so it seems to me at the 14th session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13866	Thank you. Before the other MPs report for a debate on the agenda, I am obliged to make a few clarifications. In fact, I failed to say that the extended college agreed that parliamentary questions and answers in today's session would not be a part of the agenda because of what we agreed the session would take until 15.00 hours. Those four MPs who have written parliamentary questions can do so. However, this item of the agenda, in the extended college, was agreed... to be removed. And therefore, it is part of the answer to the Rules of Procedure, because this part of the agenda is not going to be today, and television teams are practically not required, and in line with the conclusion that this House has made that the entire session is being transmitted by BHT. We had a debate at the Extended College, the director of television came and explained the opportunities of the Public Television Service of BiH and, accordingly, we opened a practical debate that will happen again when the debate on the work of the Public Television Service of BiH comes on the agenda of the session, which we thought would be today. However, it was postponed for October 31st, so we will all be able to ask directly the people who are employed there: why can't they miss the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly that a practically entire session of this house is being transferred? On the other hand, honourable MP Bećirović said the vote was related to this agenda point. That was true. But the vote was, to read: After the debate, the chairman gave the first proposal to the honourable MP Denis Bećirović to put the item on the table. This meant that the previous session was meant to be placed as a part of the agenda, which was practically the way you voted and the number you put out then refused to be a part of the agenda, but they also accepted that it would be the point of the agenda of this session. For that reason, this item of the agenda is here today at the session. And here, I think we've been doing business. These were just further explanations. Who else is answering? Dear MP Bećirović has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13867	So, first about the TV feed. As Parliament, we have considered this issue and reached a conclusion and the question here today is whether we are able to make what we say, as the highest legislative body, and to implement it. You were talking about calling BHT, is that, the whole transmission has. We don't have any transmissions. So there would be progress if it could be up to 15.00, 15:30. At that same time, we also pointed to the fact that we are the only parliament in Southeast Europe and Europe that has no TV transmission and I must say that I have information that it is not about people, to BHT TV, so that they are working on BHT TV, but that it is about the pressure of certain political circles on BHT TV that make it impossible for BiH citizens to see what elected representatives have voted for. And to recapitulate and not open a big story – I ask that we assess whether the conclusions made by this highest legislative body can be realised or not. Do we have the capacity at least to ensure that all other European countries have provided. If the pre-war BiH Assembly had a TV transmission, if there was a TV transmission in the war, if it was '96, '97. And in '98, and we know what the political climate was like, was a TV broadcast, now that we have to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, when we have to go to Europe, this parliament has abolished TV transmission. If anyone's afraid of the fact that citizens see what their elected representatives are doing, that's another question, but I'm going back to the House of Representatives' conclusion. And the third thing is my proposal to supplement the agenda that I proposed on September 6th, and the commission was obvious. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13868	Thank you. Dear MP Izetbegović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13869	So I suggest we take point 20. ... The information on the implementation of the programme objectives of seven political parties is definitely taken off the agenda, not to be at today's session or at any of the upcoming sessions. I think if seven parties want to consider their programming goals, they should sit down as agreed. They didn't do it in front of this Parliament, I don't see the sense and reason to even consider... and I don't think it can be done in quality in front of this Parliament, right? So, please, let us be clear about this proposal... to definitely take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13870	Dear MP Bećirović has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13871	I must say I simply don't believe that colleague Izetbegović said what he just said. The whole country is blocked because of this and we have warnings from top European and world officials like BiH, and we have, so we are all in a blockade and position and opposition, and all citizens of this country just because what the ruling parties agreed on on January 3rd of this year is not realised. And asking to take it off the agenda is indeed an inappropriate situation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13872	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13873	So, on the basis of this, seven political parties' programme objectives, the Council of Ministers' programmes, the work of the Council of Ministers, the work programme of this body, and we can consider these programmes. We've adopted them here, we can consider them. If you're worried about the blockade, etc., I understand what you're worried about. Then consider these matters – the work of institutions of state rather than the programming goals of some parties. It was never done in parliaments, so I don't see what would be done this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13874	Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13875	... I, I would support Mr. Izetbegović's proposal for the next reason. In a week we'll have a joint session of both homes where we'll have a chance to ask all the ministers what they've done. And I think it's really an opportunity then to talk about this document that's signed 3. ... Today's debate would be just overlapping what we're about to say. 6 If we are not satisfied with the answers that we will get directly from those who have suggested these plans, then we can, eventually, and discuss these issues again. But what... which is why I reported first is the following. My proposal is to remove the draft law on the establishment of a criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, item 7, from the agenda from the formal ones, but, if you will, also essential reasons. For formal reasons, because this law overlaps well with the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures, and if something should, if something is not defined there and...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13876	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13877	...then it can be done through changes and additions to an existing law that treats this issue. The essential reason is that this law has indeed taken over many things that have already been defined there, and we will practically pass the law. I think it would be better to return this to the Council of Ministers and if they consider it a law, the existing BiH law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, incompletely to make changes and supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13878	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić... MP Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13879	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, on the trail of our agreement to try to do as rational and meaningful as possible, and in this case not to dispute the right of MPs and MPs to propose agenda points and especially initiatives, I think... we need to find some way because of the situations we come into, that it can't all come to the agenda. And, and with all due respect to the promoters, because, be careful, if political parties have formed institutions and whose programmes are discussed and work, we will discuss only one part of the political parties, why don't we say all the agreements and all the activities of the political parties of parliament put on the table of all MPs to see who does what. I think that's inappropriate. Political parties have an autonomous right to negotiate with each other, the other and the third and the inside. I don't mind. The SNSD voted precisely to see these things too, what we're wasting time on, for a TV broadcast. But I think we need to find a way, because why discuss the agreement of political parties that have formed institutions and in all these situations, when, when all other points are on the agenda, we have the opportunity to use this agreement against which I, indeed, have nothing but the point of the agreement itself, because tomorrow it will bring us that the co-operation agreement between the two local communities will put on the agenda of the state parliament. If the right is unlimited, then we will put the pre-election promise of a political party on the agenda in a local community. I think we need to find a way... to filter it all, with all due respect not to question the right of MPs to the initiative and... on the agenda. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13880	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13881	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, dear guests, I warmly welcome you all. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction as to why this session was even called today, for the reason that Bajram is coming to us tomorrow. I'm from Krajina, and I didn't let any Bajram in the Sanhedrin Bridge, and that's how it's gonna be tonight. So number one. And I congratulate all the citizens of Islamic faith on the coming Bayram holidays – Bajram Sheriff Mubarek Olsun! Now I'd like to talk about the agenda. I fully support my colleague Izetbegović. I don't think this is the place to discuss the point proposed by the SDP gentleman. I would like to point out that the public and we all know that counterpart Bećirović is known to propose at every session some points that do not have anything to do with this parliament. That's what counterpart Kalabić said. It's just so transparent, trying to buy cheap political points, pure SDP demagogy. But you've seen that they always get the auto goal. He's only following some orders he gets, like a parrot here repeats.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13882	Please, let's talk about the agenda and finish this by 3:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13883	... We lose every session for an hour or two at some points that have nothing to do with this House. As far as the TV's concerned, no one's running away. ... I'm about to be transferred, I'm about to be transferred... but if you create technical possibilities. And we certainly will when there's a TV report. I'd love to, since I'm gonna be in America, watching 31, I'd like to be here, so I'd like to see exactly the TV report and how it's done on TV and especially on the financial side, there are losses that are impossible. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13884	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13885	As far as my colleague Dokić's initiative is concerned, I must say that I and the Constitutional Commission have disputed the principles but also the constitutional basis for this draft law on the institution. In fact, I'd really like to know if a prison law has ever been passed in a country. So, special law on prison. Given that there is a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions which defines the establishment of this prison and since, as far as I am aware, the Council of Ministers has taken a number of concrete measures to implement those provisions of the law, so it would be good, since here I don't know if there is anyone from the Council of Ministers, but it would be good for my suggestion to suggest that, since he has the right, it means that the simple procedure on this law should be stopped, and that a provision in the Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is implemented. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13886	Thank you. Is there anyone else on the agenda? Dear Ambassador Belkić, Honored Ambassador Raguž, Ambassador Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13887	Here, I'd kind of comment, but I really expect someone from the Justice Department to justify an initiative to pass law on the institution, to set up a criminal sanctions institute. So here we haven't told everything why this initiative came and it's in line with the Council of Ministers and I don't see any reason to take it off. So today we have this law in first reading and I don't think this item of the agenda should be downloaded.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13888	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13889	I thank you, Mr. President, with my sincere congratulations to all the representatives and citizens of the Islamic religion for tomorrow's holiday. In order not to repeat the same situation that we had today to interrupt work at 15.00 hours, it seems to me that the next session was scheduled for 30, I had information on 30, now I'm told 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13890	31, 31.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13891	31st is... it's the eve of the Day of the Dead, situation the same... when people go to graves, family travel away, I think... I don't think they're scheduled. Please don't make an appointment until 30 or after that. I think it's a custom. Here, I didn't see the calendar, this morning I thought it was 30 and... we're not experiencing this situation again. I just want to say one word about the transfer conclusion. We have reached that conclusion as Home and we should remain at that conclusion. The college should... do everything to make that conclusion real, and if it isn't realized, then, here I am as a club, in the name of the club running to do that, during the debate on work... The board of directors and all that we will have as a part of the agenda of the Public TV System, let's take advantage and definitely finish that question, so we don't use it at every session. And the third thing, if I don't hear from you anymore, we'll try to waste our time rationally as you suggested. The debate on what Mr Bećirović has submitted is legitimate, but only in the context of what the Council of Ministers and institutions is and I support that this is how to formulate and debate and then put it on the agenda. Here, so that's why I'm in that form. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13892	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13893	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know that today we have so much of a agenda that it's hard for us to end it in a time that it's decent to work, and that's why possibly adding new points to the agenda I know that it would come across different interpretations, but I would ask, Mr. Chairman, you and the College, namely, there are sometimes some things that are urgent, that happen in time that we couldn't plan and control. You know, Mr. Chairman, that in July of the last session, we adopted in July and then at the House of Peoples – the Law on Higher Education. You also know that the law entered into force on 15 August after the publication in the “Official List” and that it entered into force on the day of its publication in the “Official List”, which means that the law is currently in force. It is also for you, as well as for all MPs who voted for the law or were against it, for reasons that probably meant to know what they were voting on, they know that the law provides for a transitional period of six months to comply with the laws of entities and cantons. At present, we could even see in the means of informing the last days several very serious problems that have arisen, and even the representatives of the Ministry have manifested themselves on the subject. Among other things, Mr. Chairman, there is one, I'm not going to say, confusion, but there is currently at different universities, in different environments of different interpretations of the Framework Law on Higher Education that result, among other things, in the problem of not knowing whether doctorates can be done now. And we're coming into a situation where in this country it can be interpreted so that I can't apply to doctorate until there's a doctoral study organized by the ECT system, or according to this new law, which is technically impossible to do in the next, at least a year. In other words, we have a problem. In some areas, the Higher Education Act also turns into a mechanism that, I want to say clearly here, abolishs the autonomy of the University. Please, let the autonomy of the University be abolished! It creates a great dissatisfaction, in the good part, a well-intentioned real academic community. For these reasons, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you that if it is possible for the next session... of Parliament that indeed the Council of Ministers, the competent minister, come out with us, or possibly, if we, as Parliament, as part of a committee in charge, prepare some serious debate with the representatives of the academic community on the application of this law, because it is all invoiced to the BiH Parliament. So, one, one... the unnecessaryness around which I'm sure there are no political differences in this country neither entity nor ethnic. And that's why my proposal, Mr. Chairman, instead of running for the agenda today, I'm going to give you a proposal on the agenda point and ask you to consider as the College that for the next session the Council of Ministers' information on the application is being prepared.... A framework law on higher education in BiH and activities at the alignment of laws at the level of entities and cantons with a plan for implementation over a six-month transitional period. I believe it will be something that, I'm sure, will overcome all possible political, ethnic and entity differences that exist on other issues. 10 Now, I apologize that I may have taken unnecessary time for today but I felt it was appropriate that this is a moment where I might ask you to come out to meet a need which, I'm sure, exists in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13894	Thank you. Is there anyone else who might be coming forward about the agenda debate? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Department of Justice, Department of Justice! ......... It is not usual for the Council of Ministers to discuss the agenda unless you state whether to withdraw that law from the agenda because, if not, then we will have the opportunity to hear you when it opens up as a part of the agenda. Since it was a proposal, and we will vote on it, Mr. Honorable MP Dokić, you will know whether it is a part of the agenda or not. Before we move to a vote on proposals for amendments and amendments to the agenda, I am obliged to note that all parliamentary initiatives of the College are really considered with extreme attention. And this one of yours, dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, will also be considered. We have already received letters from the union and we are looking at the way we can put it on the... agenda, although business is not strictly defined that the initiative, submitted at one session, is automatically the point of the agenda of the next session. We deal differently with initiatives in the College. So, for example. The initiative discussed by the honourable MEP Bećirović, which requires that, in collaboration with the competent authorities of the city of Mostar, the appropriate measures and moves allow the stadium under the White Cove to use the FK “Vlež” and the NK “Zrinski” equally – we have sent this initiative to our Joint Commission on Human Rights, which should give us the answer on this and then... that initiative... we will forward either as a point of the agenda or as your response to this. So different about the College's initiatives is determined, so your initiative, along with the union, we'll see if it'll be possible to make quality material to be the point of the agenda... next session. On the other hand, we had several initiatives to amend and supplement the agenda, and now I am putting the first initiative of the honourable MP Izetbegović to vote. Please, Džaferović, just so we can vote on the initiative of the president of your club, and the proposal is to take the agenda point below 20. Information on the implementation of the programme objectives of seven political parties (SNSD, SDA, SBiH, HDZ, 1990, PDP and NS Work for Betterment) has been removed from the agenda since 3 January 2007. I'm calling.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13896	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13897	Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Business. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13898	As far as I, Mr. Chairman, understand you in this opening section, you have made it very clear to us that we as Parliament have come to terms with this initiative. You gave me such an interpretation. If we are, and we seem to be in the last session, then there is no point in Parliament saying against its decision from the previous session, because you from the College did not accidentally put this on the agenda, and therefore I call on my colleague Izetbegović to withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13899	I think that we are doing business properly, that last time we decided to do it as a part of the agenda, but right now, because we decided to do it by 15.00 hours and because the MP had the right to make changes and supplement the agenda, I have to put it as a item of the agenda, and Parliament will decide whether to step on what he voted last time or leave it behind. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to decide otherwise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13900	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13901	Here you go. Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13902	First, we are all aware that today's agenda has 22 agenda points, and therefore it is quite clear that we are up to 15.00 hours as planned...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13903	Don't reconsider, don't reconsider.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13904	...we won't, so we won't be so sure, we shouldn't be too smart to decide. So that's one thing. And the other thing is to make that clear, if that's possible and if that's ever been a practice before. So, Mr. Izetbegović and all of us MPs voted at the previous session to make this a part of the agenda today. And today, again, on the proposal of the MP who voted in the last session, we will propose that we cancel what we voted for and what fellow Izetbegović voted for. If that's some practice that needs to be inauguration here in Parliament, then I'd like to see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13905	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović! We'll, I'm sorry, just please... suggest, if I may, before your replica. So, I will call on Parliament to make a statement on 12 of what I have proposed to put it to the vote. If Parliament declares itself, then we will put it to the vote. Is that okay? Don't make it look like we're voting, breaking the Rules of Procedure. So I call on Parliament to put forward a proposal. Do you have anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13906	I do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13907	Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13908	...and now to say that we accepted it. Therefore, this is a vague situation. I'm asking to make a statement. I think we'll clear this up very easily now, won't we?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13909	Here, please yes, yes. Dear MP Bećirović, a replica or correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13910	Given what fellow Izetbegović was talking about, here, I am officially asking you from the College to tell us what we said at the last session. Let's be clear first. Please, first of all, do not throw away, answer the word, there is a Rules of Procedure for all MPs as they come to the word and as one can speak. I am going back to what my colleague Živković was talking about, the chairman of the House of Representatives, and he made it very clear to us, at the beginning of today's session, that we had made it clear that we were against the previous session and that because of this, the College had put this in today's session. Following that interpretation, I suggest what I suggested earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13911	Please shorten this debate in the desire to finish today's session agenda. So, as the House of Acclaim, we've accepted this as a part of the agenda, and in the record, please, as you've seen, there's no vote to do so today's agenda. There's a record in the record that we voted not to have it at the last session of the agenda. I will now call on the House to make a statement on my proposal: to vote on the proposal of the honourable MEP Izetbegović on whether this will be or will not be a part of the agenda. Please prepare to vote. [[Common discussion]] I hope we don't have to explain. So, I call on Parliament to declare itself "yes", "against" or "abstained", in accordance with the Rules of Procedure – whether we will put to the vote a proposal of 13 of the honourable MP, whether we will plead on his proposal or not, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Here you go. "For" 28, "against" eight, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority – Dom accepted the vote on the proposal of the honourable Izetbegović MP to be removed from the 20th point agenda, that I do not repeat it. I call on the House to make a statement on the proposal of the honourable MP Izetbegović. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 29, "against" eight, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority – I find that item 20 has been removed from the agenda. At the same time, we had an identical request from the honourable MP Dokić to point 7. Proposal for a law establishing a criminal sanctions, detention and other measures to be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13913	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13914	Why? First reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13915	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13916	I have an emergency from the Secretary of the dom who, according to the Rules of Procedure, finds it impossible for the House to make a statement since this is a mandatory point. It has passed all the procedure, we have a report from the Commission and therefore we can determine ourselves according to that law when it comes to the agenda. So we can't vote on this. Since there have been no further proposals for amendments to the agenda, I find that the following has been adopted for the 16th session 1. Approval of the minutes of the 15th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Report from the Commission from the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in BiH – Proposer of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs (the law in first reading); 3. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposals of MPs 14 (a) Adem Huskić on the discussion of the state of play on the BiH labour market from June 2006 to June 2007, (b) Joza Križanović on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives – Proposer Milorad Živković; 4. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 5. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure; 6. Proposal for a law on sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law establishing a Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures (First Reading); 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Law No. 01-02-9-47-107 of 12.9.2007. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading); 10. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer Drago Kalabić (first reading); 12. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education; 13. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on a framework law on pre-school education and education in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 14. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the Law on radiation and nuclear security in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 15. Report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the audit carried out in 2006 by the following institutions (a) Archives of BiH, (b) Centre for Mine Elimination, (c) Central Bank of BiH – Foreign Debt, (d) Directorates for Civil Aviation of BiH, (e) State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, (f) Competition Council of BiH, (g) Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, (h) Ministry of Defence of BiH, (i) Board of State Department of Appeal; 16. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 31.1.2007 to 31.7.2007, with the proposal for a conclusion; 17. Information on the rationalisation of the DKP network in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the decisions made, the criteria for their decision-making, the effects of decisions taken, and further steps in this area - the proposal of MP Momčilo Novaković; 15 18. A proposal from the SDP and Herzegovina MPs' Club for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina through the replacement of Mr Sven Alkalaj, foreign ministers at the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 19. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the implementation of the conclusions of the 59rd and 73rd sessions of the previous House of Commons on the discussion of the Commission's proposal for a conclusion on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on the results of the resolution of the presentation of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Association of Decertified Policemen of Republika Srpska – Proposer of Parliament Zlatko Lagumdžija; 20. Proposal for a Joint Commission on Defence and Security (a) to address the issue of small and light weapons and ammunition in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) to address problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina's border police work; 21. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement on Economic and Technological Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Greece, (b) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on Co-operation in the area of the defence industry, (c) the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Prevention of Terrorism, Warsaw, 16 May 2005, (d) the Convention of the Council of Europe on the fight against trafficking in human beings, (e) the Convention of the Council of Europe on Money Laundering, Disclosure, Temporary confiscation and confiscation of profits acquired by criminal actions and terrorist financing, Warsaw, 16 May 2005. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. The minutes from the 15th session of the House of Representatives were sent to you by fax on October 8th. I'll let you know there's been a mistake. In fact, the 22nd point of peas states that the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises was adopted in the first reading. I don't think this bill has received an entity majority, so there will be an agreement in the College as a commission. This correction has already been made in the record and please respect this. Are there any other observations or additions to the record? I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It says on page 5 that I've asked some MP questions, and I'd like to do an intervention here right now. Namely, in the first question he was asked, it was a renewed matter of state
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13919	Please, just put the paper away for a minute so it can be heard. Here you go. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13920	Therefore, in the renewed question relating to the choice of the text of the national anthem, I reiterated the question, calling on Article 155 of our Rules of Procedure, paragraph (5), which states: If the entity does not deliver a reply within those deadlines, the applicant may ask the College to include the question required by the oral answer in the agenda of the next House. So, you can see from the stenogram that I, asking this question, asked for the application of this point of the Rules of Procedure and here I am renewing it and asking that correction be made in the record and that this intervention be respected, with the intention of putting this issue into the next session of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13921	Thank you. Does anyone else have anything to do with the zapisnik? If not, I propose to the House that, with the suggestion proposed by the honourable MP Križanović, we accept the record. I call upon the House to plead on the record. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! I find it unanimous, with 36 "for", the minutes adopted, along with these changes. We're going to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Laws and Supplements to the Act on Excises in BiH – Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs The law is in first reading. You're the one who got the lineup report. No consent has been reached in the College. I note we're going to a second-round vote. Everyone's voting. The votes "against" shall be counted. I ask Parliament to prepare itself. You can vote now! At the SDP Club's proposal, we'll repeat the vote. Please, so, please, everyone's voting. When voted in the second round, when the College failed to reach agreement, the votes "against" count. ......... They decide the votes "against", in case it is meant in RS 10 "against", or in the Federation of BiH 19 "against", so to speak. Please prepare, we can...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13923	No microphone 17 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13924	Please, it's not the first time we've voted in relation to the consent that... College. It's in the second round. The votes "against" shall be counted. Please prepare to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 25, "against" eight, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority – this law passed in the first reading. Moving to the 3rd agenda: Ad. 3. Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the proposals of MPs' conclusions: a) Adem Huskić on the review of the BiH labour market information from June 2006 to June 2007 You have now received a communication report on the proposed conclusion; on the proposal for a conclusion, the Kolegijum reached its agreement and we vote in accordance with Article 79. Rules of Procedure. The content of the conclusions you have in the report. Do I need to read the content of the conclusion? If not, I ask the House to plead its conclusion. You can vote. Now! "For" 31, "against" was not, six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority – I find this conclusion adopted. On the proposal for the conclusion of Honorable MP Joza Križanović, the College members failed to reach agreement. You also have the content of the conclusions in the report and we are now voting in the second round on the proposal for this conclusion. I'm asking Dom to prepare himself. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against", 13, "restricted" three. Since the RS entity was 10 "against", this conclusion did not get a majority and did not go through. Moving to the fourth agenda point: Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure 18
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13927	Thank you very much. Srđan Arnaut, Deputy Minister. So in the last session, we had changes and additions to the Criminal Law, and then I explained, in fact, that the High Representative imposed several laws, so in the package, about seven laws relating to similar matter. This law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement of criminal sanctions practically regulates provisions relating to detention imposed by the Court of Justice of BiH, the issue of withdrawal of travel documents, and so much has already been discussed. So, in order to have at all a law on amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and possibly its subsequent amendments, we must have adopted amendments imposed on a provisional basis by the High Representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13928	I'd like to thank Mr. Srđan Arnaut, the esteemed deputy from the Justice Department. I'm opening a debate on the Council of Ministers' request. Is anyone there to answer? If not, I hereby conclude the debate and call on the House to plead on the Council of Ministers' request. Please vote. Now! "For" 29, "against" four, one "abstained" and with a sufficient entity majority – the Council of Ministers' request was adopted. We move to a vote on a bill on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures under emergency procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 30, "against" four, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that this law has been passed. Moving to the fifth agenda point: Ad. 5. Request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents under emergency procedure 19 We have the same situation as at the previous point. The Council of Ministers delivered the Bill's proposal on 8 October. It is also a law passed by the High Representative. I would like a representative from the Council of Ministers of the Honorable Minister Nović to explain the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13930	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, as you know, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH, which is imposed by the High Representative, shall, above all, regulate the way travel documents are taken, in order to prevent activities that obstruct or threaten and obstruct the peace implementation process under the auspices of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. That is one reason why we need this law to be passed by emergency procedure. Others, because of the new amendments to the Law on Travel documents for the introduction of biometric passports, it is therefore necessary to enter into the procedure and amend this law and the deadline that we have set for biometric passports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13931	I thank the minister. I'm opening a debate about the demands. If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. I call upon the House to plead on the request of the Council of Ministers. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! "For" 30, "against" four, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority -- I find that the request has passed. I now call on the House to make a statement on the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents under an urgent procedure. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 30, "against" four, "abstained" one, sufficient entity majority - I realize this law has been passed. Moving to agenda number six: 20 Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on sports in BiH (second reading) At the 13th session of the Proposal for a Law on Sports, it was adopted in the first reading, which adopted a proposal from the debate to hold a public debate on the Proposal for a Law on Sports and to extend the amendment phase until the meeting of the Constitutional Commission will be held to discuss the Proposal for a Law in the second phase. The Constitutional Legal Commission report was sent to you on October 8th as well as the addition of the reports received on October 10th. The Commission adopted 24 amendments as you have seen from the Report and the Supplement of the Reports. Unfortunately, in the plenary phase, we have received a large number of amendments challenging the amendments adopted by this commission. We also received a large number of amendments that MPs again want to defend at the plenary stage. And I'll remind you what amendments have been tabled in the plenary phase in order to arrive. Dear MP Jozo Križanović has submitted two amendments that he also defends during the plenary phase. Dear MP Denis Bećirović: 10 amendments he defends in the plenary phase. Dear MP Momčilo Novaković has submitted amendments challenging 12 amendments to the Commission and also four amendments that he defends in the plenary phase. Živković submitted six amendments that he defended during the plenary phase. Lazar Prodanović, an honourable MP, has submitted amendments challenging 11 amendments to the Commission, and the amendments he has tabled in the plenary phase are identical with my amendments, so they will not be voted on. Please, just to remind you that the amendments to the honourable MP Novaković and Prodanović - have amendments that challenge the same amendments from the Commission, and we will vote unanimously on the same amendments. We have therefore systematiced amendments, amendments to the Commission, in order to make it easier to hold the vote, and, on the amendments that have arrived at the plenary stage, we will vote in the order of their arrival. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on sports in the second reading, which, of course, involves a debate on amendments. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13933	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, I would first like to say a few words in favour of the amendments that I have submitted within the scheduled time limit. In this regard, sport is part of the NGO sector, and in this sense the state should not affect any way in the pursuit of sports processes, but should leave it exclusively to the sports population. You see how this law is defined and how it's made. He mostly copys a multiplier state administration that everyone thinks is expensive, that is trom, that is inefficient. But this state administration has at least guaranteed taxpayers' money for its needs, so the first question is who would pay and from which sources would pay a multiplier, trom, inefficient and expensive sports administration and is that what we want. Of course, I will not repeat what I was saying when I first read the proposal for a law on sports, but it is evident that BiH citizens, especially athletes and young people, were the only ones on this continent who had no law on sport, and if such text of the Law on Sports is adopted, we will be the only ones again, but because we have the worst legal solutions in all of Europe. After so much waiting for this law, so much money spent by the taxpayers of this country, it's absolutely certain that we should have gotten a better text of the law. But unfortunately, after very bad laws on higher education, secondary vocational education and a series of other laws, here we are offered such a bad sport law. And worst of all, there is often a false dilemma in front of both MPs and the public, and that is – is it better if we have any law or that we have no law? Apart from these two dilemmas, there is, or options, there is a third best option and it is that we have the Law on Sports of BiH and that we have a good Law on Sport of BiH. I must say here: firstly, this is the most restrictive law in Europe regarding the precision of the rights of athletes in BiH. And I ask the question - why are we..., that is, why are we offered this in such a way and is it in the interest of athletes throughout BiH, especially young people? I will not repeat what we have proposed on the rights of athletes and what should be adopted in order to make this law look like the laws that are on stage in the developed countries of Europe. We specifically referred to the fact, the obligation of health care. The health care of athletes cannot be defined this way, nor leave at the will of lower levels of government, that this segment edits as it pleases. At least the health of athletes, all the people in this country, could have been shared in this law. Also, when it comes to compliance with the European Convention, it is said here that the organisation of sports competitions and sports events must be in line with the recommendations of the European Convention to combat violence and misbehave of viewers at sports events, especially at football matches. This is in Article 50, and it is surprising that Article 68 does not provide for any sanctions, no criminal provisions for fascist and nationalist savagery and characteristics on sports grounds, which, of course, if this text remains, still allows offensive messages and contents to remain in the stands of various sports courts in BiH. When it comes to funding sports, one of the biggest shortcomings in this law is the fact that in terms of funding, if such a text of the law passes, we will be the only country that, firstly, will not know what its public needs are in sports at the state level. Well, if we want to be even more precise, than 100% of BiH, as some have promised us a year ago, but not even 1% of BiH's funding is on the state level. Furthermore, the defeating fact is that there are not even special members in this bill, although I also spoke of it in the first reading that all developed, specially developed sports nations have installed chapters in their laws, and we cannot even members, so first of all, we do not have any members talking about student sports associations. And I remind you, most European countries have a whole chapter that regulates this area. What was the reason, which was the obstacle that one chapter could not be made about student sports associations, sports competitions of students, etc., whose national interest is to disable 22 students, let's say, in realising these rights used by all their peers both in neighbouring and in all other European countries. A particularly large lack of this law is a fact – we have no member of the law that speaks of school sport. All developed sports nations in Europe pay great attention to this issue, as successful athletes are later recruited from this school sport, etc. We don't even have any members, and all the other countries, I remind you, have special chapters on that. Why didn't we build it into this law, even though I was also talking about it in my first reading? Of course, I'm not going to repeat all those remarks that we made and then, we tried, and now I'm saying the name of the SDP Club: that, through the amendment, at least we can ease this bad law that was offered for adoption. This law, for sure, needs to be depoliticalized under number one, and it must become an expert act. And I call once again at this session and all my colleagues in the House of Representatives to, at least when it comes to sports, make one step in the interest of young people in this country, in the interest of athletes, and at least make one, to call it, a fair law that will look like something. You've seen what the Law on Higher Education is, what the law is – it's all some rotten compromises that were made exclusively to satisfy the form, but there's basically nothing there. We don't always have to be the hostages of some internal disciplines of party, entity, national, etc. At least in sports, athletes, we could offer the people of this country one law, so here, if you want me to say – at least the kind of law our neighbors have. I really cannot understand why people living here in BiH, in the BiH state, do not want this country to have at least the law it has, say, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. What is wrong with Bosanac and Hercegovac, Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and other athletes, young people that they too have a law like their peers or fellow athletes in neighbouring countries! We even have a situation that we in BiH, I wish if someone could explain to us, we can't offer athletes and young people or those legal solutions that our neighbours have already adopted, even though they represent, in the good part of sports, sports power. So, we offered, I specifically offered on six pages of the amendment and I wouldn't repeat them, given that they were delivered, I think, and in writing to all MPs. Basically, it's about things that would at least correct or correct this bad text of the law. Here it is defined, first of all, here, let's say, in Article 49. I wanted this amendment to ensure and hire organizers to ensure the smooth and safe maintenance of sports events and competitions. We've all seen the practice and what's going on in BiH on sports grounds. Therefore, the amendment aims to define and require the organiser to take measures to prevent the risk of damage to participants, viewers and third parties, as well as this part of the warning to highlight bans, givings, etc. I remind you that these solutions that I have offered in the amendment already have a number of other European countries and there is no reason why we should not put this issue in order. For example, in Article 64, amandman vi, it is very clear that these are public needs in sport at national level. No state has a law on sports without defining what its public needs are in sport. Here it is proposed, so at least that might be agreed, to encourage and affirm sports, especially sports of children, young people, students and people with disabilities, then to encourage planning and construction of sports facilities, care for top athletes, etc., etc. I think that's the minimum we should find consensus in this House and agree to define it in this law. 23 Also, I have proposed a special amendment that I have elaborated, whether, in three members, which refers to the introduction of a state prize for sport. And I suggested that the state sport award is called "Mirza Delibašić" State Sports Award. Why Mirza Delibašić? Because it was officially named BiH's top 20th century athlete. I think athletes in this BiH, as well as athletes in other countries, have the right to a state award when they achieve top-notch achievements. This has been regulated in neighbouring countries, and in other European countries, and I don't know why it would be controversial for BiH and BiH athletes to have the opportunity to achieve top sports achievements or achievements to win the state sport award. Of course, this could still be talked about, but at this point, here's the business limit on time, and I'm going to end up with this part. And I'll assess, of course, whether there will be any need for further discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13934	Thank you. I currently have on display an honourable MP, Novaković, the honourable Member of Raguž, who was registered for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13935	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, Mr Bećirović and I agree in one thing: neither he nor I will vote in favour of this law unless our amendments are accepted. And that, therefore, is the current position around this law. We don't just agree on amendments. Namely, my amendments and his amendments are quite the opposite. Listening to this discussion, as well as some discussions last time, so if you want to discuss it in a public debate, I got the impression that we don't have any sport in BiH at all and that we won't have it unless we adopt the law. What young people do there now is probably not called sports, because we don't have a state-level law. Of course, it's the wrong thing to do. First of all, it is clearly defined in whose jurisdiction there is sport. The billmaker has made an attempt to avoid these constitutional obstacles and to get the sport law. Whether he did it well or not, it is, of course, assessed through these amendments and evaluated through the current parliamentary procedure. The fact is that the Constitutional Commission has accepted a number of amendments that have essentially changed the initial version of the law, i.e. the bill's proposal. Of course, completely legal and completely legitimate, mostly required by most votes. And it is not disputed, but it is contentious that the adoption of these amendments has brought into question the adoption of the law. Better say, it has been questioned by the Council of Ministers to provide this country with the Sport Act, of course, through our actions in Parliament. I guess the colleagues who proposed these amendments and who voted in favour of these amendments were fully aware of these facts. Now, as much as they care about the Law on Sports, so does that fact and that way of voting in the Constitutional Commission, despite the warning, means by some MPs, that it may have bad consequences. That is why I have proposed, in accordance with Rule 118 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, a group of amendments that have been adopted, meaning amendments adopted, cancel and return the text of the law in these articles to the initial version. And that's one of the conditions for us to think about supporting this law. 24 The second group of amendments are amendments, in accordance with Article 118(2), which speak, these are only four amendments, which in principle try, according to us, to some provisions of the law which are, however, contrary to the Constitution, to bring into the constitutional position. Especially when it comes to amendments II, III and IV where we believe that entities should retain what they are meant to do with the Constitution. Otherwise, this law would require a completely different procedure to this home, which so far, as we all know, has not happened, or is not respected. And not to go any further, respecting the really need to end this session effectively, the SDS MPs' club will, depending on the vote on the amendments set out in point.......Point 118 (2), determine on this law, and unless the amendments adopted at the session of the Constitutional Commission are adopted in the... Group,... at Amendment I, means item 118 (1), we will be against the adoption of this Sport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13936	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13937	Thank you very much. Regardless of the importance of all these points that are on the agenda today, I think this one is really important and that... I need, within this time that we have at our disposal, to try to use rationally. I have reported here that the party's name means the name of HDZ 1990, I say a few words about the importance of this law, because I believe that by adopting this law we justify our position here in an important social area,... which in the modern world and in global relations... becomes extremely important for opening up the perspective of even life in a single country. So many young people, so many expectations, so many messages, and I don't see that we should politicize so much with this law. I don't think there's anything that entities are damaged here, the state is stronger, it's just... it's looking for instruments to regulate that area that can be expressed in... that important area. For this reason, compared to what counterpart Bećirović said, I am for the law, even if it is imperfect. So it's important... that we have that law. And as for these grades of Mr. Novaković, he always says it in the original way as he knows it. However, this is not about someone – at least my amendment adopted by the Constitutional Legal Commission – in no way questioning entity jurisdiction in sport. He predicts here the establishment of the National Sports Council as an expert body. Please, how can you make these demands... in terms of creating conditions for the development of sport – selecting, standards, competitions, representative selections, correspondence in exceptional international competitions – please satisfy if you do not have one expert body. I assure you: this is support, this amendment has general public support for sports in BiH, in each part, it takes nothing away from entities. And I don't see why this amendment, now that has been adopted, should be eliminated in order to pass the law; I mean there's no serious argument and justification. Finally, the Sports Sector, which is provided for here, or the Ministry of Civil Sports,... as the competent ministry for the implementation of this law, has its own role as prescribed by this law and the State Sports Council will only professionally help the 25 sector to have better quality designs, better projections. At this point, we do not have any representative selection of BiH that has a resolved funding issue in an argumentable, serious and self-sustainable way, not even 12 years after Dejton. Come on, if it could've been the first, second, third year to justify it, so today, there's really no excuse for it, there's really no excuse for it. Then we need to know... which competitions should be sponsored and financed by budgets. Who's going to do those criteria? Well, people know that... who are soul and body and experience in sport and who can make their own professional contribution, so I think of course I know where jurisdiction is... in terms of legislative and that... the biggest part and it is on lower entities and it will stay, it's not controversial, but we can't! So look where the parameters are, in what... our state of sport; of course the sport is going on, but here's that sport is on the back ladders in all segments, so we can't meet the Olympic norms, we can't! I mean, we have to deal with this question. People go out of here and they're the most successful in football, basketball and other clubs. So it's a matter of system. And I really don't think there's any reason for these positive initiatives and amendments to be tied up... that there's some tendency that there's no law, there's really no, I mean, argumentably speaking. So, it is for us to make an effort today to get to the law, start it from a dead end, so in the application procedure and in some other elements we'll be able to make additional, additional changes... but not be more of a barrier to one important issue, one important area... here in this home. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13938	Thank you. The Honorable Messenger Genjac is first, unless he is, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13939	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, of course, as well as all the laws when we apply the amendment, do so with the intention of improving the law, getting as much better law as possible and, from that gesture of investment of the amendment, I only allow that intention to be read, and intending to bring down the law, etc. - it's still speculation and... I wouldn't allow it, especially when it comes to my amendments. In the original proposal, the law did indeed meet several requirements needed when it comes to the Law of Sports. He also respected the competences of the constitutional legal structure in BiH, the administrative levels of organisation, the real need to reach it, he also respected some of the international acts... on which the international foundation of this law was based and it is not disputed and it is a good attempt. However, the law has significantly tied some things in the original proposal to the administrative ways of organising BiH in a very rigorous, strict way and in a way that is not acceptable in accordance with the acts it is calling for. And in doing so, I mean the International Charter of Sports of the UN, I mean the Law on Associations and Foundations in BiH, and also the European Convention on Human Rights and Freedoms, whose rights are guaranteed by our Constitution, all of our citizens, including one of the most important – the right to free association and peaceful gathering. Therefore, I have proposed several amendments and the Constitutional Commission has adopted these amendments in no way, in any case whatsoever, do not mean icicles, 26 abolishing or prohibiting existing rights to entities and other levels of administrative organisation. So, they still allow it to remain the rights of jurisdiction all the way it is, but they do remove the trap that some regulations strictly bind to what is contrary to those acts to which the law is called. I'll remind you only that in article 90 it was for example. envisioned that the BiH Sports Federation is established in accordance with this law, this law, the Law on Associations and Foundations, based on decisions by entity sports alliances on voluntary association. First of all, I really don't know that anywhere in one law is the provision of volunteering, of voluntary association. Secondly, it also calls for the Law on Associations and Foundations, which says BiH is enough for three entities to establish associations, associations and so on. And then it's said: according to this Law of Associations and Foundations, and then only when the entity alliances voluntarily decide to form an alliance. That's the trap that was. Elimination of this provision leaves the entity alliances still to do their job in accordance with the powers and entities to work in accordance with the powers, but it brings into line with both the Convention and the UN Charter of Sports and the Law on Associations and Foundations in BiH, etc., so that regardless of the assessments – if something is respected, we will only consider whether to support, which is not, I think, appropriate for parliamentary debate. I think you need attention and energy to focus on real content and amendments to the law itself and the very purpose of the law. I'd just like to look back at the previous discussions on the law. I have the impression that in certain discussions there have been talks about the law as if no amendments had been adopted. It is very important to consider the amendments adopted on the Constitutional Commission when it comes to the context, essence and content of the law. The adopted amendments speak of school sports and university sports. They are very much talking about public interests and objectives, including the promotion, organisation and financing of the public goal and interest, in terms of school and university sport, it is also very prominent in the obligations of the Sports Union. And one of the key arguments to adopt... the amendment, in terms of funding in the field of sports, was exactly the state of school and university sport. So that was the reason to adopt an amendment relating to funding, to budgeting sports, and to meet sports goals, and then we had in mind that in primary and secondary schools over 340,000 students and about 100,000 students were educated. And, of course, we had in mind that about 18,000 people with disabilities are in various associations and are engaged in different sports activities. We also had in mind one study carried out at the Canton of Sarajevo where... about 1,600 students were found to have over 60% of students having physical deformities. So these were the arguments and the reasons why we... pleaded for the amendment relating to funding, the clear definition of the amendments regarding funding in sport. So I think I'm appealing to my colleagues to make an additional effort, and to have in mind and to improve the law, and to bear in mind that no authority and ability of entities and other levels in the field of sport in these amendments has been compromised or dominated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13940	Thank you. Dear Messenger Zorić, then the honourable Messenger Jovičić, and the honourable Messenger Huskić. Here you go. Please sign in electronically.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13941	I'm just going to say a few sentences, which is that for me sport is not a political issue and I object to politicizing sports. By the way, I would like to congratulate BiH representative Markica Dodig, who is the double champion of the world and the organizers of the World Cup held in BiH, as some televisions outside the country passed on to the impeccably organized World Cup. That's what they said. And my colleague Bećirović will probably say one day that the organisers did not give television to broadcast these events just as it accuses Parliament's leadership of not transferring these sessions. So, BiH television and Federation television did not want to, they said they were not interested in the World Cup held in BiH, and I still use this opportunity to congratulate both the organisers and medal winners. What I wanted to say about this law is that when we discussed some other laws, and here I remember the budget, that we did not allow such amendments, that one amendment would delete 12 amendments, colleague Novaković, so I would like to appreciate that, that we should respect that when we declare this amendment or these amendments, because I can be: to delete two amendments, so that 10 is not deleted. So, I'd like to do the same thing we've done so far. That's all I came to say. This introduction you realize is my personal statement and my personal congratulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13942	Thank you. Here in the name of the Kolegijum and we join the congratulations. As for the vote on amendments, we've already separated it, so there will be one amendment at a time, not in the package. The following came to the discussion, Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13943	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, dear guests from the NGO sector and of course media representatives, when we had in the first reading the proposal of this law, then I said that this law would be flawed if it did not contain criminal sanctions against people who make huge incidents on sports grounds. And I couldn't possibly be satisfied that it already existed in criminal law or that some sublegal acts would be done. There were criminal laws before us in England, so until they passed the Sport Act and predicted what was happening to them, the hooligans didn't calm down. But why did I answer today? So, the Sports Act? The athlete is thousands, tens of thousands, and it doesn't matter what the numbers are, the masseuse is good, but hundreds of thousands of fans and sympathisers, and right then I was talking about the various variations that are making riots. And it's not just crimes of destroying property or causing damage to people, or even with 28 fatal consequences, but it's a chain of crimes from causing riots and then later destruction of certain objects and not to list everything that was there. But I regret to find out what kind of state we are and this example is illustrative. President of the RS, late Milan Jelić, died, and how much we respect BiH institutions! Here we will ignore that he was the president of the RS, but he was the president of the BiH Football Federation and worked most to unite the two entity alliances. And the league is on its way, Prime Minister, and the others are on their way, which was a determined thing. We didn't remember today that for a minute of silence, we gave the man the mention. But good. But what's most disappointing to me, and I'm just asking for those criminal sanctions to be in the Sports Act, is the two websites I've seen. One site, I think, is called fanatics and they're nationalist fanatics. And what do they write there? If this country were normal, the site would be banned tomorrow. The prosecution would take care of these things, the court would react. But anything here is possible. Loved someone, not loved someone, is not allowed in such a way to express everything that is worst, blackest to one man, and they saw him as a representative of the Serbian people, which is clearly clear. I have to say it today. It has caused indignation with many Srbin who have called me for days and said if it is possible that something like this might happen in this country. God Bog, he wouldn't even come to Parliament's session, but I'd go and ask the first prosecutor to find him right away and tell him what he's going to do. So please, the Sports Act will not regulate who will fund it either way, but why don't we learn from our mistakes and we know that, first, in that former Yugoslavia, athletes have split up, then the military and the police. You know, sports started it all. Don't let us here, there's no game playing on any ground, depending on teams and whose dominant audience there is, not to insult the other one and not only is it insulting but the entire street in Lukavica crashes, by the accident of Bosniak houses, and breaks down – all Sarajevo fans. All Bosniak windows were broken, which is amazing, people, so it's impossible to make any law on sports and athletes. This should not even be done, but to make a law with criminal sanctions against hooligans and against those who are making huge riots, who do not allow athletes to really engage in sports and to be a representative of this country and young people to integrate into those structures, no matter what they call themselves, an institution, an alliance, whether someone will enter voluntarily or not. So please, this law is flawed, and of course I will plead according to the proposal, what it will look like but, in my opinion, it did not contain everything it had to contain without these, I said, criminal sanctions, it is flawed and it will not solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13944	I would like to thank Ambassador Jovičić. Here's to accepting that it's a mistake that I didn't invite the House at the beginning of the session to pay our respects to the late President of the RS, but I think the moment we talk about sports is now. And please... and I call on Parliament to pay our respects in a moment of silence. /Congratulation of Honors/ 29 May he have eternal glory, and thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13946	Article 50 provides that the organisation of sports competitors and athletes, events, must comply with the recommendation of the European Convention on the Prevention of Violence on Sports Fields. This convention has been ratified, but there is one problem – it has not been published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" and I think it is necessary to do so, and then, under this convention, we have the possibility that exactly what you've been talking about we are absolutely suppressing, all these hooligans who are doing this to us in sports and about the head in that sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13947	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić, as the last to sign up. If anyone else has a wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13948	I don't know if I have the right to thank my colleague Jovičić. I think he was correct in this statement and you reacted correctly and I think Mr Jelić deserved this treatment in Parliament. I'll do it before I start talking, and I'll talk as a member of this committee and as an ex-sportsman, something I understand as something in sports. I'd like to say about these hooligans stories. I don't think it's necessary for this law to sanction hiligacy. But to sanction him, that's for sure. And here, I'm starting the initiative now, I'm making a proposal, since the minister is here, I think we should pass a special law on the prevention of hooliganism on sports grounds, like some other countries that had the Sport Act, but the situation dictated that such laws were passed specifically, and they did, I mean, quite successfully. Once upon a time, some sports were sports of intellectuals, now they became sports of people on the lowest social scale, and I think we have to do something radical here as a society and as a state. As far as this sport law is concerned, I think the Ministry worked in a sports way as a slalom that they passed, and that nowhere, they drove the race, and that nowhere did the gate hang, and I think they did the best they could. I also think that the Constitutional Commission, whose member I am, did the best she could. And I'm, I'm sorry that the results of the vote were as they were, I'm not happy about it, but believe me here I want to convince my colleagues that I disagreed with on this committee that I was leaving the position of athletes,...as little that politics is pictured through this sport law, and the more to represent the interests of athletes. Of course, it's not possible to achieve both, so some things, let me say, that are 30 of a political nature, I didn't consider them relevant to these. And I fully support my colleague Zorić and Raguž and Genjac in that sense as they say - I fully agree. I think this law is good and there's nothing more we can do at this point. The question is, can we do this? And in order to do that, in order to pass the law, I will at the shortest ask my colleagues who have submitted amendments to withdraw them, to get to the law, because... the amendments, in fact, reflect two concepts of understanding of this law, not to say other concepts, that they are mutually opposed and excluded. So the best thing to do is to adopt what was adopted on this committee and have a law that, I say again, is not perfect, but it's better to have it and it's not bad enough that we should throw it away. What is not good in that law or what, to say, in a manner of conditionality, is not politically acceptable, probably time will bring such an environment that the law will also be acceptable and will improve. So, to cut the whole story short, I suggest we adopt this committee's report, adopt this law. I think that's the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13949	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić and Honourable Ambassador Niko Lozančić. And finally, honourable MP Bećirović, and then we'll give the minister a chance if he needs to explain something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13950	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this law and the problem of sports allows such a situation in which we could conduct the debate for hours and there is hardly any topic of not touching ourselves through sports and that is how it is. And I'm going to try to avoid it, because I think, no matter what the debate is, I wouldn't give any results at this point. I'm going to say the SNSD's position on this and look back at a few notes from previous discussions. The SNSD was pleased with the entry of this law into the procedure and we felt that, since it was agreed to the Council of Ministers and that the political parties that had had the opportunity, in a way to give, unlike others who had not had their own observations, that it had secured the majority in this Parliament, and by respecting certain deadlines and the importance that we today are told that by not passing this law we have problems with certain deadlines and European associations, we felt that this was at the threshold of adoption and we were prepared to support it. We considered in particular those political parties whose ministers in the Council of Ministers are not going in this direction to change the essence of this law and not to get it, that is, to get a completely different meaning, in relation to the text proposed by the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. That's what happened on the Constitutional Commission, not to open the controversy, that if we say the word revote -- that it's not just a questionable revote, how controversial it is that it is that we don't get the law. That's the slowest part of it. Despite the warning, even though we are aware of the situation in which we are, we cannot live in some ideal world without respecting reality, although some have, try, have the right to do so, but reality is what it is and we have tried to find 31 of what it takes at this point to get a law that was state law, respecting everything that has contributed to it being what it is. However, after what happened on the Constitutional Commission, the Ministry's position and on that commission – if they are not adopted today, so to call them 'contraamands' and not to be corrected in terms of the agreed text in the Council of Ministers, I think it will be difficult to reach the law. I wish it didn't, and I think we're running away from reality a little bit when we say that some part of sports isn't a political issue. All that is found in Parliament, all that lies ahead of elected representatives, especially the passing of laws, is normally a political issue. I'd like it to have some kind of chip, so let's turn it off, I don't know, that a man is not a political factor but a sport factor, but that's not the case. The story of both the laws and these regulations is clear to all of us, we all know the state of society. And rich and powerful countries, before their success in sports, solved many other problems and then reflected that condition was also a successful sports nation and what was happening to them. So... some countries that are not even close to having that condition, precisely because of these problems. We can't do that, we can't ignore it. The fact that the state of England at the moment when it made a decision, the political decision to deal with the hooligans, the instrument of that decision was one law, but also that there was no law count on them to deal with it, because they made a decision to do so. I can never accept that because someone from the stadium broke a window that wasn't a job for the police, because it has to do with a sports game, it has to do with sports, and we don't have something regulated there, and that window, well, stays broken in some special setting. The bottom line is that in sports clubs, sports organisations, the country's politicians are sitting representatives of the interior ministry, and I don't know what everything is, and that's the situation that is what it is, and it's likely that even then politics will have to take decisive steps to make, is that, in the form of another law or other political decisions to take with this state of reckoning that is what it is. RS, I should like to remind you, that there is a Law on Sports and I think that Honorable counterpart Bećirović, before calling for Serbia, should say that these issues have been regulated by that law. We were not intruding others to pass the law, but we passed the Law on sports and knowing the specificity of the situation, knowing both constitutional competences and, again, not underestimating the situation that sport is monitoring certain developments in BiH. The story is that we came to the state parliament to address the issue of returning a club called Velez and Zrinski, a story concerning Mostar, if it weren't for a political issue, it wouldn't have come to the state parliament. Now, she doesn't concern the RS either, but that's the problem, the problem is that we respect and don't underestimate him at all, and we need to treat him seriously because, if it were just a sports question, it would probably be settled by now. However, it is not one who wants to understand the essence of sports and the problem when he reads the interview by Enver Marić and when he reads Duško Bajević's interview and combines it together, he will fully understand the situation in sports in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13951	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić: Correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13952	I didn't say that sport is not a political issue, but that it's not a political question for me, and I'm staying on it. So, counterpart Kalabić and the public can think quite the opposite of me, I continue to argue and remain that sport is not a political issue for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13953	Thank you. Next came a dear colleague, Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13954	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I, at the beginning of this rally, join the congratulations and, behold, the newest state, or the world champion from BiH, but here I would take advantage of the occasion and congratulate all those, athletes, who perform in various competitions for the colors of BiH or BiH clubs for the results they achieve in indeed, here, almost impossible conditions This at the beginning, and I would also agree with many of today's speakers, although they had different approaches to this issue. I want to send another card to the ministry and the Council of Ministers, which, behold, after not knowing how many years, that I don't count the years, yet here in this House has delivered some proposal for a law on sport. I believe that all of you have had the opportunity to talk or listen or be questioned by different representatives, different associations, different associations of athletes, sports workers, etc. - What's that, when you're gonna pass that sport bill. And I really don't see any reason why we don't bring the Sports Act here today. I will also agree with those who think that sport should not be politicised, but also with those who say that, however, sport is a political issue, because here's what's here, but the difference between a political issue and politicizing is for me and too big. I would also like to invite all those who, behold, have organised a public debate on the proposal of this law, who, behold, have taken to their task and made an effort, and have offered us some new thoughts through the amendments, as well as congratulating, but I want to appeal, I don't want to make any reference to the concrete proposals of these proposings of different amendments, I want to appeal to all of us today that we really find ways to pass the Sport Act because, here, for me, and for many others that I have listened to, one rule applies – a better and worse law than no law. At BiH level, we do not have any law on sports, and I think today we need to find a way to make the BiH Sport Act, not to argue that the law can have entities and cantons, so, if it will, the municipalities also make some decisions on sport. I'm not for us to bother them. It would be good if we all made a lot of efforts to really make this important social area really have treatment really and really our concern, not just declared from opportunity to opportunity. In order to come up with some solution, without turning this law into a polygon for various disputed rhetoric or, I don't know, I don't know, collecting any points here, Mr. President, I suggest that, after the debate is over, let's not know how to,.... that an ad hoc working group, an ad hoc working group, perhaps at the head, see the Honorable Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr. Džaferović, and that perhaps, I say, I don't have to be... that with the amendment promoters, try to find a 33 compromise solution on all amendments, and as possible according to Article 118. I believe that colleagues in the College will accept the possibility of new amendments, in accordance with Article 118(3) of the point under b),... and with this proposal come up with a single proposal... before us here and try, means really without politicizing, respecting that the political issue is today passed by the Sport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13955	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go. If only you had, it means that you had already discussed the amendments once, to limit your discussion, so that the rest of you would have, I can see that he also applied for the Honorable Ambassador Okolić, given the opportunity to debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13956	Well, first of all, I want to say that this is the BiH Parliament and that we are discussing today the proposal for a law on sports for BiH. Why am I saying that? Because this country is going into the world with this law on sport, because the country's athletes go to the world with this law and those in the world will not represent either the Federation of BiH entity or the RS entity but will already represent the BiH state and therefore I think it is necessary to speak and improve the text of BiH's law on sport. When it comes to "The Velež“, counterpart Kalabić referred to this initiative of mine, I must say that yesterday we are at a meeting of the Commission for Human Rights, it is,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13957	Please just listen a little bit, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13958	...has just been a colleague of the SNSD, from the House of Peoples, it seems to me, Mr. Jovičić said that this initiative brought him back to a better time. I just want to say that although the SDP here has no parliamentary majority but at least the right to fight for some new better times, and specifically, when it comes to these things, I think it's time in this country that we stop selling the fog. I asked it in the first reading, in the first discussion, here in the second discussion I still have no answer to this question, and I publicly repeat it once again why would BiH athletes not have quality legal solutions as to how they have their colleagues in neighbouring countries? I have no rational answer to that question. Why would athletes in Belgrade, for example, have a better legal background than athletes in Banja Luka, than athletes in Tuzla, Bijeljina, etc.? We need not just adopt laws to justify ourselves to someone for something, we need to start making laws for us, for the people who live in this country. I was very clear about the fact that in this proposed text, I am pleased to hear from someone from the Council of Ministers after me, there are no members and no chapters on school sports, student sports competitions and student sports. And I'm sorry there isn't a fellow Halid Genjac who used to say he did. There's nothing I'm talking about, and there's only two words in Amendment XXVII. point d), because I studied them carefully and they don't even talk about this 34 that I'm talking about. I ask you at the Council of Ministers how could you pass over 150,000 students and school youth in this country without regulating the issues of school sport development, student sport development, etc? A colleague, Jovičić, and I fully agree with him, when he spoke about the need to sanction incidents on the ground and against savagery on sports grounds and all that he said to his colleague, Jovičić, among other things, in the Amendment X, which literally reads If someone organizes a sports competition and a sports event in BiH and does not meet the requirements of Article 50 of this Law, he will be sanctioned. And to be precise, the 50th is the member who speaks about the European Convention on the Prevention of Violence and the Misbehavior of Watchers at sports events, especially football matches. So if we have an honest intention to stop at such negative phenomena, here... Amendment X. where we will see what our intention and commitment really is in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13959	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13960	I don't think we understand each other, but Denis, a respected colleague of Bećirović, is the right not to have to understand the matter. Because if I understand him, he says like this, "As soon as we follow these suggestions and pass the law, in Kaknja, Jelena Isimbajev will be born and he will skip tomorrow 5.12 in a jump with a pole."
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13961	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13962	No, you can't make him skip 5.12 just by dealing with it by law and we did it. Because you're jumping many steps before that, you don't want to mention the RS that's half BiH, it's the way it is. He's got his own Sports Act, which also helps there, so that I don't list and open the subject now, and what's been denied by someone else's law. Nothing. It is your call, at least your invitation to Serbia. Against this Serbia, you have been here so many times and, when I convinced you that Serbia has solved many things well, you have only just realized in sports that Serbia has done well. Yeah, but sports is part of the system. She solved some other things well and solved it here and sport. That's what I'm talking about. It is not disputed your initiative and brings me back to... time "Veleža" but you should know the composition "Veleža" then – all 16 players. If you find only seven of which you want: here, I can say from Tuce and beyond, to Skočajić, to Vladić and, as you will, complete composition. But that time that was so and to bring back what you wanted, that's where you mixed up a lot of things. That's why I'm saying, "We're not gonna do it that way." I'm talking about reality. I don't mind even being in someone else, but that's how it is, and that's what this initiative has come up with about "Self" and around the stadium means that it's a very complex question that's not been resolved so far, it's not solved, it's not coming in, and I absolutely don't remember who it is and why and, I don't know, it's back in time. I know when "Hyduk" was losing regularly down there, at 4:1 35 was the last time in Mostar. We've all been rooting for this "Lie". It wasn't disputed, but in this way to approach the law, I insisted on one reality, one reality. The law itself won't solve all the problems in sports, because we convince people that it will, and especially in this situation, when we came into a situation that we don't have any laws until yesterday. I would remind you, if you will, I was just talking about the police, about the social will to deal with it. Well there was time and the Alliance, there was also at that time, remember with which forces it was in the morning... one police action in the morning was well organized and she was solved... And that's why they were ready for strength and everything they needed. But there's no will in the stadium. It's the same administration that commands both the other and the third police and the stadium and some other places!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13963	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Take it easy, please. Since we are going to have a debate about this law and we have a quality proposal proposed by the distinguished colleague Lozančić, please limit yourself to the debate on this law, or amendments, since we are in phase two. Dear MP Zorić was the first to seek business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13964	Well, it's not exactly business, it's intervention. If it's acceptable, most of us, Mr. Lozančić's proposal, I'd like to make a statement, because we're going to talk again, and today we're in trouble with time and we need to respect that time. If it's acceptable, this is all irrelevant to what we're going to tell.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13965	Here, honourable MP Zorić, I mentioned it before I gave you my word but I simply cannot give a word to people who are looking for a word but I warn them that it would be good not to open up a debate on some issues that are less relevant to sport, about everything else and to try to complete this agenda point with this proposal. But here's the honourable MP Bećirović asking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13966	I must say, when my colleague Kalabić spoke, did he understand me well, that he did not understand me! He talked about some things I didn't talk about or think about them. But it's his right again. I, here, and my colleague Kalabić, and all others, call on us in the BiH Parliament to act as MEPs of the BiH state, citizens and citizens of BiH. And this is neither the BiH Federation Parliament nor the RS Assembly to talk about entities but... here we are talking about the law with which our athletes will go into the world and represent this country in the world. It is my wish, and to this I have the right to make this law better, and when a athlete from this country goes to any merdian or parallel of this planet to go with a decent law as well as their colleagues from other countries. 36 What is it? It is, whether it is secret or not to say and to refer to the positive experiences of those countries that have solved certain good things. I am not afraid to say at all when Serbia regulates a certain thing legally that it is as good as I am not afraid to say anything that I think is wrong and harmful for both Serbia and its environment. But the bottom line is next. Of course we're not going with this law, not without it or with it, to get someone who's going to jump 5 meters, is it, with or without a stick. That's not how much anyone's jumped yet, is it? But what do we want to get? We will create a legal basis, a legal precondition such as sportsmen in Serbia, Croatia, all over Europe that eventually one day some talent through this law, among other things, develops into a top athlete. And that's the point. So the whole story can be understood whether or not we are going to provide BiH athletes with a legal basis based on which they can develop, as athletes in other countries do. And I remind - I am talking exclusively about the BiH law with which BiH athletes go to Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13967	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. I'm sorry, Reverend Okolić was supposed to, but do you want to let him go, or are you going to?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13968	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13969	Here you are, dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, esteeming time and given this amendment, will try very briefly to give my opinion. And I wish there was no policy in sports, but it is my wish and desire for some who have declared themselves here, but unfortunately I have to realize that most will agree that it is in sport when it is one of the important segments of every country. And maybe we went by the wrong method and we wanted to make a law on sport, and to say that there is no policy involved, that there is no policy present, and we probably came at one bad moment, where I am not sure what the outcome of the vote on this sport law, for which I would like to be adopted as soon as possible and be as acceptable for all of BiH. So I propose that the policy attempt be brought into line about this sport law because it certainly is and may not be bad for these proposals to be agreed by the amendment's promoters and to see what can be adopted from these amendments and what can simply be withdrawn. If we do not do so, then we will assume the outcome of voting on this law and I would like this law to come to light as soon as possible, but I am telling you, that is my opinion – that without political consent it will not be possible to be adopted. Thank you very much. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13971	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13972	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to say one thing that we never used to say here in Parliament. I am obliged, I think, to thank Minister Sredoje Nović for the way he monitors the fate of legal projects that come from his ministry through the Council of Ministers to the BiH Parliament. I said it last time on this committee: this is the fifth or sixth law to be discussed by the ministry and every time at the session of this committee, it sits directly by the minister and worrys about it for a few hours. I want to say it in public, it's fair to say it in public here. And that, of course, I will tell anyone else who acts that way. The other thing I'm saying is that this law has at least two very serious problems that have led to amendments being intervened. I personally think it would be good if we could adopt the law in BiH in the way it is advocated here, among other things, by distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović. This is not a question for me, nor for a good part of this Parliament, perhaps for most of this Parliament, but decisions are made as they are made and need to seek an appropriate solution that will satisfy at least a minimum of what needs to be arranged, and on the other hand have a pass-by in Parliament, given the way in which it is decided. And that's why I regret that we're in this condition. There's nothing I can do to change that. What I'm saying is that this law has two problems that make it unacceptable or I won't say impossible, that it hasn't responded to the amendments to the law. The first is a problem regarding how institutions, state institutions are created. This law for the first time, and it is one of the few laws in BiH that predicts so-called. A productive or executed way of forming institutions, instead of the original way of forming institutions, instead of the institution being created by law itself, promotes the obligation of some other institutions to form an institution that we establish by law. It's something that, when viewed from a legal point of view, is unacceptable when it comes to the establishment of these state institutions. No, there can't be, when the law is passed, this derivative or executed way of forming an institution but only a source. We're the ones making decisions. This is a problem, a serious problem that has been highlighted by the amendments and we have corrected this lack of amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Commission that is following a whole set of these amendments. And the other thing is continuity. Be careful, this law, as proposed, did not resolve the continuity of institutions, so those institutions that exist. He made a vacuum, which is a very serious question. As a legislator, we cannot produce a worse state than what we now have. That thing could be even worse if it hadn't responded to the amendments. It would be left behind, something would be left in some suspense. That's what I'm thinking, dr. A Genjac spoke here, that must be taken care of when the laws are written. This has also led to an amendment to this point. I had the need to say these few sentences to know why we, here's me or most of whose composition I was, opted to do it this way. 38 However, I also see that the law does not exist, do we... we can now leave the matter to the vote, leave it... to that procedure in which the amendments are likely to be rejected or... may some of them pass, but I think these are quite certainly rejected or probably rejected and at the end of that there will be no appropriate majority to adopt the law. That's why I don't think it would be good... to move on now in this decision-making phase, to try to consider the fate of this law on the basis of what Vice President Lozančić was talking about. But don't make it a Constitutional Commission. Take you as a College, we have so far said what we think and don't do it again... we do it, take it as a College or form one group of three people who will sit down and talk to the applicants of the amendment and see if by consensus, then by consensus, I can find a solution. I don't, say, mind if we see another possibility, another chance so that we don't... come into a situation today that the Law on Sports in BiH hasn't been adopted. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13973	Thank you. If there are no reports, I would allow the opportunity for the respected Minister Nović, if need be, to say something about this, if not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13974	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, it's hard to have something wise to say in front of such an authoritative gathering, and it would be pretentious that I can change a lot of what I am today, and not just today for many months but, I would say, and listen, follow and analyze. I want to be very clear. You know very well this law was created in conditions that are exactly the way BiH is. On the condition that much could not be agreed on, or the initial phase of adoption of this law, and tried to reach one law project that could satisfy both the interests of BiH and athletes, above all, but that it also respects the constitutional provision of BiH currently as it is. I want to tell you that... this task force was composed of entity sports ministries, of the authority of those which these ministries had and that many of these amendments and amendments made today were subject to review and then. Of course, there are some that are completely new proposals, etc. And if it hadn't been for that time, there was a consensus that came to light that the law would have been proposed along with all the many proposals that others had proposed. To such text, such text of the law is addressed to the Council of Ministers who unanimously accepted and there were no objections from any member of the Council of Ministers to the text of the law itself. But, of course, without the pretense that man says that this or that text is good, and that is why there are parliaments that create politics here, adopt legal regulations and can, and are qualified, propose different solutions. It is up to you to identify yourself from both political and other points of view, both possible and necessary. Unfortunately, we have seen many times that our needs are very high, and our possibilities are very low. I'd be, I don't want to comment on amendments one by one, but I just have to... look back on some. It doesn't have to be pretentious and think that the Sport Act is comprehensive, which can resolve all of this earth's issues of sport. Why do we pretend that the Sport Act solves the issues of violence on sports grounds? It's a huge complex of issues to be solved. It won't solve one member, two or five members. I personally think that it is necessary to pass a completely 39 special law on preventing sports violence, because it is already at a stage when we cannot wait for that law. And today I have also heard suggestions here and with due care our ministry will consider and enter the procedure safely to offer one of these texts. So it's worth a comprehensive look at one problem. You know, I can't easily accept, maybe because of the profession that I am, that the Sport Act regulates the compensation of athletes who will... break their legs on sports grounds. It's not the law on sports. We need to understand that some things have been settled by the Law on Bonds, and that's what the students of law have learned, at the second year already, what sport is and how in sports competitions if there's an injury whether he willingly agreed to play because, etc., that I, for you now, would not be correct – I'm implying something else. At the very end I'll tell you: I'll be very sorry if the Sport Act, if you wouldn't have been adopted. Not because of me, not because of my ministry or the Council of Ministers, not because of you, but because of those you are talking about here today, because of thousands of BiH athletes who are eager to wait for this law and I do not agree absolutely with those who say this is no law, that no law has been offered. I respect everyone's opinion, but I speak my mind, my opinion. So, I urge you to take another look at, within the parliamentary procedure at your disposal – do not miss the opportunity to take advantage of all our abilities and flexibility and political wisdom and what the public of BiH, primarily sports, expects of you, expects of all of us who mean something in BiH at different levels, levels of government. I'd be very surprised if we had a proposal for a law on sports to experience the fate of police reform. Everything or nothing in BiH is never good. I appreciate that we have to step by step, because if we had adopted what many have agreed on four years ago, we would have already entered a new phase of conversation today. There's only so much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13975	I would like to thank the Minister for the explanation and the time he obviously used for coming to this session and if we know that the session and the Council of Ministers. One proposal went in the direction of taking a break, so they would try to bring the amendments in line. I think it is a better proposal that the Constitutional Commission, working as a subcommittee, as part of the Honorable Member of Genjac, Honorable Ambassador Kalabić and honourable Ambassador Raguž, with amendments and with the Council of Ministers, try until the next session to find ways to see which of these amendments can be accepted, which can be accepted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? I think it's necessary to say that it's a constitutional subcommittee since if we're going to form an ad hoc commission, then we're going to have to give tasks to the ad hoc commission, it's already a business procedure. It would be so easy to get out of this if we didn't have to, so let's talk about it now. But here's Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13977	Although I am making it difficult, in the end, I support it to be Dr. Genjac, Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Raguž. So it's not a questionable thing and the essence, so it's not at all controversial, I'm just asking that we don't ruin the content with some inappropriate form now. And so I tell you to form simply, or suggest to us, I will vote for it to form a three-member working group composed of these three people who will sit with the applicants of the amendments and with representatives and with the minister and consensus to try to reach a solution very easily. There is no Constitutional Commission of the Subcommittee, no commissions have subcommittees, don't let us get into trouble. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13978	They have commissions and subcommittees, but it doesn't matter. Anyway, does Dom agree? I call upon the House to organize, form a working group in the composition that I have stated, in which I have stated and that until the next session, working as a working group... Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13979	Well, I'd just be begging for that proposal a business foothold. We got him somewhere, that? If we have in the Rules of Procedure, I will support, of course, to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13980	Of course I expected one of the MPs to be looking for a business foothold. The business foothold here is of good faith. A goodwill that everyone in their presentations has shown that we are not voting on amendments right now, but to show a good will for this task force to sit with this ministry, and the minister himself has shown a good will to do so. Of course, by voting here on this proposal we will see whether there is a business foothold or not. But here's Ambassador Džaferović asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13981	Well, of course there's a business foothold. So does a colleague, Novaković. So all the questions that are not settled in this Rules of Procedure are governed by the decision of this House. We are you, the sick, who bring the Rules of Procedure; therefore, there is a provision there..., I will show it to you, which says: That all the questions that are not arranged, the House of They... decides ad hoc. Therefore, nothing can be said to this home that no business has been done. I mean, don't be children, if, then, there is. So much and thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13982	...respective MPs, if no one else has anything to do with the Rules of Procedure? Is the Honorable Ambassador Okolić the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13983	I suggest that instead of this commission it be to the Kolegijum. I also respect your burden and your busyness, but I think it deserves attention because it's one serious law, a law that we all expect to be, and maybe it's the Kolegijum that he's trying to get along with the amendment investors this and that the next assembly gets that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13984	Thank you for your proposal. However, we will vote first on that first proposal. If he gets most of it, then we'll vote on your proposal. I call on the House to make a statement about a proposal that had just been elaborated. Please prepare to vote. To vote now! "For" 26, "against" five, "abstained", two, with an entity majority -- I find the proposal has passed. Moving to the 7th point of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law establishing a criminal sanctions, detention and other measures (first reading) The proposal for this law was delivered in the procedure in 12.9.2007. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. It's being considered in a regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission is in charge. We received our opinion on October 8, 2007. You have seen that this commission has found that there is a valid constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, because it has supported the principles of this law. I'm opening a debate on this law. However, before the debate, I would like to ask the Proposer, in front of the promoter here, I see Deputy Minister of Honor Mr Srđan Arnaut, to explain the bill to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13986	Thank you very much. The Honored Chairman and Honorable MPs, the Law establishing the BiH Institute for Criminal Penalty, Detainment and Long Measures, is in fact the establishment of a new BiH institution, which would serve to enforce criminal sanctions in BiH, means what the BiH Court condemns. Of course, it should be said at first that 42 BiH law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures spoke of by MP Dokić. This system law with over two hundred members... regulates a number of system issues of detention and detention. So, by one relatively short law of fourteen members, we determine that an Executive Office is being established as a administrative organisation within the Ministry. And what is the specificity of an institution like this? You can start the ministry, rent a business space, hire people and have the ministry start working. However, you can't set up a criminal sanctions institute in this way. So the prison has to be made, and then he'll start working. Therefore, if we exempt from the general provisions of this law... which speak about the headquarters of the Institute and where it is situated in the legal system, these other provisions are more or less of a time-consuming nature and regulate the procedure of the establishment of the Institute itself, and ultimately it is concluded that the Council of Ministers will determine the start date of work. So, when it's all over and the investment ends, it's going to determine the start of this institution's work. That's why we opted for a brief substantive law which, I say, two-thirds after the construction was completed practically ceases to exist. That's why we didn't burden or burden the system law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13987	I thank the Deputy Minister. I see Ambassador Novaković has signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13988	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that I can respect the reasons why in this country we have a criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, and therefore we have respected these reasons by adopting the Law on Criminal Penalty. I don't think it's a common position here in Parliament to leave it to the Council of Ministers to do something, and he won't do it, but he wants Parliament to do it, or that he has the powers to give to Parliament. And this law has given him the authority to resolve this issue without a new law. What's symptomatic of all this or what's unnecessary? Here, I'd like to see if the current prisons, to translate that into our own language, are based on the laws. All those who exist in BiH? Or imagine we formed a SIPA, then passed a law on building for the SIPA! Or that we have an army, and we have a casarean law, and we have one law at a time! I wish someone could tell me how many of these are... cases in the world, or how many prisons in the world are formed by a special law. Furthermore, there are some things the Council of Ministers has done and done under the Code of Criminal Penalty. So let's say, a million-and-a-half marks were paid for the infrastructure where the Bureau would be before this law, so the Supervisory Board was formed before this law, so the Implementation Unit was formed, or, I don't know, what it's called and where there's a director to build this. All this has already been done by the Council of Ministers, and then after that, it proposes a law to which it will do so, which it has already done or may be a problem of the composition of the Committee of People who are already working there, and then it is easier to resolve it by adopting the law, and then by filling in – in 43 according to the new law – the Supervisory Board, etc. I think that indeed the Ministry can find very difficult reasons to refer this law to the procedure and I would ask my colleagues not to stop the process that is already under way, which is the process of building the Institute, in accordance with the decisions of the Council of Ministers that have been made. If someone doesn't like it there, this Council of Ministers can change it, so if he doesn't like the name and name, change the name and last name; it's not their first. Well, they're changing ambassadors, and we can't change board members. So, it would be good if we didn't stop this process, but we continued it to realize and create this institution, and that this bill was withdrawn from the procedure; it could, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and of course we're not questioning ourselves now, i.e. in question already passed laws in which we have defined this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13989	Thank you. Since there are no more reported, so I don't; there is a honourable MP Ajanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13990	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. What my predecessor was saying, I can't really find an expression, but that's not true. In order for any institution to be formed, or institute, there must be a law on forming it, because who will be the title holder of it rather than the founder. Therefore, it is logical that this law goes into procedure and it is logical to bring it into parliamentary procedure. You take any clinical center in BiH, it was in the RS or it was in the Federation, it was in Doboj or Maglai or I don't know where, there must be a certain regulation on the founding and founder. Therefore, this law on the establishment of the Institute for Criminal Penalty and not to read it further, he, this assembly is authorized and it is then due to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13991	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica, incorrect quote, anything?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13992	Well, you see, a short one replica. Look, all we have to say is that by adopting this law, we're going to get lucky prisoners. You know, they'll be happy to be in this prison, and they won't be in another prison, because... this prison has its founder. Look, I don't think the argument really stands, no one has anything against that there's a BiH-level institute; there's a court, there's a prosecution, there's criminal measures being imposed, people are going to be in jail, defined... The law on the execution of criminal sanctions; the Council of Ministers has done everything to implement that provision of the law. Now what is not clear to me is real; now it is not clear to me whether or not the Founder is known. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13993	Thank you. Since we have a business opportunity to be discussed by the honourable MP Novaković that the Council of Ministers has the right to withdraw the proposal by the end of the debate, I will give the opportunity to the honourable deputy to plead on this proposal so that we can conclude the debate and vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13994	Thank you very much. I don't think things should be caricated, whether it's about happy and unhappy prisoners, because the situation in BiH's criminal system, at least according to the European Committee on Tortocra Prevention, is not good at all. Therefore, it is true that there is a law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, such as the fact that this law has not more specifically determined the establishment and legal status of the institution, its headquarters and other issues related to the establishment of an institution and the start of work. So he didn't determine the title from which whoever founded it was. That, what I've read now, is the opinion of the Bureau of Law at the Council of Ministers. So when I talk about investment, it's about 15m euros, fourteen and a half million. So we're entering a serious investment, and you're right: land has been purchased, but eventually, there must be an institution, and, by the laws of BiH, there is no institution unless you have established it. We're just saying that the Institute is being set up, that we're going to invest 15m euros and that the moment the Institute is finished, when it's finished, the Council of Ministers will say - the Institute is finished, or the prison is over, the institution is starting to act. You don't want us to invest 15 million euros, so let's open up a question about the founder and the establishment of the Institute. So, simply, in our conversation with donors, we have explained our position, it is supported by the adoption of the law in the interview with the High Representative, we have also explained our position and we have positive opinions of the Office of Law, the Ministry of Finance, we have a positive opinion, in the end, of the Constitutional Commission, and it would really be easier if the Council of Ministers, if it wanted, had changed the Governing Board. Through this law, no new personal solutions can be seen or desired, at least I don't know about them. So, what I'm saying is, someone said-- Here's what they want to change... The Implementation Unit or members of the Management Board - is absolutely not the object of this law. If it wanted to change, it would have already been done. So we really promised the donors... that we would pass this law and I really don't see any reason why they wouldn't pass the law where we have a legal entity. If this parliament thinks it can go into an investment of 15 million euros and has no legal entity, then that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13995	Thank you. From your discussion, I have concluded that the motionary does not intend to withdraw this law. And, if no one is answering, I am concluding the debate and I call on Parliament to declare its proposal for a law establishing a criminal sanctions, detention and other measures. Please prepare to vote. 45 You can vote. Now! "For" 15, "against" three, "abstained", seven, with an insufficient entity majority. The college is unable to comply at the moment. Parliament will be notified within the legal time limit. .... Thank you. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Ministry Act and other bodies of Bosnia and Herzegovina's administration The proposal for this law was delivered in the procedure in 12.9.2007. He's the Proposer of the Council of Ministers. It's also being considered in a regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission is in charge; you received an opinion on 8 October 2007 and this commission has found that there is a constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. I would ask the Proposer – I am opening a debate – that if on behalf of the Proposer there is a need to explain this bill. Is there someone involved? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13997	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, the reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the fact that the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of the Office for Cooperation with Interpol is intended as a basic organisational unit of the Agency. For this reason, it was necessary to delete in this law a provision stipulating that the Office for Cooperation with Interpol is also a special service within the Ministry of Security and the fact that, in the meantime, the Service for Foreign Affairs has been established and is not defined in this law, that in the membership of the Ministry of Security as an administrative organisation and the fact that the State Border Service has changed the name that now BiH Border Police is BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13998	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a hearing? Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u13999	Dear Mr. President, honored guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, in the light of this legislative proposal, that is, for reasons of adoption, it cannot be said that the essential arguments about the need for such... amendments to the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration are seen. I think these are the reasons that are listed here and this argument, first of all, opens up... a number of other questions. 46 The first question arises: Why is the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, as such, not in line with the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Administration? Why wasn't there a change in it? No arguments are offered that if this Interpol Co-operation Office becomes only part of the Agency for Investigation and Protection, not the organisational whole of the ministry, that it is more functional, that it is more practical and that the work of the Office will be more efficient. On the contrary, I believe that a more functional and efficient approach would be to make the Office for Cooperation with Interpol an independent administrative organisation of this ministry, since data and information for its work should be drawn from both the Agency for Investigation and Protection and from the Foreign Affairs Service and from the Border Police. You should, in my opinion, have the same treatment and the same level of organisation as these units at this ministry. Here, given that this is the first stage, the first reading, I believe that the proposer of such changes should offer answers to these questions and explain why such a structure is more functional and why this legal conflict has not been resolved, since it is obviously a conflict in two different legal proposals in reverse order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14000	Thank you. ... Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14001	So here we are also to touch ourselves a little bit, given that this explanation was a little bit of a joke, and I think that the members of the 6th, 7th and 10th are in some way controversial because, too, I think that this solution can be changed and that the competent Interpol Co-operation Office should not only be tied to the Agency for Investigation and Protection, because I think the other police authorities also have the need for equal treatment and that kind of co-operation, and I expect that at this amendment stage this ministry... will have an understanding of these views and change them in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14002	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14003	Mr. Chairman, I just want to warn you of one fact, since we are discussing this law in our first reading, and since what I'm about to say is true for these laws that we are discussing after this law. It is, in fact, a new practice by the Council of Ministers that the constitutional basis does not define. Namely, both this and the following laws state that the constitutional basis is contained in Article IV 4.a) of the BiH Constitution that is given, meaning the right of the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt laws. When the Council of Ministers writes it like this, then I get the impression that they'd rather take it away from us and take it right, because they're pointing it here as the only constitutional basis for all these laws. It's not like the laws we've passed so far, and one of them is this one, he didn't have a constitutional basis, and it wasn't that hard to rewrite, if anything, the constitutional basis when we passed the laws under that law, because then we supported the constitutional basis for the law. And, you see, that's what we have on the next set of laws. I do not know if we in Parliament are ready 47 to discuss the laws in the first reading in such a way or whether we need to warn the Council of Ministers that it must specify the constitutional basis of the law before proposing it on the Constitutional Commission. You know, we on the Constitutional Legal Commission very simply solved it by putting the need for law above constitutional basis and saying: we need this law. And some of them have determined that for them, what doesn't say is enough, the others have determined that what's written for them is little and what's written for them, and in that way we've come to the law, or constitutional basis for these laws. The following my remarks refer again to this, not to speak, and to the following laws, which would be correct; it is not an obligation, but it would be correct of the motion that, with the text of amendments to the law, the members of the basic law to which the amendments apply, so that we MPs would not find themselves in a situation that we have to list official messengers from a few years ago. This, first of all, is not a difficult job and secondly, would make it easier for us and the relationship to the law, meaning, and understanding of this matter, so before the largest number of us has some archives, in which there are official messengers from three, four, five or more years ago. It seems to me we don't even need to have that if we have a bill promoter when it comes to the Council of Ministers. If it were an MP, then he might understand, but indeed the Council of Ministers, this way when he proposes, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14004	Thank you. If there are no more reported, I would allow the deputy, respected Deputy Security Minister Miji Krešić to say something about this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14005	Well, look, this law is about the next two laws that we need... that are here today on the agenda. Here is the constitutional basis: the basic text is defined on the constitutional basis and here is and has passed the Constitutional Legal Commission which gave a positive position against this law. And this I agree, here, that the failure, that we should deliver the basic, means the basic text of the amendments; it is about the amendment of one article, Article 14, where it stood, means that in the composition of this ministry as an administrative organisation are the State Border Service and the Office for Investigation and Protection and Interpol Office as an independent service. So it's... the original text, and now it would read in this proposed form that was given here in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14006	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We are now voting on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration – Law No. 01-02-9-47-1/07 since 12.9.2007. I call upon the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! “For” 18, “against” was not, eight “abstained.” The law got the required majority and was adopted. 48 We move to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered the bill from this point on 17 September 2007. It's being considered in a regular procedure. On 8 October, the Constitutional Commission delivered its Opinion on constitutional law. The Joint Defence and Security Commission is in charge. The opinion of the committee responsible on the principles of the bill was delivered on 8 October this year. As you have seen, the Commission has supported the principles of this bill. I am opening a debate on this law and I am calling on the Proposer, if necessary, to explain the bill's proposal. Dear Deputy Minister Mijo Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14008	When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH, the reasons for the adoption of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH stems from the fact that the current application of the provisions of this law has shown and highlighted certain ambiguities, i.e. certain interferences in the effective application of them. The observed problems... have diminished the efficient and transparent work of police officers in police bodies. In this regard, the provisions of Article 1(1) shall apply. The law, and as a list of means of coercion, has been added by official dogs. It is known that the use of specially trained dogs in the police sense is inevitable, i.e. all police authorities use them for the successful fight against various types and forms of crime. Article 2 is replaced by the following: The law has been brought into line with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. The current solution to the processing of personal data given in the law is unacceptable from the position of police authorities, in terms of adequate conduct of operations and tasks to combat crime. The adoption of the Data Protection Act provides a general framework for rules for the processing of personal data, all in accordance with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Persons, with an emphasis on automated processing of personal data, and in accordance with the guidelines of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of natural persons in the context of the processing of personal data, and with the freedom of movement and use of such data. In this connection, it was also necessary to agree with the Council of Europe's recommendation, to determine the use of data in the police sector, and to meet the conditions for membership in the Schengen Group as well as membership in EUROPOL. In this context, an amendment to Article 33 has been made. Laws, personal data processing. They added new articles that regulate, more specifically, issues such as the processing of personal data for police purposes, the use of personal data, data-holder rights, the processing of personal data of deceased people, the publication of personal data. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The draft amendment and supplementation of the Act is an clarified and precise provision relating to the way in which the vacancy of police officers in the act of a younger inspector is filled in, with the intention of making it more operational for the vacancy of the posts for the act of a younger inspector. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law relating to the appointment of the Commission for the selection and exercise of probationary work – it is proposed to create conditions for efficient work, to conduct the election of candidates for police officers, to perform the probationary work of police officers. It is important to note that the amendments and additions of this law have been consulted with the authorised representatives of police agencies. The consultation and coordination of these amendments and additions with representatives of international organisations overseeing the work and providing professional assistance to police agencies in BiH, as well as to the professional institutions of BiH in certain areas (the Personal Data Protection Commission) have also been carried out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14009	Thank you. Of the reported, honourable Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14010	You see, I would like this law to pass a little bit and the procedure of our Human Rights Commission. I'm not, I'm not an expert in this area, so I can't talk about this Article 33a) from that position, but I think it would be good to look at it, first of all, because police, like any other police force, means, is trying, and this one, too, is trying to provide as much data as possible, often and not choosing funds, and sometimes endangering human rights. So it would be a good idea for this segment, too, from the position of that commission, to get a little insight. Secondly, I think that, for example, in Article 33a) d) says (... let's say in the last sentence): the collection of these personal data can only be carried out if necessary for the purposes of a particular investigation. Who's the one who says it's necessary... for that? So we should clearly define who it is who says that this particular investigation is necessary, in order for police officers to have the right to collect these data, and that, in doing so, I said, they do not endanger any other right defined by European conventions. In the amendment phase, too, they should act on Article 33.b) where the positions (2), (3), (4) and (5), I think, should be singled out as a special member before Article 33a) in order to have a systematic collection, use, or use of data. But that's something for the amendment phase. That's not why I came forward, but first of all to suggest to the College that it would be a good idea for this law to be taken into account, so in this commission, that... as competent, once the committee in charge delivers the report, we get that report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14011	Thank you. If there isn't... _________(?) 50 [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute, wait a minute. We have 21 present, it takes another MP to have a quorum. I'll ask the services to call the MPs so we can vote, not take a break, because, as we agreed, we'll be working until 15.00 hours. Please be patient. ... MP Novaković that our Joint...... the Human Rights Committee is considering this, but she also has a business presence, has the possibility that, as an unauthorized commission, she is making amendments to this matter, so here we will suggest this opportunity that she, as an unauthorized commission, participates in the debate on this law. Since Ambassador Kadrić has arrived, we have now, and Jovičić, now we have the quorum. Please prepare to vote. We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of BiH. Please prepare for the vote. We vote now! I see how it came out. "For" 23, "against" was not, "abstained" two -- I find that this law has been passed. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14014	In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, in the past period, the Office for Cooperation with Interpol has acted as an independent service within the Ministry of Security. By signing the Agreement on Police Cooperation between BiH and EUROPOL as well as by achieving international police co-operation in other areas (SEKE, SIRENE), there have been interpretations to allow the centralisation of international police cooperation, meaning Interpol, EUROPOL, SEKE and other forms if they appear, in a single organisational structure in the state police body, which is standard European practice. With this in mind, amendments and additions to this law, in order to carry out the tasks of international police cooperation, not only with Interpol but also with EUROPOL and 51 SEKA, it is proposed to move Interpol to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, which would be organised, which would function as a separate department. Such a department would be called the Department of International Police Cooperation. Due to the specificity of the operations carried out by certain civil servants and employees in SIPA, which are directly related to the tasks performed by police officers, the need for the working-law status of a certain number of civil servants and employees to be governed in a different way than that provided for by the BiH State Service Act and the BiH Labour Act. It is proposed that the Director of SIPAs, the Internal Organization Regulations, establish a number of civil servants and employees who, due to the specificity of these posts and their close links with the tasks carried out by police officers, will have additional cash compensation. The amount of additional cash compensation will be determined by the Director by a special decision. In view of the fact that during the past period SIPA has had some problems in filling these jobs, we believe that this issue will solve what will further affect the efficient work of this agency. In addition, amendments and additions to the laws required harmonisation of provisions relating to the appointment of the director and deputy director of SIPA, and to comply with the provisions of the Law on Police Officers of BiH. It is proposed that the appointment process of directors and deputy directors be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Police Officers of BiH and the Law on Ministerial Names, the appointments of the Council of Ministers and other appointments of BiH. Unlike so far, it is proposed that... the future director of the SIPA... schedules the assistant director of the Criminal and Investigation Department and assistant director for internal control. Given that SIPA, in the context of its operations under its jurisdiction, has the need to make available to certain financial resources under the Specific Purpose Programme, it was necessary to provide for the possibility for the SIPA Director to adopt an appropriate regulation on the basis of which the means of use of those funds will be regulated. In the past, SIPA has had some difficulties in using these funds, and in some cases it has been in a situation that it has not been able to achieve its, by law established, jurisdiction, which has made it difficult to solve certain cases.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14015	I thank the esteemed Deputy Minister of Security Mr. Miji Krešić for his comprehensive explanation. Dear Ambassador Okolić has come to see you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14016	Of course, there is a need to amend and supplement a law like this, but here it is necessary to act as an amendment, which is why I am warning, since this is the first reading, of some things that may have given too much freedom or too much... to the director of this agency. I primarily mean it when it comes to stimulating certain officers and transposing officers into the police that it is necessary, but perhaps it should define exactly who can do all this, so that it is not possible and the will of a man – director. Perhaps this should be defined in which ways and in which proposals, etc., if he will make the final decision, then also in the fill of these specific jobs and it is problematic – whether to give so many rights only to the director that he will complete it without certain consultations or certain proposals and also 52 needs to define exactly this special fund that the SIPA needs. I claim it is necessary, but it needs to be defined in which way to formulate it, which height and who can control these funds. Otherwise, in certain European Union countries, it is discriminatory where there is no control over these funds whether or not necessary, it is going towards that, in a very small number of countries, that a fund of certain or commissions or institutions or people in front of parliament can be controlled. In this regard, it will probably need an amendment to act, and this law can in principle pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14017	Thank you. I don't have any more deputies on the display to discuss. I hereby conclude the debate and call on Parliament to declare itself on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection in First Reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" was not, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority – I find that this law passed in the first reading. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Honorable MP Drago Kalabić The law is in first reading. On 21 September 2007, Ambassador Drago Kalabić submitted the bill to the procedure. It's a regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission is in charge of reviewing this law and has been delivered to you on 8 October, which the Commission found to be a valid constitutional basis and has accepted the principles of the proposed law. I am opening a debate on this law in my first reading and I am calling on the Proposer, if necessary, to explain the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14019	Very short. You have seen what the aim of this law is: that one practice which is otherwise present in other legislative solutions where the Council of Ministers sets out certain positions and appointments; we have here, not having entered into the motive of the solution so far, that the Director of the Economic Planning Directorate is to confirm its appointment in this Parliament. We believe that there is no need for this to be done but that it has exactly the same status as the other officials and that the Council of Ministers is doing so. There you go. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14020	Thank you. If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. I call on Parliament to plead on the draft law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" one, "abstained" was not, with a sufficient entity majority – I find that this law has been passed. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Report by the Joint Commission on an effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Medium Education I remind you: October 8th, we received the Joint Commission's report on the alignment of the Bill's proposal. By adopting seven amendments, the Commission agreed the same text of the Agency Act. I'm opening a debate about the report. If there are no reports, I'm closing the hearing. And now we're voting on the report: if the report gets most of it, that's how we got this bill. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 18, "against" two, "abstained", four, with a sufficient entity majority -- I find that the report has been adopted and this law has been passed. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Joint Commission Report on Efforts to reach Agreement on Preschool Education and Education Framework Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14025	That's right. I'll just say that we have 12 institutions left. So very briefly: we have sent all these institutions recommendations to the auditors and they are obliged to inform the Commission and this Parliament for the other shortcomings. And we, after these last 12, will do a detailed analysis that we will provide to Parliament and the Council of Ministers. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14026	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14027	So I'll just look back, because I knew about it would be a conclusion, that we'll have... together everything about the reports and I know that we'll say that certain institutions that, come on, didn't respect the audit opinions -- that this material should be forwarded to the prosecution as well. I must tell you that I was here at the seminar about, exactly, the establishment of the BiH authorities and when we asked that question because there were also the prosecutor... and we received the answer that this should not be forwarded to the prosecution but should be forwarded to the police and investigation authorities. So I'd ask you to transfer that burden from the D.A.'s office once in those discussions, when this commission is here. And they say: then we ask the police, the SIPA and the others, and the SIPA and these should literally give an opinion whether or not these institutions should be given. So he would just ask that the conclusion in that sense: when they are final, what needs to be done and... what is suspected, to go to the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14028	Thank you. I think this is a correct, correct proposal. If there are no more reports, I call on the House to declare that we are voting on our commission's report and on the overall reports of all the audits, so as not to waste time on individual reports. Please prepare for the loudspeakers. You can vote. Now! "For" 22, "against" was not, "abstained", one with a sufficient entity majority – I agree that the proposal was accepted to vote in the package. And now we are voting on the reports of the Office for Audit, with the report and the Commission's conclusions and with this addition, which the honourable Mr Bešlagić added. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! 56 "For" 23, "against", there were no "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority – we adopted the report of the Office for Audit with the Report and the conclusions of the Commission. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: Information on the rationalisation of the BiH DKP network, the decisions made, the criteria for their decision-making, the effects of the decisions taken, and further steps in this area – the proposal, pardon, we skipped one item of the agenda. Ad. 16. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 31.1.2007 to 31.7.2007, with the proposal for a conclusion You've received some material from this commission. Is there any of this committee to explain? If not, I'm opening a debate about this agenda point. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14030	...here you see, this last diagram here where you talk about the number of taken, let's say, citizenship and you have one interesting piece of information, says: the number taken away, taken away, and there was no reason to subtract. This: there was no reason to take away! Could there be an explanation: Why there was no reason, but it was taken away!? I think it's very interesting, because that's the point. I'd like to get that. Yeah, yeah, last part, last part.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14031	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have to realize there's no one on this committee right now. Here, a representative is invited, if he comes in in the meantime, he might answer your question. We should vote after the debate, meaning the State Commission Report itself, given that the report is also about the conclusions of our Joint Commission, which you received as a Report. We can, then, take a five-minute break to wait if any of this committee comes. But, please, given that working hours are up to 15.00 hours, that we're already in the tea room – that it's five minutes. Five minutes break. 57 [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats, we have a quorum. A representative of this commission, the deputy deputy minister, has arrived, Pandurović. He could answer the question of the honourable MP Bešlagić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14034	Here, I think on the last page, on the final page of your report in the chart that says this: the number taken away and there was no reason to subtract. So you can even see in some places that the number was taken away and there were no reasons the same, such as the Ministry of Justice and... the BiH administration, the number of people taken away and there was no reason to be the same. Because that's what this is about, because it's what two people get together now, so it's either that's what it is: that those who had no reason to take away their citizenship. Not a clear diagram, last diagram.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14035	Thank you. Please step outside for a pay phone to answer this question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14036	Thank you. In fact, although it is not a very clear question that Mr Bešlagić asked me in a certain way, but I can only say this: therefore, in the total number of cases that this commission has taken into consideration... there are numbers, so a number of cases where this commission has adopted a solution to the confiscation and a certain number of cases have been found to have no reason...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14037	Thank you. You gave me an explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14038	That's it. In all, it is, in that number, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14039	Thank you. If there are no more reports for the hearing, I hereby conclude the debate and suggest that the House be made aware of the State Commission's report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! 58
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14040	With conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14041	Of course, it implies the conclusions of our commission. "For" 19, "against" was not, seven "abstained", sufficient entity majority – I find that a State Commission report was adopted, with the conclusions of our Joint Commission. And now we in the College have been considering how to continue this session. The proposal is to go to the vote on the 21st and 22nd agendas, the two final points of the agenda. Let's finish what's not controversial, and then we'll stop the session, and then we'll start that sequel later. So I'm asking the House if it agrees with the Kolegijum's proposal to continue this session in this way. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 23, "against" was not, "abstained" three, a sufficient entity majority. So Dom decided to bring this session to an end. Now we're on the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Proposal for a Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH's conclusion: (a) to address the issue of surplus small and light weapons and ammunition in BiH, (b) to address problems in the work of the BiH Border Police You have received a proposal for the Joint Commission's conclusion. I'm opening a debate. If there are no reports, please state under a) and b) the conclusions of our Joint Defence and Security Commission. Please prepare to vote. _________(?) Was it a) and b)? [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14045	I would ask if you, as chairman and the College, could give a response after the ratification, means when all ratification is completed: Who gives consent to the ratification agreements published in the "Official Journal of BiH"? Because according to the regulations until they're published in the Official List, these contracts for us are in fact... not valid. That's what I'm saying because... it's on someone, and it's going to be my question when we have a joint session, some important contracts that have been ratified, and haven't been published, we can't, for example, get legal aid from Europe, or from the Council of Europe today. So I would ask you – don't, it has nothing to do with this; but it's very important that we know – if we ratify, if he goes through all the ratification procedure: Who gives a press release in the "Official List" and, who is responsible if he is not published in the "Official List"? There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14046	Thank you. Here's to taking the opportunity to thank Mr. Sven Alkalaj's distinguished foreign minister for being here with us today and if anyone from his ministry can, or if he can answer this question himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14047	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, yes, I will answer this question very briefly. After ratification, implementation of the ratification process, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the Assembly's Professional Service, which is required to deliver immediately, delivers all publication agreements, they forward "To the Official Messenger", "The Official Messenger". However, here is to explain a little bit: a large number of contracts are now waiting for publication in the "Official Messenger" for reasons because they are overloaded and 60 because there has been a large number of ratifications lately. They are published in the "Official Messenger" in a special edition: International Treaties. They printed some contracts like CEFTA that was on some 700 pages and we expect them to publish everything. As far as the ministry is concerned, the Ministry passed through the Professional Service all contracts that were ratified... and referred to the delivery of "The Official Messenger". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-11-0.u14048	I thank the esteemed... advisor to Mr. Bogdanović. I think this argument was quite enough. If no one's answering for a debate, I'm closing the debate and I'm asking the House if it's okay if we vote in the package on everything? So, please, let us vote in the agreement package for ratification of all agreements from a) to e. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 28, there were no votes "against" and "abstained". I find that from a) to e) an agreement has been given to ratify all agreements. Please tell you something else. I would like to offer my sincere congratulations to all BiH citizens celebrating tomorrow's Ramadan Bayram holiday, with a desire to celebrate it in peace, prosperity and the best of feelings. Yeah, now we interrupt today's session and by the Rules of Procedure we'll let the House know when it's gonna be a sequel. Probably 30. Thank you. The seat is closed at 14.45. 61
