ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10367	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, media representatives, I am opening the 8th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, once again, I welcome you and I realize that, at least according to what I see on the monitor, the session is attended by 32 MPs. I ask those who have eventually forgotten to insert the card, to do so. Excuse me, 36 MPs, 25 from the Federation, 11 from the RS, so I repeat, if someone hasn't inserted the card, let them do it now. The absence from today's session was justified by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, Mr. Remzija Kadrić and Mr. Sadik Ahmetović. Suggestion, please. Here is the moment, Mr. Jukić, justice, the absence of Mr. Matić, who is also on his way. You received a draft agenda for today's session, however, in the meantime we had meetings and extended colleges and certain circumstances occurred as a consequence of the change in agenda compared to the proposal you received with the materials. Namely, what it's about. I hope you get on the bench this updated, modified agenda. We have downloaded point 5 of the proposal for a law supplementing the Industrial Property Act, Proposer Bešlagić, Mrs Malić, for the reason that the Constitutional Commission has set the deadline by 27th this month so that amendments can be submitted and we were not in a position to shorten that deadline, i.e. to disable the use of the deadline by 27th and so point 5 has been removed from the agenda. In the meantime, we agreed to appoint today the Commission for the Selection of the Texts of the Anthem of three members from the House of Representatives. We already have some suggestions, of course, that you can propose here and the appointment of members, i.e. the replacement of members in committees and delegations, instead of Members Edin Mušić and Vahid Heće. We also received some proposals nominated by parties whose members are committee members and delegations that have suspended the mandate. So these are the changes resulting from the change in circumstances in the interval between the delivery of the first version of the call and this updated call. We have, of course, one previous question, to put it this way, or one solemn act. Instead of Vahid Heće and Edin Mušić, the Central Election Commission assigned mandates to MPs, therefore, qualified candidates, and to Mr Salki Sokolović, from the Party of Democratic Action and Adem Huskić, from the BiH Party list. The new MPs, of course, were invited to the session. I call on Mr Sokolović and Mr Huskić to make a solemn statement and, as of today, take over the rights and duties of MPs in this house. Gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10369	Please follow me. So, I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10370	I declare,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10371	That I would knowingly carry out the duties I was entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10372	That I would knowingly carry out the duties I was entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10373	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10374	Respect Bosnia and Herzegovina Constitution
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10375	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10376	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10377	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10378	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 3 [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10379	I congratulate you. Of course, on behalf of all of you, I hope you'll allow me, I want the successful work of our new two colleagues. So, let's get down to business. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. I find that there are no reports and at the same time I agree that the 8th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Journal of the 7th Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković Lijanović to consider the draft law amending the Law on Value Added Tax under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Home Rules of Procedure, 4. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law (second reading), 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on competition between Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposing Member Milorad Živković (second reading), 6. Proposal for a law on preschool education in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 7. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 8. Financial Report from the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 9. Report on the work of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006, 10. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law Department's work for 2006, 11. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Sadik Ahmetović, proposed at the 7th session of the House, 12. Consideration of the initiative to launch a public campaign against the exploitation of black workers and the establishment of a list of employers who employ black workers - MP Denis Bećirović, 13. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Commission for the selection of the texts of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 14. The appointment of members of the committee and delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly (so, this is about these deputies that I have spoken about in advance) and 15. The Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the acceptance of a person whose stay is against the law, (b) the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia amending the Agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions and criminal matters, (c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Cooperation in the field of education, science and culture, (d) the Agreement on Economic Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, 4 (e) the Strategic Agreement on Co-operation between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 4 (f) The Strategic Agreement on Free Trade between the Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina (EUROPOL) and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Kosovo Agreement between the Council on the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So this is the agenda of today's 8th session. Moving to point one. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 7th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10382	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues, esteemed media representatives. I propose that the Journal of the 7th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH be supplemented in the following; on page 4, the second point, the parliamentary questions and answers, I insisted at the last session, and we accepted that conclusion, which is to deliver to today's session all MPs a list of parliamentary issues, so which parliamentary questions, to whom he asked parliamentary questions, when parliamentary questions were asked. I think we've accepted that, and it should be in this record as well. On page 7, point 9, I'm also asking for it to be entered, because it was actually the way it was in the last session. There was no debate here, therefore, point 9, on page 7, so the vote was immediately held. Before that sentence, I ask that the following sentence be entered: the debate has been signed up by the draft agenda item, MP Denis Bećirović, but the chairman did not allow the debate to be opened, contrary to the practice he applied in point 8 of the agenda. With these, then, two amendments, I suggest that the 7th session minutes be adopted, because that was indeed the case at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10383	I didn't understand you very well. So I didn't let you talk, did I?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10384	Do I need it again?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10385	Well, no, I didn't understand what it was about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10386	Let me explain. The record, therefore, should reflect what was happening at the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10387	Well, I guess we know that, I hope you know that we know that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10388	At point 9, I, therefore, applied for the debate, you did not allow me to open a debate within this agenda point, although at the previous agenda, in the exact same situation we opened the debate. All I'm asking is for it to be written down. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10389	We'll check in the stenogram exactly what it says. So, the service will check both of them and you'll be informed of these remarks you've had.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10390	I apologize, but this depends on how we vote on the zapisnik. You know very well that this is a fact from last session, so we can check it out in the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10391	Of course, it's your right to set yourself up on the record. I can't right now, Mr. Bećirović, I don't have a stenogram, see if that's accurate. So, I can only give a service order to carry out a check and proceed with your interventions, if they are correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10392	And then at the next session, we have accurate information with a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10393	To verify, exactly, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10394	Okay, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10395	Thank you. Here you go. I'm concluding the debate, or the time to comment on the record. So I agree that it undertakes the service that these two remarks made by Mr. Denis Bećirović level with a stenogram and, of course, check the accuracy of the remark and in 6 cases that it is correct, that this house is notified during adoption, at the next session, when the minutes are adopted from today's 8th session. And of course, with all the consequences that such interventions produce. Please, let's get to the record. Vote now. With 33 votes in favour, 2 abstentions, without prejudice, to a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted a record from the 7th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers For this session, questions were answered: MP Snježana Rajilić, from the Directorate for Direct Taxation, the issue asked at the 5th session, Azra Alajbegović of the Institute for Accreditation, the issue asked at the 6th session, Husein Nanić of the BiH Joint Affairs Service, the issue asked at the 7th session, Milorad Živković of the Foreign Minister, the question asked at the 7th session, Slavko Jovičić of the foreign minister, the question asked at the 7th session. So, on issues raised by MPs at the 4th session: Bakir Izetbegović, Šefik Džaferović, Husein Nanić, Drago Kalabić, Sadik Bahtić, Azra Alajbegović, Slavko Jovičić, Branko Dokić and Hadži Jovan Mitrović, it is not responsible. The questions asked at the 5th session by MPs: Sadik Bahtić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Remzija Kadrić, Rifet Dolić and Denis Bećirović, are also not answered. The questions asked at the 6th session: Milorad Živković, Denis Bećirović, Sadik Ahmetović, Snježana Rajilić, part of Slavko Jovičić's issue concerning the Council of Ministers, selo Bešlagić, Husein Nanić, Azra Hadžiahmetović and one issue of Azra Alajbegović, also did not expire. For questions from the 7th session, no answer deadline has expired. So this is the information Mr Bećirović insisted on. Of course, we do not avoid this obligation that has been said to concern the record, and therefore, depending on that intervention, we will do so. So I ask those who have received answers, whether they are satisfied with the answers. Do they have a need for comments? Thank you, please, and Mr. Nanić. I didn't see it. Here you go, Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10397	I understood that I got the answer to one question, and I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10398	I don't know, Mr. Nanić, if it's come to you. I saw him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10399	I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10400	So it's a technical problem, but I don't know how it could have happened. I'm sure it went your way, but here, you can take a look, uh, here, we'll deliver it to you. So, to comment on the answer, Mr. Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10401	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. To correct the wrong assumption first. I've got an answer to the MP's question of mine.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10402	If it wasn't for someone else. You had more MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10403	No, I think this is about this answer to one, we're thinking the same thing. But what's the point? The answer is strictly confidential and I have received it from Minister Sadović and this way of communication cannot be accepted by respecting the reasons, because of the fact that we are asking parliamentary questions, at the same time as MPs we have the right to them and I am putting them on behalf of both the public and in the name of the different interests that can be contained in asking meaning. The parliamentary question is publicly asked and I, uh, ask Mr Sadović who is not here today, to find a way of respecting the procedure at the same time, without remaining that on such a single question I am getting insight, respecting the fact that information is a top secret character from a secure position.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10404	I thank you, Mr. Kalabić. We'll do it. Is Mr. Jovičić's comment on the answer? Now we're on to comments about answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10405	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems that this point will become pointless because I have asked several parliamentary questions and I am asking, which is an institution that can, not say, order, but to oblige all those to whom parliamentary questions have been referred to to in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to answer. Therefore, this is delayed indefinitely, there is no point in asking such questions if these institutions are deafen and do not respect the highest legislative authority of this country. Then the question is, what's the point, not just questions, but what's our point. And to whom we answer, it is known, but it is not known to whom these gentlemen answer, to whom questions are referred. So I don't mean those faces personally, but I mean the institutions that they represent. And if that's what they think they're doing, this is one warning. This parliament chose them and they must not be placed above this parliament because they did not elect us. We've been elected by citizens, and citizens are putting a lot of pressure on us. Because it never occurred to me to ask what I was interested in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10406	Excuse me, Mr. Joviciæ, we are commenting on the questions of MPs. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10407	Well, that's exactly what we're saying. The answer, unfortunately, is gone. I'd like to comment on the answer, but there's no answer to what I'm going to comment on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10408	So you have one answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10409	Mr. Chairman, I have no comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10410	You can do it again. You can repeat the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10411	I can repeat every question but it's pointless. That's what I'm telling you. So it doesn't make sense to keep asking questions if these individuals, these individuals who represent institutions,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10412	We'll make sense of it, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10413	They don't send answers, that's the point. What am I going to ask if I don't have an answer? I'd like to comment whether I'm satisfied or not. The only real answer I got from you, then, from the College. When conditions are created here in Parliament that MPs can accept this poverty and misery that comes to Parliament, which no one cares about. So we can't talk to them at the restaurant because he's going to ask me right now and say that my salary is good and that I'm taking him for coffee, and I'm not going to. I want to talk to people and help them where they can. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10414	Mr. Jovičić, thank you very much. So it's about comments on the answers received. I have Mr. Živković, he signed up. There's no one left, here's the conclusion, here's Mr. Živković. Comment on, okay, okay, for questions. Wait a minute, please be patient, please. I'll open the MPs' questions and sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10415	Thank you, Chairman. Just maybe a little note to the MPs. The Council of Ministers asked us not to schedule Thursday's session for the same reason that they have a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the moment, so that we in College 9 have considered this possibility and we will surely find ways for this parliament to work Wednesdays, so that we may have on the other hand people adequate to discuss what Mr Slavi was talking about. It means we have the Minister's answers. I'm going to answer the answer I got to my MP's question, say I'm not happy with the answer. I am not satisfied because the answer does not make it clear to me what BiH's official position is on this issue, so I would ask the minister to answer my question about this answer, which is -- what is BiH's official position on the development of nuclear technology by Iran? So it's a question of which, like this, is briefly answered. Given that there is an increasingly frequent misunderstanding regarding media transmission statements regarding these statements. The freshest misunderstanding, then, was about the conversation Mr. Sven Alkalaj had with Mr. Tadić. I would also ask, therefore, given the conflicting claims over talks with Serbian President Tadić about the BiH presidency's decision to call on Serbia to arrest and deliver war crimes indictees without delay. My question is: was the decision the subject of the talks of Minister Alkalaj with Serbian President Mr Tadić, and if so, what is the official position of BiH represented in these talks? And it's obvious we're going to have the work of Mr. Sven Alkalaj's diplomatic guffs already gathered. I will already run for the next session on the opening of the Cultural Club in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10416	Thank you. Mr. Živković, here, took the opportunity to comment and ask questions. So he rationally took the time. One piece of information, Mr. Jovičić, this, therefore, and all of us who are dissatisfied with the relationship to our parliamentary issues, we have been seriously discussing in the last College some organisational technical issues, and we have resolved that this is not an obstacle. But, uh, we agreed, in a way, that at the end of June, we would organise, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a joint session of both Houses, according to the Rules of Procedure and invite the Council of Ministers, to answer the questions that we will deliver to the Council of Ministers. So we're going to have this situation public, public confrontation. And another thing. So, if this has already gone beyond measure, absolutely no one is here to prevent anyone from launching the trust procedure and the Council of Ministers or the individual ministers we've been asking here. A matter of trust to the directors of institutions that have been indirectly or directly through this Parliament asked and so on. So, Mr. Jovičić, we have measures, we have instruments, it's just a matter of patience, and until when we need to exhaust certain things that we have within the organisational and technical aspect. So we're working on it, I assure you. 10 So, like this, I have been reported for parliamentary matters. Please, just make an inventory.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10417	I'm sorry, can I just, uh, not replicate, just give you something?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10418	You can't, Mr. Jovičić, work, so you've been up three times already.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10419	Please, one sentence to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10420	You don't have to beg me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10421	Let me do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10422	Well, you don't have to beg me, you're already talking. Thank you. Did you give up?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10423	I didn't give up, I was waiting for this to turn on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10424	Come on, I guess it'll work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10425	So, Mr. Chairman, I fully agree with you. You're absolutely right. But may this parliament oblige the Council of Ministers to sit here. I just see four people sitting here the same way. Who am I going to ask questions to? Well, they sit in every parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10426	So now we've explained, Milorad is, now Milorad has explained to you that we have agreed with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and terms, all in the direction of ensuring the presence of ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10427	So, Mr. Belkić, do they look at other countries' parliaments? There is a key government sitting there to be asked by MPs. There's no one here but these three people. What do I have to ask you?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10428	They'll pass it on, they'll pass it on to the ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10429	Well, they'll go into the anals here to sit down and only the three of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10430	All right, well, let's keep working. So, MP questions were applied to Džaferović, Hadžiahmetović, Marković, Suljkanović, Dolić, Kalabić, Halilović, Halilović, I don't have them on screen, three of them being, Halilović, Bećirović, Bešlagić, Prodanović, Mehmedović Šemsudin. Is there more? It's not Kalabić, okay, and here it is, okay. Let's take Mr. Džaferović's turn.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10431	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is the 8th session of the House of Representatives and as time passes and the number of sessions is increasing, the days of our meetings are getting thinner, under the circumstances, when it comes to legislative initiatives. We are mainly dealing with projects that are the product of the Council of Ministers' proposal in an earlier term or with projects that are Members of this House's proposal. Today is the 105th day since its appointment as chairman of the Council of Ministers in the new assembly, and on the 76th day since the appointment of the Council of Ministers. And according to yesterday's data, believe it or not, in the BiH Parliament, only one legal proposal has arrived from the Council of Ministers. It's the law on, the foreign exchange framework law in BiH. If I'm wrong about this number, I'd like it right now, this is yesterday's data. One single law of the Council of Ministers in a new assembly for 76 days from its appointment, or 105 days from the appointment of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Before I begin to draw any more serious conclusions about this situation, and I think this is an unacceptable situation, I ask the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers: What happens in the Council of Ministers when it comes to legislative projects? When does the Council of Ministers intend to include more seriously legal projects in the parliamentary procedure in the BiH Parliament? In the last term of more than 200 legislative projects came as a proposal from the Council of Ministers here, if it is divided by the number of months in office, and given that it was the Council of Ministers that was established under the amended and adopted Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, then it can be clearly concluded how far we are, given the average, should have legal projects from the Council of Ministers here in Parliament at, for consideration. According to information available to me, more than 20 legislative projects remain in progress from the previous Council of Ministers in the current Council of Ministers. They haven't shown up yet in parliamentary procedure either. So, before I start making more serious conclusions about this situation, I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers: What happens when it comes to legislative initiatives? Why aren't they here? Why is there no bill in the BiH Parliament and when will it start? 12 Because the BiH Parliament for these two months should be filled with legislative proposals, given the obligations that BiH has on its European and Euro-Atlantic security path. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10432	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović, Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10433	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10434	Please deliver in writing the questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10435	Dear members of the College, colleagues and colleagues. Before I ask any questions, allow me to make a correction to the wrong allegation. But I'll just wait for Šefik to finish the story.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10436	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10437	Correction of the wrong quote. A colleague, Džaferović, said we received only one legislative proposal from the Council of Ministers, a law, a draft law on the framework of foreign exchange operations, to remind you that this bill was set at the 127th session held in August 2006, therefore, in the old assembly. Therefore, this only law has not come from a new Council of Ministers' cry. My parliamentary question was addressed to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. It is known that judges are appointed by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in accordance with the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and in Article 23 of this law, it is determined among other things that the term of office of the judge may cease when it reaches its age.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10438	Have we lost our patience yet? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10439	So that the term of office of the judge may cease when he completes his retirement period prescribed for compulsory retirement. The question is, my question concerns the following: how many appointed judges with a term of office have completed the age prescribed for compulsory retirement? And what reasons were managed by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to define the appointment, i.e. the term of office of the judge and why does the age rule not apply for the termination of the term of office? 13 Namely, I will only remind you of Article 23 of the Declaration, the General Declaration of Human Rights, which allows you, among other things, to exercise the right to work. For one thing, every year I will remind you that hundreds of young people graduated from law schools and only one traineeship in the Sarajevo Court applied over 200 candidates. And of course, on the basis of which, on the basis of whose document, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council appreciated the fulfillment of the first conditions in accordance with this law to appoint a judge, that they had psychophysical abilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10440	Thank you, Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10441	Can Berize just say one sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10442	All right, Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10443	I apologize for taking my word, I have a need, uh, just to keep it quiet.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10444	And you can take a break, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10445	Uh, well, for a stenogram, since Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, my esteemed colleague, before she asked a question she quoted part of my question, let me just say, therefore, one thing. It is not, therefore, controversial what she was talking about, but I was talking about when the laws came to the BiH Parliament. This Council of Ministers, regardless of what it found, delivered the law on 20.03 and 26.03 respectively, depending on which home this year to the BiH Parliament. That's what I was talking about, just so there's no misunderstanding, please nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10446	But it's clear, and we in the College know perfectly how we stand with proposals, initiatives, laws, etc. But okay, let's go, let's go, Marković, here we go, sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10447	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is addressed to the Ministry
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10448	May I have your attention, please? 14
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10449	My question was addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers. In fact, starting with the fact that by 1991 there was a Republic Fund for the financing of cultural institutions based in Sarajevo and starting with the fact and reality that today this area and this activity are being financed under the Ministry of Civil Affairs, my question concerns the following: From what period and based on what decision did the Ministry of Civil Affairs begin to plan and implement funds to finance the institutions of culture in BiH? With the details of the following data: 1. What institutions now, I think, are financed from cultural funds under the Ministry of Civil Affairs? 2. How much was spent for this area in 2006, which includes the work of individual institutions, cultural activities programmes, and dedicated funds at the request of natural or legal persons for individual projects? 3. How much did every culture institution in BiH receive individually for work and activities in 2006? I hope the answer won't be, I won't get this question at the end of this year but much sooner. And once I've answered my question, I suggest Mr. Chairman, yes, while we're still at this point in the agenda of the matter, the parliamentary questions and the answers, we end up with one conclusion. This is my proposal, which will say that: This House votes one conclusion which obliges the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Resort Ministry and Service, that within a certain period, I propose that it be 30 days after the delivery of the question, the answer is received from them. And it seems to me and I think that setting a deadline can contribute to efficiency in their, uh, delivering answers unless, of course, we can achieve some more effective way to, to get answers to our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10450	Thank you. Mr. Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10451	Honored chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues. My question is addressed to the foreign ministry, and it is related to representations and bureaus and similar or similar institutions established, engaged or funded by Republika Srpska entities, and lobbying activities of RS abroad. The issue has been developed by segments: 15 In which countries there is representation, bureau or similar institution established, engaged or funded by the RS entity? From which means are the institutions in question financed? What is the annual budget of the institutions mentioned, including specific items for each individual institution? What activities are those institutions involved, including specific items for each individual institution? According to which institutions or officials of the host country do the institutions concerned act, and on what specific issues? In which countries did the Republika Srpska entity hire or currently provide lobbyist or similar representative services? From which means are the services in question financed? What is the annual budget of all services in question including specific items for all individual services? What activities are companies or houses providing the services in question including more detailed specific activities of all individual companies or houses? According to which institutions or officials of the host country act, the companies or houses in question, and on what specific issues? So here's a little longer questions later, one brief explanation. The issue is the fact that Republika Srpska's entity has been operating abroad for years through so-called RS or RS offices. That the budget of the RS specifies the funds, specific funds for this purpose, and that the RS also actively hires lobbying firms abroad from the budget of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10452	It's a Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10453	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have two questions. The first question is the question to the director of SIPA: What are the results and fate of the investigation that has been conducted in time against the group of persons and the company "Galaxia" from Bihac, owned by Pivić Emina? On suspicion that they were in '96. – In 2000, through the border crossing of Izačić at Bihać without paying customs and import duties imported over a hundred high-titre goods and thus damaged the Federation of BiH's budget for millions of converting marks. The smuggling was reportedly interrupted after the authorities of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia carried out an investigation into the matter and found that the exit of the high-taste goods to BiH was duly recorded by Croatian customs officers. It is a public secret that high-titre helmets have entered BiH without any record, and one number of high-titre boot entrys has been recorded as entering cement, chalk, ticks, syrups and the other. And at the time of crossing the truck across BiH border, border police and customs officers had to turn around, turn their backs on the pem trucks and on those who drove them. 16 The second question is the foreign minister's question at the BiH Council of Ministers. What can you do on more professional regulation of crossing the border at the Maljevac border crossing near Velika Klajuda on weekends and holidays? When BiH citizens from Western Europe come home for weekends and holidays, then at the end of the weekend or holidays they return to temporary stays in Europe. I am personally on the weekend side of the weekend, from holidays to holidays watching as long car columns wait without reason for entry and exit from BiH and experience psychosis and humiliation, and this does not initiate the border services, customs and police of the two states to organise and strengthen at that time to faster carry out border and customs controls and reduce dissatisfaction and anxiety among citizens. At that time, the columns are often so long that they block and cause traffic disturbances in the Great Claudium and I note that this is not occasionally, seasonally, etc. a question, a constant problem already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10454	Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10455	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs. My two short questions. The first question is the question of Minister of Civil Affairs at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Has this ministry financed all the cultural institutions established by the BiH state so far? According to some reports, this ministry has set aside 2 million marks a year for these institutions, which is about 50% of the real needs. Is there any control over the spending of these funds, i.e. whether boards and directors are valid and when their mandate expires? Who named them and was it done by law? What is the law on... in force in BiH? Or if it is not applicable and does not comply with any law whether the Council of Ministers violates Annex 2 of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which regulates the continuity of BiH's legal rules. According to some knowledge, in some of these seven institutions there is legal and real chaos, but real chaos, which is the greatest responsibility of the Council of Ministers and, that is, government at the state level, because it does not perform its duties. Here, first of all, I mean the founding rights and obligations. The point of the whole story is whether the ministry's resolution is the difference between the institutions of culture and the institutions of culture set up by BiH and what needs to be done, should be thought, what it means and intends to do. I wouldn't explain it because, yes, no, if I wasn't taking your precious time. The second question is addressed to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's College of Representatives. Why isn't television broadcast of the session of Parliament, the BiH Assembly? When Article 153, paragraph 3, the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives stated that the parliamentary issues are minimally set aside for an hour at each regular, plenary session and provide a direct TV transmission. 17 I do not think that this question should be, should not even be commented if it is known that in all democratic countries in the world, parliaments are being transferred, both neighbouring and other countries, and I do not think there is any reason not to carry out and transfer directly to this Parliament. At the 83rd session of the House of Representatives held on 25 July 2006, MP Petar Kunić asked a question about direct TV transmissions of the session and received an answer that the College held several meetings with the management of the Public TV Service on which they received an explanation that there are no technical assumptions for direct transmission and that there is no right, legal basis to order the TV service to carry out the transfer. This is illogical when it is seen that, for example, Cantonal TV, which is technically less equipped than tv than Public TV service or TV Vogosć, or TV Novi, this or other television, local television, has technical assumptions, broadcast sessions of cantonal and municipal congregations even. This issue and this initiative that, that the selected group of representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly should be held talks with the leadership of the Public TV Service on the possibility of a direct transfer of the sessions. If a negative answer is received, I suggest that co-operation with the Regulatory Agency for Communications, or the Agency's Broadcasting Sector, find a TV house that would be ready to transfer because according to the RAK Code of Work, impartial and objective information without favouring any policy options is the most important postulate for the work of media houses. I believe that such a standard can best be achieved through direct transmissions. This is also important because of public and public access to information, citizens' rights to accurate and timely information and the creation of a democratic climate in society in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10456	Thank you, Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10457	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The parliamentary issue is for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and it is simple, I demand the BiH Council of Ministers to answer the question: Why hasn't it opened yet and started working as a customs terminal in Tuzla? Reason: The interim investigative commission of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives in the past term following the completion of the investigation, the investigation process, gave a positive opinion to the opening of this terminal in Tuzla, that there is no legal obstacle to its release. Until today, it is not open, and this way I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me when this customs terminal will start working.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10458	Thank you, Bećirović. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10459	I have two parliamentary questions, first: Why does the BiH Ministry of Defence not accept the request of the University of Tuzla for participation in the distribution of facilities that were in the responsibilities of the Federation of BiH Army and Kasarna Husein Kapetan Gradaščević in Tuzla, and the Paša Bunar strelište for the needs of the University of Tuzla? The second question: Is it true that similar objects or part of them, which are in the jurisdiction of the military in Sarajevo, Banja Luka and in some other cities, are already assigned to universities in these cities? With questions asked, I remind, among other things, of the justifiable reasons why the University of Tuzla submitted that request. The University of Tuzla has 13 universities, 44 study departments, and the establishment of 5 scientific institutes is under way. At the University of Tuzla annually graduates about 1,200 students of all profiles, mastering about 200, doctoring about 50. The University of Tuzla is a public university, and the founder is Tuzla Canton. Its main activity is to provide high education services to the citizens of Tuzla Canton and the whole of BiH. The University of Tuzla has an extremely pronounced problem with space. The number of regular students of the University of Tuzla in academic 2006-2007 is higher by 20,000 and has been tripled in the last 4 years. Such an expansion of higher education was not accompanied by a spatial increase in the capacity of the University of Tuzla. According to standards and norms for higher education activities, according to the modern criteria of the Bologna Declaration, the University of Tuzla will need a total surface area of 15 000 m2. The University of Tuzla currently has about 60 thousand m2 of useful space, which means that as much as 90 thousand m2 is missing. Such a large investment of building such a large space the University of Tuzla, founder of Tuzla Canton, and even the whole state, are unable to launch, finance, or lead to its realization. I'm asking questions from the BiH Defence Minister and I'm asking for an answer, a written answer. And since we are at the point of the agenda of parliamentary questions and answers, and respecting what the chairman has been saying in the current course, that this Parliament has mechanisms to seriousise those ministers who violate the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, and by respecting what the MPs and colleagues Slavko Jovičić and Snježana Rajilić have proposed to Parliament at the end of this agenda to adopt the following conclusion: Starting from the fact that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is the highest body of the legislative authority in BiH, which, among other things, has the power to elect and resolve the Council of Ministers of BiH, and seeing the irresponsible relationship of ministers who, after 7 held meetings of the House of Representatives, violate the Rules of the House of Representatives, in particular Articles 151 and 155. The House of Representatives concludes at its 8th session that the next session will raise the issue of the removal of those ministers who violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives and thus degrade the highest body of the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10460	Thank you. Prodanović. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10461	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the Ministry of Security. What is the position of the Ministry of Security, with regard to the statements of some politicians and members of this parliament, that persons deprived of BiH citizenship do not necessarily have to leave BiH? Is it an invitation for those without citizenship to remain in BiH, and what consequences could this have on the country's security? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10462	And we have Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10463	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. At one of the previous sessions, I asked one question to the Minister of Transport and Communications. Since I didn't get an answer until today, here I am today setting up a new six. I hope so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10464	Six questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10465	Yeah. The first question, then, to the Ministry of Transport and Communications: When and on the basis of which regulations will the alignment of the driving orders of international bus lines be carried out, since it has not been done since 1996? Secondly, based on what, on what regulations are so-called. inter-republic lines between RS and Serbia-Montenegro declared interstate? Third, on what basis are the CEMT licenses distributed? According to some key 1/3 to Republika Srpska, 2/3 to the Federation and 60% to Bošnjak, i.e. Bosniak firms and 40% to Croatian. Where is such a principle prescribed? I guess licenses are issued for the train unit. Fourthly, why does the ministry's secretary, in his acts, refer to the laws of neighbouring countries rather than BiH's laws? Example of act number: 03-29-5-885/07 since 20.03.2007. Fifth, was it adopted, or was the International Line Register established? And sixth, when will this ministry finally bring its activities into line with the laws of this country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10466	Thank you very much. Here's how we ended up with parliamentary issues. In the meantime, we had two initiatives, so it's not about Mrs. Rajilić, but Mrs. 20 Marković, who suggests that the Council of Ministers be obliged to provide the answers to the parliamentary questions within 30 days and we have another initiative, or conclusion, of course I didn't get any here, but I am trying to interpret, to follow the business provisions on the area of parliamentary issues, so it is about Mr. Bećirović's proposal. ___________(?) [[not enabled]] I don't have it yet. ___________(?) [[not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10470	I have nothing against this proposal from my colleague, Snježana Rajilić. Let me remind you that the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives has already been specified.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10471	That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10472	So we do not vote on what is written in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10473	That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10474	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10475	I don't need you to explain. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10476	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10477	So here's to read, by the trail of the Rules of Procedure, I said, so, Mrs Marković in the Rules of Procedure, that this area was arranged and made a commitment to the Council of Ministers, not within 30 days, but within 15 days, that she had to answer these questions. And the consequences, I said a little bit, we have instruments and mechanisms not only according to the Council of Ministers but according to a number of institutions that, directly or indirectly, the leadership of these institutions is being set up by this Parliament. So, Mr Bećirović suggests the following conclusion: So, starting with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives being the largest body of the legislative authority, etc., among other things, has the power to elect and resolve the Council of Ministers of BiH, and, seeing, unresponsibly, the irresponsible relationship of ministers who, after seven held meetings of the House of Representatives, violate the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, in particular members 151 and 155, the House of Representatives concludes at its 8th session, that from the next session, they will raise the issue of the replacement of those ministers that violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative and thus degrade the highest body of legislative authorities. So this is a proposal for a conclusion with what I'm going to say, that no one defends or interferes with any MP, group of MPs, club, etc. And without a conclusion, it raises this kind of question. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10478	So I think the same reasons can be applied as just before. When it comes to this issue, it is not disputed that all MPs agree to seek responsibility and a different relationship but now we have this situation to which I am the Rules of Procedure, we change the matter, and I don't know everything else, we can run it, but now the question is, I would like an interpretation to which extent the Rules of Procedure of this House obliges the Council of Ministarians.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10479	Thank you very much. But here I am obliged to put, put this conclusion to the vote, with Mrs. Marković staying with yours, do you withdraw?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10481	You're withdrawing your proposal. So we have a unique proposal for a conclusion. Is there still a need to explain or comment on this proposal? Can we approach the vote? If you don't, if you don't, I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. With 19 votes in favour of, 5 against, 4 abstentions, without the entity majority, therefore, most of Republika Srpska, the conclusion has not been reached. 22 We have a match coming up, now or later. I pleaded, I'm in. ___________? We can now, let them vote [[the rest is not heard]] I didn't understand. So, I was up for the suggestion of this conclusion. ____________? We don't have the consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10486	The Honorable Chairman. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10487	May I have your attention, I hope we're not tired already. Mrs. Marić, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10488	Dear chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. This law of mine meets all the criteria for going through an emergency procedure, but after consulting the club presidents, I decided to allow this law to undergo certain changes, in fact, to go through the commission phase and that at the commission stage we all have the opportunity to fix it, possibly, to be even more quality, so that I would suggest that we make a statement under Article 126, not Article 127.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10489	Thank you very much. Here you have heard, Proposer, so to say, modify your request and, instead of Article 127, the proposal is that this initiative, or the proposal for this law, is considered as amending and supplementing this law, under Article 126, therefore, to a shortened procedure which, of course, implies a commission phase. I hope that we can make a statement about this proposal, i.e. before that, I am opening a debate, therefore, on the modified proposal. Well, sir, Mr. Džaferović, that's what we'll decide by voting. Is there a debate? I'm closing up. Have there been any reports of a hearing about the procedure? I'm closing the debate. We're voting on procedure. Vote now. With 15 votes for, 16 against, 3 abstentions the proposal did not receive support, or the request did not receive support. This law goes into regular, regular procedure. We're going to item four, it's about the Bill's proposal on Supplements and Amendments to the BiH Election Law. I ask that the proposings, or the Electoral Commission, be called. They're invited, aren't they? So we know they were invited, but we told them to wait for the agenda point and we took the obligation to call them. So point four. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Election Law (second reading) The reminders work, at the sixth session, we adopted this legislative proposal in our first reading. The report by the relevant Constitutional and Legal Commission contains three amendments adopted by the Commission and have, of course, become an integral part of the bill's proposal. At this plenary stage, we don't have any amendments. So, I open up, I open up a debate in another reading. Mr. Novaković signed up. Twenty-four here, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10491	The Honorable Chairman, members of the College, fellow MPs. I've had an amendment in the commission phase and I haven't renewed it because it's obvious that the parliamentary majority doesn't think the way I meant it in this amendment but I want the public to do, to comment again on this second reading of this member of the law. In fact, I have proposed that the member of the law be changed and that it be said: That, in exceptional terms of Articles 96 and 424 of this law, if the political party and coalition, which won the mandate on the compensation list, no more candidates, the mandate belongs to the party that has the next largest ratio. For what? Well, you see, there are several principles on which the Election Law is based. One of the basic principles is that there is no complementarity and change of rules during the elections, and it is not logical that the rules change after the elections and apply retroactively to the election process. This law, therefore, violates the basic principle of the electoral, electoral process most directly. On the other hand, as suggested in the text, the possibility of manipulation for candidates has been left, although Mr Genjac's amendment has now reduced some of this possibility but still left space. And in the end, I must say that in this particular case, this is about a particular case, so elections, the election of 83 MPs to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. When a member, or MP, was to be elected to the National Assembly of the Croatian people, the SDS was to be placed on the scale. Since she had no candidate from the Croatian people's list, the next political party that had the candidate was taken and gave it to the candidate. Therefore, the principle or leaven is therefore not an option for that party to complete the list. This way here and this law basically leaves the possibility to go against this principle. So, completely two different principles in the same law, that someone who didn't propose a candidate is now proposing it which is really very controversial. Of course, it is clear to me that the parliamentary majority has good reasons not to support such an amendment. Gentlemen from the Party for BiH because it is their candidate, and gentlemen, let's say, from the SNSD because they no longer have a candidate on the compensation list, so in case, don't give God, need -- so they would find themselves in the same situation. So, for these reasons, I am fully aware, realistically, of the fact that the chances of this law getting, or this amendment getting the support of the majority, I did not propose it, but I am obliged to warn of some indifference or indiscipline of this law and of the Electoral Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10492	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Džaferović answered for the word. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10493	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues You have received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission and I believe you are all aware of what is at last, a proposal in the second reading to be voted on. I had no intention of talking about this because, I mean, we search this thing a few times, but after the presentation of the distinguished colleague Novaković and after his claim that this text.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10494	Please refrain from walking, sit in your seats, let it work normally.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10495	So, that this text reflects, slightly said, did counterpart Novaković say, even used the word, even violates the principles on which the Electoral Law was founded, and I felt the need to say a few sentences because, of course, the Constitutional Commission must also take into account the principles on which the electoral text of the law was founded and that the amendment and the supplement cannot differ from these principles. I declare, therefore, that this text with the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, therefore, the text on which it will be voted, does not fall back from the principles on which the Election Law was founded, and the example set by the distinguished colleague refers to the completion of the parliaments when it is necessary to satisfy the appropriate ethnic quota and such examples and such cases remain still. This applies, therefore, only when it comes to the compensation lists of political parties, when the corresponding number is missing, and in this direction an appropriate intervention has been made to which political parties have been obliged, when making up the compensation lists, therefore, it is a priority obligation for political parties to deliver 10% more candidates than the number of candidates elected from that constituency and then this exception remains which, in practice, will never be able to apply but the law must also provide for such a situation. That is why I propose as the Constitutional Commission has also proposed that this House be supported by this law, of course, with a report from the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10496	I thank Mr. Džaferović. Mr. Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10497	Dear fellow MPs. First one correction to Mr. Novaković's incorrect allegations. I expected him to say that there was a decision on the Constitutional Court by revote. I want to point out today that it is not good for us to introduce such a principle on this committee and that voting in any committee is not good, and especially in the Constitutional and Legal Committee, and it is necessary to strive to come up with agreed solutions, and when, and I will talk about it later, I will have one recommendation to the College to consider some.... The Rules of Procedure on how to decide in the Constitutional and Legal Commission, because it is not talked about, but there are some aspects of the House itself when it comes to, to, to certain situations, but we will do so at some other time. There is a new moment here, and that is the fact that we have reports today on the work of the BiH Election Commission. While you see the recommendations and what the Constitutional Commission has proposed, we have the full agreement that certain legislative matter in the next period, 26 legal matter should be regulated in certain laws concerning the Election Commission itself and that we are all in agreement that there are certain situations that require additional effort. One of them is this one, and I think, since this is one new moment, that we should respect this, I guess we're going to adopt a report like that and try to cut the deadlines for the procedure as much as possible. There you will see what we have agreed and in the context of this issue to resolve this today. I will not repeat the shortcomings of this proposal for which, especially the fact that you have a situation that such a proposal is possible for a person who did not participate in the elections to come in, in, in the Assembly. I'm absolutely against it, so the law, if adopted, provides, provides such an opportunity. It is that this has been tried to fix in what Mr., or Mr. Genjac's amendment, has been said, but theoretically remains this possibility of what is unacceptable, retroactive application. I don't think we need that, and that we have under this point really one commission to respect one proposal where it will be formed, I hope, an inter-resor group composed of Members of the Council of Ministers and which will give one, one whole approach to all of these issues concerning the legislation itself, regarding the Electoral Commission. So we won't support the bill like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10498	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. All MPs have received a report that clearly states that the vote is, as much as it is against, therefore, the term is also visible by revote, I would rather say most votes, fewer votes, etc. Here comes Mr. Džaferović again, but, of course, uh, you have the right to evaluate that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10499	You see, I mean things are completely clear. Uh, I don't know if later, during the session, we'll be able to open up some other things, uh, now I won't talk about it, I'm just going to say, so it clearly says here that the Constitutional Commission voted most votes -- 4 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions. Therefore, please decide, gentlemen, that is to say, whether there is anyone here who voted, although I am talking about a vote in the Constitutional Commission. But this time it really was just one vote against. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10500	Okay. They had the opportunity to see the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10501	Let's say it publicly, I mean it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10502	I'm going on. Are there any further reports for the hearing? If there's no record of a hearing, I'm closing the hearing. Please prepare to vote in the second reading. Vote now. 27 So with 19 votes for, against 15, 2 abstentions and an insufficient entity majority, the law is not supported by Parliament. There's a match coming up. I'll report to you immediately that we have no consent. So, according to the Rules of Procedure, we now vote who is against these amendments and additions to the law. Vote now. So here's the vote, 15 votes are against, so to speak. So 11 -- the law is down. Let's go to point five. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Competition Act – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković (second reading) At the 7th session of this bill, we adopted it in our first reading. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has been responsible. The Commission held a session yesterday afternoon. The commission report you received today. So you saw that the commission unanimously adopted the bill and found that there were no amendments. So, I'm opening a debate. Here's Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10504	Here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10505	Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10506	I respect the proposal of the Proposer to establish a slightly greater dynamic or faster dynamic in the conduct of the affairs of state institutions and, of course, the procedures that have been carried out in the current process of considering this law. However, I would like to point to this House a failure concerning the provisions, strict provisions of the Competition Act, which is the obligation of the Competition Council to take any amendments to the Competition Act. In view of the fact that, as I was informed, the opinion of the Competition Council was bypassed, that the Council of Ministers considered only the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and not even the relevant Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs had the opinion of the Competition Council during the debate on this law. I would suggest that, in order not to come into conflict with the provisions of the Competition Act, the more the deadlines should be cut down then to the shortening and other deadlines resulting from these 6 months that, possibly, the commission, with consultations with the Competition Council, should once again consider this, this law. I, therefore, point to the procedural failure that has been made by respecting, of course, the good intentions of the promoter. Thank you very much. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10507	Thank you. Izetbegović. Please. A little patience, Mr. Izetbegović, curved quote – Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10508	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs. A commission whose president I am yesterday considered this law in a second reading. Before April 12, we considered it in our first reading. At each of these sessions, here are the members of the commission, they can confirm, that we had the position of the Competition Council and that we were also looking at their position but also the fact that it stands in the law that there is a possibility in certain situations of the Competition Council to extend the deadline if it considers it necessary. Since Mr. Živković had not intervened in that part of the law, he did not remove the possibility that he could remain in the Competition Council for more than 3 months, one of the proposals that came to them for consideration. We considered most votes, not by majority votes, but unanimously that the law should go into procedure today for adoption. So, we had a recommendation, but we also, here, I'll give myself the freedom to say, we've also had a finding of the members of the committee that very many institutions, which have in the laws of this kind of possibility, mean that they make themselves known about the amendments and additions to the laws that apply to their work necessarily, in the event that they deny the broad rights they have, always react negatively, means they demand that such rights are not abolished, and here we directly think, for example, of the Directorate for indirect taxation and the work of the administration for indirect taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10509	Thank you very much. Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10510	So I supported this law, supplementing the law, amending the law in the first reading, believing that we should simply speed up, these processes in BiH. However, as counterpart Hadžiahmetović said, we did not take into account the views of the Competition Council. And I also took this one for granted, so to speak, and the proposer's view that international experience shows that 3 months is common and quite enough time, this one I took that way. The people of the Competition Council say that it is not so, that, above all, this thing applies exclusively to abuses. So when it comes to the so-called. concentrations and forbidden agreements, then those six months, are all other shorter deadlines. The concentration leads to market domination, and banned agreements refer to cartels, meaning secret agreements that also create monopoly and market domination. In the European Union, when it comes to cartels, the term of 170 working days is over 6 months, and in the environment of Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, etc., also 6 months, is not 3 months. So it's not true that, in the environment it's different. 29 We had only one case so far, the one where the Competition Council worked and that was the Ljubljanska Banka. It lasted over 4 months and it was established, this and they were punished with 400,000 marks and it was supposed to be checked at the agency by this entity banking agency. Information should have been taken from Croatia, information should have been taken from the European Union, which lasted 4 months, eventually established. So if it was three months, it wouldn't have worked. They found that if it wasn't right and they were punished with 400,000 marks so that, I don't think they could support it, uh, because since they're working exclusively on abuses, not everything else that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10511	Thank you. Is there any further? Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10512	You know what it is. Here is the debate that shows that, in fact, this Parliament has absolutely no power whatsoever. We're now saying if the Competition Council can comply with this law if we bring it in. Gentlemen, the Competition Council will be working within three months. Just as we are asking VAT questions and it is always up to us that the Directorate and the Administration of the Directorate, the sea, for indirect taxation, make a decision, and this Parliament is the main one that makes it. So, I don't think there's a time limit for all those who need to comply with this law right now to say, "I don't have time." Well, he'll be working 24 hours. So, please, let's start arguing once. If, then, the commission has accepted, if it was all OK, if we aim to garner efficiency, if nothing else, then because of what one conference has now said that investing in BiH is disastrous because of taxes, because of these procedures that we have. So please, I personally believe that there is no obstacle here to a three-month period, but I agree that everyone else must comply with this deadline. And I think that would be the only addition that should possibly follow with this clarification or, when the law is passed, to say: within, I don't know, 30 days, all the other regulations that are related to this part should be aligned. Come on, please, once this Parliament shows that we want to speed up all the processes that are going on here. I was ashamed and ashamed when we couldn't implement a project in Tuzla Canton because, the complaints were served, so I can't get rid of it because we didn't have a commission. Well, that's a shame, and then we ask to speed up investment in BiH. Surely it will not be possible, and therefore I ask you, this Parliament, to take responsibility for the law passed and for the implementation of these laws that it adopts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10513	Thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10514	Well, the problem is what Mr. Bešlagić was talking about. So, this, in order to change this deadline, needs an entire system of deadlines to move. It's not done, we'll get inconsistent law. Look, these people have an obligation, if any reports arrive, to send that application to answer. The other side has 30 days to wait and 30. He delivers an answer for 30 days. So 30 days people can't do anything. This period of six months is connected to the deadline system and the whole system of deadlines, uh, needs to be reviewed. So it's just a formal legal aspect. The essential aspect was explained by Mr Izetbegović. And the bottom line is, I guess Europe knows better countries that have developed a market economy, this, this institute and its mechanisms, so the deadlines are 170 working days, which is more than 6 months. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10515	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported for discussion? Mr. Novaković, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10516	You see, I've listened to a parliamentary question here a little while ago that talked about how the Council of Ministers doesn't do anything, and I think it seems very little, so some questions here are being seriously resolved. And then it happens to us that the Council of Ministers does something, so the minister says that, that, first of all, there are no legal interferences, and this would contribute to a more efficient and comprehensive settlement of cases in the area of competition in the entire BiH territory, and to the implementation of the principles of economics in the administrative process as well as in legal security. So the competent ministry and the Council of Ministers say the law is acceptable. And we don't trust him this time. Now this is about some other relations, which should not be talked about under this law but perhaps, perhaps within a specific agenda point, and it is about the functioning of, at all, the government in, in BiH, or in the Council of Ministers and here in Parliament. The fact is, therefore, that even the few legislative proposals that happen to us here, and even when we have a positive view of the ministry, in reality, have little chance of going through for a variety of reasons. I'm not going in here to see if the remarks of the essential nature or the observations have any other purpose, of course, of which those who have invested them or who have talked about it today as objections to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10517	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10518	Mr. Chairman, therefore, this is about two essential things, and if you look at the Competition Council's report why they dispute the shorting of these deadlines, you will immediately see what this is about. In one part, they boast that all the items that were in front of them were completed within 60 days, and now they have a problem with it being 90 days. But here, they want to show that they were up-to-date and they're all over in 60 days. So, there's one other thing I have to say here, so that you don't get the wrong impression, that we in Republika Srpska are pushing for this to go away. This doesn't have to go away because we strategic privatisations of the strongest collectives are almost over, but we want to help the Federation. This, gentlemen, is waiting for you. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10519	Who are you, Mr. Jovičić?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10520	Please, no, so you know how, so everything gets, so you see how this is where Mr. Belkić comes in. Don't tell me now why someone's against it, why for.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10521	I'll tell you what, my Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10522	So please. Well, look, you've been following the polemics around Telecom and around the refinery, who's been arguing there, what's been going on there. And the money should've come to help the people. I always insist. So don't blame me for that one sentence, it's essential. So, what's he trying to accomplish here? What Mr. Bešlagić was saying is that all the lower organs dictate what we are going to do, and that is our greatest responsibility. Well, that's because we're incompetent and we don't want to help create here the best legal frameworks for the functioning of these institutions, so it's our fault. I really don't want us to carry that responsibility. Let the Competition Council address it and tell us where we stopped them from being more effective. And they themselves said that they were so effective that they deserved the greatest prize, because all the items ended before we asked – 90 days, they ended in 60.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10523	Thank you very much. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10524	I'm from BiH, I'm going to be in the Federation, it's not a weakness to me, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10525	Okay, well, thank you, Mr. Bešlagić. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić. Is it a replica? Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10526	I'm also from BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10527	Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10528	Replica, of course. I am also from BiH as Mr. Bešlagić did and I did not allude to that they did not.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10529	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10530	We're just from different cities, but here we are sitting in the same city, thank Bog.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10531	Okay, okay, sure. Here's another promoter, just a little bit, Mr. Dokić. Are there others interested in discussing this agenda point? Here's Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10532	Mr. Chairman, just once again to make sure you don't register me when I press the button, or this technique doesn't work. Ali.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10533	You're doing a little harder with your hand, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10534	Very short. After the presentation of my colleague Azra, I thought there might be a reason why the bill promoter would get another consent. However, after the intervention of the president of the board of directors who discussed it and unanimously adopted it and we heard that there were agreements and that they heard the opinion of the Competition Council, I see no reason why we should postpone this job and today I think we should pass this law. If there are some disagreements with some other deadlines, that doesn't mean we should wait with this initiative. This initiative should be supported and adopted, adopted by this law, and the possible alignment of other deadlines, for example, should be given to any Competition Council of any of the MPs who will propose and certainly will seriously consider this Parliament. I fully support what Mr Bešlagić said in terms of the need for this Parliament to be imposed on other institutions, not to be obedient to some other institutions, even those which he forms and which he establishes and similar. So, I'm up for today to pass this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10535	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Is it a replica? The Republic, so whether it's a replica or an intervention. If it's a discussion, there's a Mr. Živković reported before and then the discussion still. Are there any more reported for discussion? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10536	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I did not expect the discussion in the second reading to open, especially as the discussion concerns the principles of proposed amendments to this law. My intention was not to be a law or entity or federal, but a law at BiH level. Although he was, simply, I asked him to be in the regular procedure. Isn't that a good intention to discuss this law at all levels? Both in the commission and in the first reading here in Parliament, where no one reported about the law, and then came a second reading where they unanimously supported both in the first and second readings of something called, perhaps, lobbying in BiH. As you have seen from the documents you have received, perhaps not all MPs have received the opinion of the Competition Council. Although we, in committees and in Parliament, and according to the Rules of Procedure, are not conversing with the Competition Council, nor is the Management Board for indirect taxation, but the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers had this opinion and, on the basis of that opinion, formed an opinion on this law. In the very opinion of the Competition Council, their views are, to say the contrary. In one part, it states that it is not necessary to amend the law in order to state in another that they have solved the problems, or issues, for 60 days. They also stated in this opinion that it is necessary, in order to initiate the procedure at all, to conclude the initiation of the procedure, that pre-operations are needed. And these advances can be done for 3 months where all documents are taken, entered into the measure of things, and then concluded to be launched, that day should be run as a day from which 6 months are counted. So no one was counting the pre-prepared actions needed to do the Competition Council to start discussing this matter. And since the intentions were good, if the law process had been transparent, if no one had so far made any remarks either at the commission stage or at the first reading, I would ask the MPs to support this law, in the interest of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10537	Thank you very much. No more reports. Here you go, sir. What's a replica or a discussion? Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10538	Mr. Živković, therefore, you spoke of the intentions and you said that the intentions were good. I just want to warn that this law can also be interpreted as a law with bad intentions because it shortens the time and time in which the Competition Council, in the context of all other deadlines under the law and the Law on Administrative Procedure, needs to determine a certain irregularity or violation. There are cases where this council in the fourth month was establishing, respecting, therefore, all deadlines, certain injuries and giving fines and up to 400,000 marks. Don't, don't let people play with this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10539	We're not gonna play safe. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10540	Because we can't change one deadline and leave everyone else as they are, even if it lasts one day until the change, but if we change, we have to make a composition of the deadlines. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10541	Thank you very much. Here's the conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10542	Well, if you really are, I can give up, but I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10543	No, no, I'm not, I'm just asking you to call in time, so I can run some dynamics, etc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10544	Actually, I called earlier. You didn't register.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10546	In fact, in fact, we opened up an unnecessary debate today in one entirely different direction. Today, we are discussing a second reading of the law that we adopted at last session in our first reading. No amendments, no new elements, we have a positive view of the ministry as appropriate. I think all the preconditions are met that we can very easily determine this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10547	Thank you very much. Here's the promoter who gave up on the replica. Are there any more reported? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 24 votes for, 9 against, 2 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Law amending the Competition Act was adopted in a second reading. 35 Thank you. Let's go to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH (first reading) The proposal for a law on pre-school education was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2006 with a request to be considered under Article 104, therefore, by a reduced procedure. At the 4th session of this House, the application for procedure was not adopted, so the law went to regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered an opinion on this proposal on 27 February 2007. She was also the committee responsible for reviewing this law. On 29 March, the Constitutional Commission requested an extension of the deadline for submitting the report, which was approved. We received a report from the committee responsible on 11 April 2007 and, as you have seen from the report, the commission adopted an amendment that became an integral part of the bill. So we're in first reading. I'm opening a debate on this law. Here you go. There is no, so just a little bit, so we have Denis Bećirović, Mr Kalabić. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10549	First of all, I want to say that BiH must enter the process of reforming education more seriously and more strongly at all levels. The system of education as a whole is impossible to improve if it does not define the area of preschool education and education in its system. In this regard, it is therefore necessary to strengthen efforts in the process of harmonisation of education laws and to ensure their effective and uniform implementation throughout the country. Preschool education is obviously necessary to integrate into the entire education system as its initial part, which is also a European standard, and not only do we have a situation to view preschool education as a social category. I now want to speak specifically about some chapters and principles under this law. The first chapter discusses basic principles and objectives. However, I must say here that it is evident that BiH does not have pedagogical standards for pre-school education. Therefore, BiH must adopt, when at that time, pedagogical standards at the state level and this pedagogical standard of pre-school education establish criteria for the number of children in pre-school groups; organisation of programmes in terms of duration and purpose; criteria for the number of educators, professional associates and other employees in pre-school institutions; material and financial conditions of work; pre-school education of children with disabilities in 36 developed and gifted children, as well as pre-school education and education of children bh. citizens living abroad. In the third part, among other things, this chapter discusses the establishment and organisation of preschool institutions. I think here, it would be good here in this position 3 or after it to install a new member or a new point in which to indicate exactly what the preschool establishment act contains.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10550	Mr. Bećirović, I apologize, I failed to say that this law goes according to the old Rules of Procedure and practically the amendment phase, right, Branka, is over.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10551	I'm just doing the way I got in the agenda. Here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10552	But it's in the old Rules of Procedure. I'm talking about the possibilities you're talking about, the amendment, the change.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10553	Yeah. It says first reading, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10554	Yes, but it's according to the old Rules of Procedure and it's the end of the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10555	I'm saying what it's supposed to look like.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10556	I'm sorry. Go ahead, don't get confused.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10557	Okay. So, I think it would be useful in this law, among other things, to have one member talking about what the preschool establishment act contains. How to form preschools if we don't know what the conditions are. Therefore, we must also specify in these acts those provisions, such as the pre-school work programme, the breeders and professional associates, the conditions and the way in which space and equipment are provided. This law should also specify what pre-school institutions are, therefore, the conditions for the start of their activities such as: approved work programme; the required number of educators, professional associates and other employees; secured space and equipment to carry out this activity permanently; providing funds for the establishment and start of pre-school institutions, and what we do not have in most today. 37 In this Article, page 21 of the Official Journal of the European Union is replaced by the following: 5. Among other things, there is also talk of a common core of programmes and plans. That part I want to support, especially this part under d) where it is said that it is necessary to ensure that a positive attitude and sense of belonging to the state of BiH is developed through the educational educational process. I think that's to say hello because the current education system in BiH does not raise young people for tolerance, for co-existence, but rather, mostly education systems, especially in certain parts, it seems to me that they poison entire young generations and do not raise them for tolerance, for peace, or currently raise them, in certain parts, that they love their country. And I think it is very important that this, at this level, at the level of preschool education, we have an educational system that will teach children tolerance, democracy, co-existence and other civilization values, which is obviously missing today in BiH. When it comes to the types of programs here, it is stated that, among other things, certain programmes used in these preschool institutions are complete development programmes, specialized development programmes etc., I think it would be good, perhaps, to some additional member of this law, to specify and add some other important provisions, which is that preschools need to implement programmes for preschool children with developmental disabilities, preschool children's preschool programmes, early learning programmes and other programmes of art, cultural, religious and sports content. In addition, it should be specified that in the implementation of those programmes, preschool institutions are obliged to create, under number one, suitable conditions for the growth and development of each child, complement family education and to establish effective co-operation with parents and direct children's environment. Also, this law lacks, and it would be good to have one provision, that preschool working hours must be consistent with the needs of children and employees of parents, which I believe would be supported by all parents. And finally, when it comes to the annual work programme, here in Article 27, among other things, it is said that an annual programme is being adopted, it is said about who brings it, but there is not a single word about what this annual programme should contain. I think it would really be necessary that we have an annual plan and a work programme, that we have in this law, that it includes educational work programmes, children's health care programmes, which is particularly important, hygiene and nutrition programmes, social protection programmes, as well as other programmes that preschool institutions achieve in agreement with children's parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10558	I thank Mr Bećirović. I really need to point out once again that the procedure for this law is being guided by the old Rules of Procedure, that the amendment phase is practically over. You saw from the commission's report that one amendment was to become an integral part, an integral part of, uh, the law. Of course this discussion is absolutely welcome and it can determine people according to this legal project as a whole, of course. Mr. Kalabić signed up. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10559	Just one correction, Chairman. This is about a proposal for a framework law as it stands, and in the agenda, which we get, that's not how it stands. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10560	I didn't understand you, that we missed in, and indicatively... Without frames, there's nothing. Okay. Here, I apologize for that frame. Okay. Are there any further reports for the hearing? If he doesn't, if he doesn't, I'll close the argument. So we're pleading on this law in our first reading. Please prepare to vote. Vote now, vote now. With 30 votes in favour of, 2 against, 2 abstentions, I find, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we adopted the Law on Preschool Education and Education, i.e. the Framework Law in the first reading. The situation is next. The home can now be declared whether it will go straight to another reading or make a statement later, but with the fact that we can't change, compared to what we have, nothing. So, I suggest we make a statement about whether we're going to go to another reading today or at the next session. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10561	If he can, it's our proposal to go to the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10562	I, I don't mind. So, let's have an open conversation. Are you ready to uphold this law today? If you're not ready today to support what's going to happen in the meantime because there are no amendments. Here we supported him in his first reading. It would be very important if we had one legal project. I really, uh, recommend that, uh, I don't see anything harmful in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10563	I think we've got plenty of time and nothing's gonna happen to the chairman, I think we've shown clearly that we're going to, the thing is procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10564	Well, then, we'll, uh, we'll, uh, we'll vote, we'll vote, we'll go to another reading to conduct the procedure. Here, please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10565	Let me explain, please. We are in Parliament today and in fact we have a law of old, I would say, uh, Rules of Procedure. According to the old Rules of Procedure, we have 39 of these today. If the law passed in the first phase we, whether or not we wanted to, can vote today for going to a second reading, to vote and to break the law or to pass the law. To wait for free, I think it's unnecessary and so I'm joining you to go vote to see if we're first or second.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10566	Here's Mr. Bešlagić, though, to respect the procedure, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10567	So it's procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10568	The home will declare whether it is ready today to declare this law and in a second reading. Please prepare, please prepare, indeed. Here you go, Mr. Živković. It's me, I'm Mr. Novaković, esteeming the great support of the law... Did I notice that she was a good supporter?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10569	Dear Chairman, the fact is that we have reached a great deal of agreement on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10570	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10571	And surely all MPs sitting here agree that this law should be passed. However, as far as the procedure itself is concerned, let me remind you. In the procedure it is allowed in the second reading that if any new conditions come out or tries to comply with one part of the law or, as we have already done in previous laws, what Mr. Džaferović warned, I must say, we can also do with this law so that, and what the SDP suggests, this law is improved, not to be broken. So, I'm asking you not to go to the system here right now, to say, entity voting, revote, to agree to the law going in the second reading where it's safe, only it can be better than it is now adopted, at the next session. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10572	Thank you very much, thank you very much. But here I am, however, to put before Parliament, to decide whether we will plead today or, or later, of course, respecting what you are talking about. Please be prepared to vote. So, we make it clear whether we are going to declare this law today in a second reading or at the next session. Vote now. With 20 votes to, 10 against, four abstentions and an insufficient entity majority, we have not reached a conclusion, i.e., we have not made a decision to declare this law today in a second reading. We'll plead at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10573	Isn't this a match?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10574	Well, obviously, we won't be able to get along today. So, uh, we'll agree on the College. Thank you. Moving to point seven, moving to point seven. Ad. Seven. Annual report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2006 You've received the material in good time. You also received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget that discussed this report. The Commission, to remind you, unanimously supported the annual bank report and forwarded it to this House for adoption. If there is, I can see the chairman of the commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10576	..... The Finance and Budget Commission of the House of Representatives discussed the Central Bank's 2006 annual report and unanimously adopted it. [[You can't hear me.]] I propose to this House that we adopt this report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10577	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Bakir Izetbegović, Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Bakire. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10578	So, this very high-quality report, a comprehensive one, which gives one general picture and this one of our micro-Bosnian ones. I support the report, just one question, uh, for the people at Central Bank. So, about 5 billion KM is a reserve and it's in foreign banks. These are not banks that are present in BiH, so by these means, by Bosnian, we do not support, uh, the economy or the development of BiH. So, is there any way to put the 5 billion that this country needs so far in the role of BiH's development. Forty-one percent of these funds are in English banks, in the banks of Great Britain. I don't think people like that are even present in BiH. We have some Austrian banks, mostly Croatian etc. Domesticly, uh, I know they're not in the range of, uh, these banks where the funds are, uh, deposited, but can you talk to these banks where the funds are deposited, uh, to put that money into function or at least partially put it into function of BiH's development. Or, to consider putting funds into banks, in a certain percentage, which are present in BiH. After all, therefore, if we can help BiH's development, this, by these means.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10579	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10580	I'll just say a few words, and first of all, that I've never received a greater proportion of the report of our commission and the material that the institution has directed. When someone doesn't want to read the material, then make a report like this, so big. Even in this report, the year we're talking about, uh, they put in another financial report. If you compare the 130th page of this report and the 11th page of the financial report, which is the next item, you will see that it is the same. Not just those pages, but a set of the last 30 pages. So, uh, I think this kind of report is unnecessary, and I think it would be good for us to get a report in the work of the Central Bank of BiH in the future with some statistical indicators, not like this for 10 years. I would also like the committee to have made some conclusions, in terms of what Mr Izetbegović was talking about. I remember that over the past years we've had these conclusions, and even some of the assets from the profits, uh, were used, or, or were designated outside, outside of that reserve or reserves, however you wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10581	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Are there any more debaters? Of course, here I am, fixing the missed, missed, and I welcome the governor of the Central Bank on behalf of all of you and me, and, behold, as the debate is concluded, we had one question, and we certainly needed some kind of comment on these suggestions and remarks that Mr. Zorić made. Here you go, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10582	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, it is my honor and pleasure to have the opportunity today, here, to say a few words and to answer these two questions. First of all, the BiH Central Bank's annual report appears once in this high House and we believe it is very useful to give one, I would say, a comprehensive picture of the economy both in the environment and in the BiH economy. On the other hand, after the adoption of this report, we will do, uh, a form of CD where we will send all the MPs this report, that when you travel and when you have encounters that you have these useful data about bh. The economy and the economy in the environment, so on that side, I think that, yeah, uh, not all of this data and this analysis that we've done. On the other hand, this financial report is true to appear twice, but, uh, the BiH Central Bank Act, the financial report, is an integral part of the annual report. So by standards he must be an integral part of this report that you are considering today. Also, let me just say, here's just that we, did make a profit of cca 79 million KM and that in April of this month, we already transferred 19.9 million to support state institutions. So 19.9m has already been transferred to BiH institutions, and last year it was around 19.6m. When it comes to this, Mr. Izetbegović, which is, which has asked a question about keeping our reserves, is often, uh, so to speak, a dilemma is being created, uh, what about these reserves, right, and where they are being kept. We gave on page 42 very transparently, this, where we keep the reserves and, in fact, it's spare money – security for our converting brand, the basis for it, that it has, uh, value. So, since we're working on a currency board and every converting mark in circulation has its own 100 percent coverage, these reserves are invested in world-class first-class banks. Our guidelines are very strict and, therefore, we invest in banks, the smallest, the smallest, the smallest rating of two and a minus, and we have, too, a second limitation – we cannot invest in one bank more than 15% of our pornography. Also, as of last year, 20%, 25% of our portfolios started investing in securities, which also gave for, for the result, more income than, the investment. When it comes to keeping these banks and this mention of Great Britain, it is true that 40% of our reserves are concentrated on the London financial market, which is one of the largest financial markets in the world, but these are not just English banks. Here's just an example for, say, Germany, Deutsche Bank is represented 7.78%, Dutch Rapl Bank 7.46%, Austrian Nashl Austrian Bank 7.66%, Škodska Real Bank 8.77 and we have 3 English banks. The only commercial bank that had a rating of 2A was Hippo Bank and we had approximately 200 million KM invested somewhere, but it lost Austria's state guarantee, lost that rating and has A-. Our intention is to go around these banks where we hold our funds and talk in this direction where the esteemed MP has discussed it, so let's see which benefits BiH can withdraw, whether these banks are ready to follow these big projects of ours, and on the other hand, we're also talking at the Central Bank to try to loosen these, uh, procedures. These are our guidelines because we already have a problem because there aren't enough high-quality banks of this rank in which we guard. However, the Central Bank is not a profit organization. Our first principle is security, protection from risk, and these are known world standards, and I mean precisely because we achieve the results of what we achieve. 43 I hope that these funds will be in the capacity to support development because it is certainly our goal, and I think this monetary stability that we have provided, which we keep in place to make a full contribution to the development of BiH's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10583	Thank you, Governor Kozarić. He has an additional question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10584	So one billion KM a year would make us a highway within 7 years, 6 to 7 years. We have 5 billion, uh, KM by banks outside of BiH. Normally, the first Usus is to preserve the stability of the currency, but I think that one skillful negotiation, one good approach and activity, could make us out of those five billion manage to get a loan from these one billion-dollar banks and build a highway and preserve stability. And if we're not able to do that, there's something wrong with it. We should be able to do that. Out of your 5 billion, get a loan from those banks and build a highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10585	Thank you, Mr. Izetbegović. Do you have a comment, Mr. Governor?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10586	So all I can say is that the free reserves are 267 million and they can be space for this combination. So it's not billions to invest. I repeat that it's a cover for domestic currency. The currency wouldn't be worth it. We'd have unvalued papers if we didn't have this foreign exchange coverage. So, they're not, these are up to 100% not investment funds, but they're the basis for conversations, they're the basis for loans, they're the basis for guarantees.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10587	They don't keep them in the vault, they invest them. So on the capital market, they're giving us 3% a year, which is where they invest 4-5%, here. So somewhere they place them, so we need to negotiate to place them here, part of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10588	Okay, I agree with that, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10589	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Governor. So, here, it was useful to hear this and the average citizens in BiH certainly when they hear about our 5 billion reserves, etc. They ask themselves: why don't we use it, etc., but there are these mandatory reserves, but, of course, there is a possibility, the governor announced that talks on the subject of the possibility of a loan will be held, etc. What Mr. Izetbegović was talking about. Here, I hope we've got the right answers. 44 If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. And please prepare to make a statement about this report. Vote now. With 32 votes for, against nothing, a abstention of 2, sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives adopted the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2006. We move to the next item of the agenda, and this is about: Ad. 8. Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2006 financial report And this report has also considered ours, I'm talking about the Financial Report, I'm talking about the point as an integral part, well, well. Here's to confirm, Mr. Zorić, to determine a little. So, I remind you, too, that the Commission has considered this document and made a positive report and unanimously supported it. So, I'm opening a debate on this financial report. Obviously, we've discussed him, too. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 33 votes in favour, without prejudice, with one abstention, I conclude that a financial report by the Central Bank of BiH for 2006 has been adopted. I thank the Governor of Central Bank and congratulate, of course, on the adopted reports. We're moving on. We're moving on to Ad. Nine. Central Election Commission's 2006 report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's work
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome both you and the chairman as well as all the representatives of this House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. I'm not going to add anything new, uh, I just wanted to say, so what the report also indicated, that, let me say, the main part of the Central Election Commission's work last year was holding general elections. I would also like to say that for the first time since the Dayton Agreement, therefore, since '95, domestic authorities have organised and conducted one election for the first time, that is, in this case, a general election. So it is very important for us, which has come to great support this morning at a session of the Constitutional Commission, this, your support to those proposed by our recommendations, in fact, addressed to you, to approach, which is one of the conclusions of this Commission, amendments and additions to the laws mentioned, so all 3 laws, because we encounter great problems through their implementation or implementation. Here, then, nothing special. I welcome you all, and I would like to ask you on behalf of the Central Election Commission to accept the recommendations and the proposal of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10593	Thank you, Mr. Mikić. Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Novaković, Mr. Dolić. Excuse me, here's Mr. Raguž right behind Džaferović. Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10594	This is a good report by methodology and content, and we highlighted it in the Constitutional and Legal Commission report. What I would like to add to the report by the Commission itself is to suggest to the College that after we adopt this report and after we adopt the proposals for the conclusions proposed by the Constitutional Commission, the College, in fact, coordinating activities with the College of the Second House and the Council of Ministers and the Election Commission, prepare for the next session a proposal from the members of this House, which would take part in this interresor working group to prepare proposals for amendments to the Election Law, the Law on the conflict of interest and the Law on the financing of political parties, because it is not necessary to spend words to prove that it is necessary to enter into amendments to these laws, in the way that the Election Commission speaks and in its report, which are identified as reasons in the session of the Constitutional Commission. That's it, thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10595	Thank you. The next one answered for Mr. Raguž's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10596	Thank you. I welcome all honourable MPs and representatives, members of the Council of Ministers, the Election Commission and all guests. I think that this report, which is before us, on the work of the Central Election Commission, deserves a few words on behalf of each club, since it has indeed been done, as the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Džaferović said, and quality and structured and detailed. I would say it gives us insight into what happened in 2006 when general elections were held in BiH. Before I say a few suggestions related to this report, I think that as an initial evaluation, we should all in some way give recognition, not only because she held about 100 sessions, 16 press conferences, discussed, made so many regulations, decisions, but because of the fact that what we have declared, that domestic institutions will take responsibility from international ones, and we know that in this election process there was a strong role of international organisations, primarily OSCs, we can give that assessment that this task is truly successful and perhaps for example for all others in.... taking responsibility. Here's what I wanted to say specifically. The other thing is whether some of the things that are open are still in this election process, I'm just going to illustrate some. Here we are today not yet established power in two counties in two cantons, Central and Herzegovina-Neretvanska, which we do not yet have from the Election Commission in the report pointed to this problem and the legal constraints which are not, or where it is not specified, in which terms, as well as whose responsibility all in this process, I think there is room for this report to be completed. Not because of the Electoral Commission, but because of the role of the Parlement as a legislator where it is necessary to work seriously in these 4 years until the next general elections, preferably before the local ones, that the Law on, the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest is primarily being intervened, because here it states how many cases the Election Commission intervened. Unfortunately, in some cases she was late, not perhaps with their responsibility during the elections, to very important functions such as the selection of rectors at the University etc. And around that, the public must have insights about who violates the law, who respects it. This law on conflict of interest is unsettled and it is a great responsibility for us and for the representatives to move forward in this period together with the Election Commission to specify the Law on Conflict of Interest. I also think that the Law on the financing of political parties is something that must be a priority in this context of reform in the Electoral Law. The Law on conflict of interest, the Law on the financing of political parties should also be a priority for this home to create an additional synergy with this quality work of the Election Commission and to include Parliament in this and in some way make the Council of Ministers responsible and to actively engage in this whole election process. It has been shown that the benefits of passive voter registration exist but also many shortcomings, work and the fill-up of election committees I think is something that is the weakest point of the election process. The way in which political parties reacted through the appointment of their people, 47 abuses of certain positions here and in some way selling places on election committees, a huge number of invalid ballots that have affected the regularity of election processes, which would have been possible to document a number of other things, deserve, therefore, that we, as the House of Representatives, create a more positive environment for the work of the Election Commission at all levels, and here other than these legal assumptions, I am also thinking of legally, about their position, which is not fully regulated, then financial, spatial and other conditions, which should be taken as an obligation when adopting this report. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10597	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10598	I would kind of comment on this part of the recommendation, i.e., the last indent, which is, in fact, pre-lated, practical, and the last one that speaks about the need for enlargement, i.e., the inability of the existing two investigative teams to carry out all the tasks from which, of course, the need to expand or receive new staff in order to make the Central Election Commission's activities in terms of implementation(?) contracts extended to municipal and cantonal levels. In fact, the fact that the need for new staff is also going to mean changes in budgets for this year. I am interested in whether the Central Election Commission has foreseen in its request, meaning, and whether budget planning for this enlargement has been carried out. If it isn't, then I'm afraid we have a serious problem, accepting such recommendations, we are, in fact, giving the Green Light to the Central Election Commission to do this job, not making sure they have or do not have certain resources in the budget. So, I'd like to ask that here, uh, I have a very clear answer, given that, I say, this acceptance of this recommendation implies some other consequences. I support, although I have not been on the Commission, but I support Commission position 5, and I think that as soon as necessary, together with the College of the House of Peoples, I will provide the opportunity to form this interresor... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10599	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10600	... esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. And I join in expressing satisfaction with the fact that we have received one neat material, material with so much useful analysis for the full information of the Parliamentary Assembly and MPs. 48 The fact that the previous general elections were organised for the first time and the rules of the domestic institutions were made, suggests that, with all the weaknesses and failures, this job was satisfactory and high-quality and that another BiH institution was put into office. The very fact that the number of registered voters for the 2006 elections, compared to 2004, is 4 years earlier, by 440,000, is in favour of being on track to get a well-organised and organised area of which BiH is heavily dependent on further democratisation. So, methodologically, I essentially express my satisfaction with this report, and I cite it as an example of the relationship of a BiH institution to Parliament and MPs. Since this is a very important area, I would like to point out, in my opinion, and the two weaknesses that have come to light in the previous elections, which are, operationally, in the responsibility of the Central Election Commission. The first weakness concerns how voters are registered in the post office. Although there have been some improvements and simplifications in this procedure, I must say, it is not enough to allow more BiH citizens with a temporary stay abroad to apply and create conditions to vote in BiH's elections. The main stumbling block that causes difficulties to those who would like to participate as voters in the BiH elections is the obligation to attach, with the application form, the belief of citizenship and the belief of the BiH place of residence. This is often an insurmountable obstacle for most of our citizens in the diaspora and they remain deprived of their right to vote. I propose to the Central Election Commission to consider the possibility of using data from BiH institutions for these two beliefs, as it is unrealistic to expect a man from America, Canada, Australia and other destinations to come to BiH personally and, say, raise confidence about permanent residence or belief in citizenship, etc. When it comes to post-election, another weakness has been expressed, which is that the voting material reaches registered voters in one number late. I don't know what the reason for this is, but I personally know more examples of where the voting material came even after the election or for one member within one family came in time, and for others he was late. This question is, by the way, important to consider and improve because I am not talking about this from a political position, but from the position that, by participating in election decisions, BiH citizens in the diaspora, in a way, we are bound to the state of BiH and to enable them (?) in its democratisation. The second weakness that has come to terms is the delay in counting votes and publishing the election results. This, unfortunately, made us the subject of an anecdote and carication throughout the democratic world. I think that, with all objective difficulties, there is no reason for this, and this issue should be brought into acceptable and decent frameworks by the Central Election Commission. So, in the end, I accept the proposal for conclusions and recommendations of the Central Election Commission because it is about proposals that in time, normatively, regulate the issues which in the functioning of the Election Law are currently causing confusion and problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10601	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Gospoda Mehmedović, Kalabić and Bahtić, I have so many reported. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10602	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. I, of course, consider this report by the Central Election Commission, can only praise this report because it is both comprehensive and detailed and comprehensive and professional, even more, excellent. However, I would like to point out a problem which was slightly touched by the previous speaker, Mr Dolić, which is, in fact, a post office vote, i.e. in absentia, i.e., the diaspora problem. In the last 2002 elections, the post office vote voted, I think, 37,000. In the last election, it is 32000, and according to some estimates, nearly half a million people with voting rights live in the diaspora. So, if we have that in mind, we sitting here are, in a way, a distorted image of the will of the citizens. To avoid these things happening, because of the very complicated procedures of applying for a vote in absentia, and the short deadline for reporting, and the lack of time for election material, etc., here, I want to draw attention to the Central Election Commission, to take measures and actions in time, perhaps to facilitate these procedures concerning voting in absentia. And for that reason, here I am, and I have signed up to underline this very important question because if half a million people aren't interested in the election because of the complicated procedure, then we have to do something to make it easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10603	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović. Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10604	Dear colleagues, I have said on the Constitutional Legal Commission, a lot is said today in previous discussions of colleagues who are also members, but here I also want to highlight a few things and, normally, also support the Report and Recommendations. Two things are important when it comes to an Electoral Commission which, with a report like this, can be said to be sending two messages. One is that it's a lot of studio and thorough work, extensive work, let's also say good work has put her in a position to recognize certain things and certain situations, to call them slightly illogical and to point to the need for legal regulation of these things. We have institutions that don't do their job well and many illogical things stand in the loop because simply people don't like to get to them. Here in one thorough work they have indicated that there are such things that normally need to be done and that is up to us, and that is clearly stated in the recommendations and in the conclusions, means that, therefore, in all those laws concerning the Election Commission, let us make repairs. That they are given certain mechanisms necessary to ensure that the voter's will is achieved as best possible. There are, of course, things we're not completely satisfied with. We have, let's say, I'm not sure that at this point, the BiH Election Commission has an insight into the financial situation of the political parties participating in the elections. She has a phemal insight, she has formal reports, but if they were to essentially say, if they had an insight, I'm not sure I can say it at this point and confirm that everything that's in those reports has been delivered, that this reflects the 50th real state of funding of political parties during the election campaign. There is probably something that needs to be done on legislation, and is that, then, additionally, so to speak, the tools in the hands of the Electoral Commission so that we can say completely and then we have after the election of a particular media speculation on the financing of a political campaign of some political parties in this way and in this way. For us, it would always be the most appropriate, an opinion, meaning the Election Commission to which these reports are submitted. And what I want to finally say is that this is how the BiH Election Commission sent a clear message when all institutions do their jobs, that the international community can go home. When I say the international community, then we remember that in the election process when the representatives of the international community were present in some way, we had various problems. I wouldn't repeat them here right now, but a lot of illogical, unexplainable situations, and if only now, when we started doing it, we had really one fair and correct electoral process in a positive mile, where we had, I could say, one tolerated situation, so, during the election campaign. So, the message is clear, that certain institutions, when they do their job well-intentioned and fully, are not exactly supposed to be present everywhere in various forms, that certain things here can be done in this way, along with, of course, the attitude that we will support this election commission report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10605	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. We've still got Mr. Bahtić on board, and this is how we end the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10606	I also accept the Central Election Commission Report, I commend. I am also pleased that domestic institutions have passed the exam that we can do some things without the participation of the international community and more successfully than when they have supervised from the international community this election. I fully support the discussion of fellow Members of Parliament Martin Raguž. He pointed to some shortcomings. And I'm going to point out some things about municipal election committees. These days we have, probably because of a lot of complaints from the field, a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10607	Please be patient to follow the session, to walk a little less, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10608	The problem is that municipal election commissions, of course, it is democracy, municipal councils, they choose those members there and often it happens that it is unilaterally all members, not all members, but, if there is one party in power somewhere, it puts its 3, from other peoples, they place them under the alleged signs of Sejd Bajramović, so that one party controls 100% of the five municipal election commissions. I think we should do something about it now because then, when elections and election committees are put together, various manipulations are being done. You'll get complaints... they probably did. 51 And the other thing I would like to point out is to see us in one of the parliaments, here did not pass from the order of others, the candidate, Mr Šehić, let's see, College, the Electoral Commission one, to put together this commission and move into the procedure, what is now the status of the one who has not received support from Parliament, is he entitled to work, decides. If there is, let it work and get started urgently in the process. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10609	Thank you. Here, this is how we've exhausted the order of the reported debaters. The Central Election Commission's report is just one sentence, one of the few reports of the institution that has unanimous support and the Commission, here, and MPs, so I wonder if it's Bog, this one, but here it can change us. But here, like this, uh, so there were questions here and there were some dilemmas here, and I think, Mr. Mikić, it would be good to explain that before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10610	The questions are very difficult. Namely, it is precisely the proposal of the Constitutional Commission and those of our recommendation to approach the amendments to all three laws and appropriate solutions, therefore, in these amendments it will resolve, here, many of these remarks that you have highlighted. Of the election boards, the way they choose in the current situation, according to current legislation they are chosen as they are chosen, but it is obviously not good. Enough, here you are, as political representatives, the MPs have noticed. And with that, we had big problems in the election process. As far as the documentation is concerned, here is our recommendation to access the harmonisation of the BiH Election Law and these two other laws that we are implementing, with other laws on which we had to rely, from the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on residence, the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH, etc. So it's going to be a special problem again. The essence of this, Mr. Novakovic's particular question was about the finances, are they secure? Here, I can tell you that a few days ago we got our consent to the Council of Ministers for Amendments and Supplements of our Rules on the Internal Organisation of the Secretariat or the Secretariat of the Central Election Commission but, with that agreement, there were dynamics, therefore, from this 7th to 10th year, how we can employ certain staff and among them investigators but also the dynamics of funding, which, in some ways, gave us our consent. So, and in this respect, we have to stick to it, follow it, we'll try to get by and do this part of our job because, of course, we'll try as hard as we can. Here, nothing else, I thank everyone, especially Mr. Kalabić, a representative who seems to me to have spoken best of all, although there is certainly something he could have criticized. We're ready to continue with this kind of work. Here's all we're asking for is your support. And please keep in mind, I think, whether it's the President of the Constitutional Commission or one of you who discussed it, if perhaps Mr. Raguž, our status – we are now in one rented space, a lot of money is spent on it. We believe that our relationship with you and our powers stem from this high house. We should be located somewhere, but here, the presidency of this tall home will also help solve that problem. I thank you all if there are no other questions. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10611	Thank you, Mr. Mikić. I hope that all MPs who have asked some questions have received, in some ways, clarification and answer. Here, let us bring this debate to an end, that is, this point of the agenda. So, to make a statement on the Report, and also to accept the opinion of our Constitutional Commission, and in particular point 5. So I stress point 5 that goes towards the proposal to form an inter-resor group, of course, with the logistic assistance of the Election Commission that would do and prepare these possible changes and additions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10612	(distant from the microphone is weakly heard)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10613	Okay. Well, that's what it says, that's what it says, Šefik. I won't miss it, but just to remind you that by voting and adopting this, we're not voting specifically. So, to make a statement on the report, let us accept the recommendations of the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Of course, with congratulations to the Electoral Commission, I agree that with 34 votes, without votes against, and abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority we accepted the Central Election Commission's 2006 report. I thank the members of the Central Election Commission for their presence and for the clarifications they gave. We're crossing, I suggest we bring the end of the session, I think we can get there real quick. So, just a little patience. We're going to point 11, we have, Ad. Ten. A report on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Law Department for 2006, With the conclusion that we have Mrs Miletić present, therefore, the BiH defence attorney. We also have the opinion of our Constitutional Commission on this report. So, here I am calling, i.e., asking the President of the Constitutional Commission and asking Mrs Miletić, do they have a need to speak? If they don't, I'm opening a debate. Mr. Bajazit Jašarević. I'm interpreting this so you don't need to talk. Thank you. Yeah, you're right, Šefik. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević. A little patience, please. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10615	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In front of us is a brief and clear report on the work of the BiH Law Department and giving support to this report,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10616	Please, a little patience to finish this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10617	Let me draw attention to the following. BiH's defence office, as I understand this report, is seeking the support of this home in a faster development of a law on state property as a prerequisite for more effective work by the pravobranilaštvo, and I propose that this House commits the Council of Ministers to a working group that previously formed that 60 days should this law on state property be in regular parliamentary procedure. Since it's clear from the report how much the attack on the state and state property is, I think it would be very useful to have one practice in place, that the most large litigation cases are shown in the table, and it's good that this kind of disproportionate between what people count on in the budget and what the courts judge. So, below one percent of the claims have been resolved against BiH but this attack on the Budget BiH will continue and I think it would be a useful practice for such a single review to be delivered in future defence reports and for the sake of the public, but also for the sake of seeing what tactics are being played against our budget. A special segment are items with an element of abroad, and I think this chapter should be exhibited more objectively in the future, and I suggest that, therefore, if possible, and I am convinced that there is a database there, that all cases with a foreign element are in favour of this report, because this is a particularly sensitive chapter when it comes to the wide public in BiH. Finally, on page 10, I would have one technical detail, so in the execution of the Budget, it's not 0.71% execution of the planned, or 0.71 of the planned, or 71%. So it's probably up to the computer. It's a technical mistake, yes. But this last star there, which says the pravobranilaštvo's office will target its engagement as high as possible towards the legal protection of property, property rights of BiH. In that sense, the pravobranilaštvo will file lawsuits for the determination or transfer of property to... property rights and enter the position of its property. I support, therefore, this conclusion, but I would love it very much, because that's how it's recognised that the list of things, the review of it already exists. And then it would be very good if the review of that property and those rights were listed in one of the contributions as already stated here. And I would still highlight this table that shows the work report for the period in 2006. These objects with an element of abroad, how disproportionate it is, and when it comes to these matters, 54 are between what is sought and what the courts judge. However, as it is said in the courts, I think it is very important that we give support to the D.A. for sensitivity, therefore, what they are dealing with and in the next period should be the human resources structure, as stated in the report, filled in in in every way because the effective work of the D.A. is a valid protection of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10618	Thank you, Mr. Jašarević. Any further reports? Mr. Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10619	Thank you. Here's Mr. Jašarević said the most important part of what I was about to say, but here I think it's good today to have two thematic reports, two important state bodies one after the other and that in some way this home and the public can give a measurement assessment of their work. I think this report of the pravobraniteljstvo General has also been done seriously and studioically and points to what has been done, but here, I have therefore volunteered, to potentiate, point out what should be done so that the Attorney General can further represent and protect the interests, i.e. the property of BiH. There are two things, already mentioned the Property Act, which, as far as we can see from this information, is somewhere paused or at the end of the mandate of the members of the Commission that was formed to prepare the draft of this law, so we do not know what the status of it is, and I think it is important to determine who and in which dynamics will prepare this law and deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly as well as the fact that we have here a proposal of the Advocate General to the Council, the Ministry of Justice for the Amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman, which will more precisely define the status of certain competences and other issues important for the work of this body, so that is what awaits us and I think that, with the adoption of this report, we should take over and part of our own obligations in this regard. There's another thing here that's indicative, which is that the number of objects received is increasing and that, I would say, is drastic. And I don't see one here right now, uh, I'd say, to the end of a precise assessment, and we can hear that from the attorney general, Mrs. Miletić, is this the kind of personnel structure and organisational structure that can track that kind of increased demands to the D.A.? So that would be my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10620	Thank you very much. Are there any further applications for discussion? If he doesn't, I only have one question, so I'm not going to go out, probably the D.A.'s gonna need to answer these questions earlier. So here, in the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it has been concluded that failure to fill the position, etc., in the Attorney General's Office can produce certain consequences in the work. I want you to explain to me what position you're thinking of. Is he referring to the deputy attorneys, what about those 55 rotations, etc.? There are some inconsistencies that have come to me, so I'd like you to tell us precisely how it is with the human filliness, in terms of the deputy rotation, etc. Here, uh, that's what I wanted to ask. If there are no more questions and discussions, please welcome Mrs Miletić, to give us a brief answer to these questions that have been raised through the discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10621	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs. I would like to welcome you on behalf of the BiH Attorney General and on my own behalf. I thank you for asking questions. I'll try this opportunity to answer my questions. First, I will support the suggestion of the honourable MP Bajazit. Namely, your suggestion was to bring out, uh, not only the table, but also to text-read certain items that deserve attention in view of the level of the case. Namely, in this report on page 5, the Attorney General listed several cases where BiH was being sued, i.e., more specifically, the Directorate for indirect taxation, whose value of the dispute is about 1,835,831 or 2 million or something. I have to say, these are the items that appeared during 2006 and we've processed these items here. In 2007, such cases will be much more valuable. The D.A. will pay attention to these cases during the 2007 report period and will inform this distinguished home on these cases in detail. As for the subject matter with a foreign element, in this register, cases are handled in international courts or in the courts of the former states of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I must say here that BiH's Attorney General has taken legal action to protect the interests of property and property rights, which is also the primary task of this body, prescribed by the provisions of Article 13, and initiated litigation proceedings with regular courts to hand over property owned by BiH's head. I must say here that it is property whose title was before the SRBiH, then the Republic of BiH, and now BiH, of course, according to the Constitution, Article I, whose legal successor is BiH. These properties, I must say, are located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia more precisely in the Dubrovnik area. So we have real estate that I've had a chance to see. It was a Bosnian woman who served as representative, as a representative object of the former SRBiH, we have Hotel Vis, we have our Villa Aurora. I must say that Will Aurora is free and with her can the Council of Ministers, that is, this distinguished House be at its disposal the way he decides. I proposed on the Council of Ministers at the beginning of the 3rd month a way of resolving this property and these measures were adopted by having been imposed on the Ministry of Finance and Treasury that, of course, at the conclusion that we had proposed, to perform the art of this facility so that the Council of Ministers, i.e. you knew how to dispose of the 56 object. Whether we're going to reshuffle for our own needs, whether we're going to sell, replace, concession, that's the thing on the Council of Ministers, that is, on you. What the hell is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10622	Please, a little more patience. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10623	As for other cases with a foreign element, I must say that the courts outside the former territory of Yugoslavia are also aware of this institution. Namely, I, as BiH's defender, represented BiH before the Supreme Court in London in a case where all the countries of the former Yugoslavia were sued, and the case stems from the Annex C Agreement on Succession Issues. In fact, the former state of Yugoslavia had deposited funds with a bank located in London and, of course, through the decomposition of Yugoslavia, the funds were to be shared between the countries of the Successor, and among other things, BiH received some of those funds, not a little, but 7,800,000, which I gave you in detail. This dispute ended with all the states that were sued in this dispute finding a way, that is, to conclude a judicial settlement. It's about your questions. As regards issues or findings, which make it difficult for this body to protect its assets, there is no legal regulation, more specifically the law on state property. I must say here that the Council of Ministers has appointed a working group for the creation of this law whose task was to determine the items of property and the means of distribution of that property. The working group consisted of 14 members and consisted of both representatives of entities, i.e. the RS and representatives of the Federation and representatives of BiH. I must say, for two years of underage work on making this law and delivering drafts to the Council of Ministers for making proposals to this respected House, that the commission has not come up with at least some kind of solution, that is, has not made up, has written two versions of the draft, but because of the disagreement of the members of the committee, these plans have not seen the light of day. I must say that I became a member of that commission six months ago and that BiH's Attorney General has made a major contribution to this draft. I must also say that the mandate of this committee appointed by the Council of Ministers has ceased and that we do not have any competent people to offer the draft of this law to the Council of Ministers. I therefore support the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, to refer the Council of Ministers to the proposal to put this law into practice as quickly as possible, and by putting an anatema on what belongs to the state and what belongs to entities. Now, before that, this Attorney General would be somewhere easier to respond to an assignment. As for my esteemed colleague, Martin, he saw well that the number of cases increased compared to the previous year. For the time being, the D.A. with this kind of coverage, as it is now completed, can respond to the task, but I have to tell you 57 that the D.A. has called a competition to fill out the assistants, and this contest is due to end in May. And as for the deputy, you saw, I wrote in the report, that earlier my colleagues who were deputies and defenders, because this function is subject to rotation, that they left this institution and that I am, for the time being, performing, and my mandate expires 1.6. and this procedure for the appointment of deputies and lawyers is under way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10624	Thank you, Mrs. Miletić. Are you done? Thank you very much. So, here, you heard, uh, and clarifications and comments and answers to some of our questions from Mrs Miletić. So, we've closed the debate. We've got to get to the bottom of this report. We have the opinion and opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which also recommends that this report be accepted and, in its opinion, also finds it necessary to fill out what Mrs Miletić was talking about. It also adopted a majority of votes conclusion asking the Council of Ministers to address BiH's property issue through urgent proposal, law-making in the area. I think this conclusion can go for the simple reason, here, we have heard information that something is simply being done and that this parliament will eventually get some kind of proposal. So here, for the debate included, I invite you to come forward with this report with this opinion. Vote now. With 30 votes for, without prejudice, 1 abstention, I agree that we adopted a report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2006. Congratulations to Mrs. Miletić and I thank you for your presence, too, and for the deputy justice minister, Mr. Srđan Arnaut, who was also present on this agenda point and other points. Moving to point 12. So it's about the report, 11 pardons. So it's about Ad. 11. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliamentarian Sadik Ahmetović, proposed at the 7th session of the House You received the report and you saw that we had not reached agreement. We now have to plead, so to speak, in the second round of voting. We all vote on the conclusion because time has passed. So we all vote and those who are in favour and those who are against and those who are abstentions. Please make sure, of course, the deciding votes are against. Please vote now. What Šefik says, vote yes. So with 15 votes against, 11 against, 4 abstentions and an insufficient entity majority, I find that this conclusion did not get the necessary majority. We're going to the next item on the agenda, so it's point 12. 58 Ad. 12 Consideration of the initiative to launch a public campaign against the exploitation of black workers and the establishment of a list of employers who employ black workers - proposed by MP Denis Bećirović,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10627	I am above all taking the opportunity to thank all MPs who accepted this SDP Club initiative at the last session of the BiH House of Representatives to find this item of the agenda at today's meeting, as it is, whether it is the problem of working on black and establishing a list of employers who employ black workers. I want to point out immediately that I have no illusion that today's sensitive and difficult issue can be resolved immediately, however, I think it is useful to at least open this issue at the highest level today, therefore, in the BiH Parliament. Unfortunately, for more than a year, mainly in our country, there have been issues and policies that only deepen fears and uncertainty among the people and citizens of this country, and very little seems to me to be talking about the existential life problems of citizens. So, unfortunately, we have a situation to continue the trend of working on black from earlier years, which confirms analyses of both international organisations and the World Bank. The most pronounced activities in which this form of work occurs are construction, agriculture and services, according to data from the Federal Employment Office. The average unemployment rate in the Federation of BiH alone was about 47.6% last year and tended to grow compared to the previous year. Only the number of unemployed in the last four years has increased by 82,142 workers. The black labour market, apparently, leaves huge consequences for the country's entire society and economy. Working on black is certainly one of the biggest problems facing BiH authorities. According to some estimates, BiH loses about 250 million KM annually, which should enter pension and health funds and social programmes. Given that, the Council of Ministers, in particular the entity governments, must take this issue seriously and offer concrete plans to change this situation because it is more than an obvious need to reform the labour market. The big problem, which has also been confirmed by a number of relevant research, is that workers working on black and whose rights are being violated do not see almost a purpose in the fight against the existing situation. As I prepare for today's session of Parliament, I have collected certain statistics and, according to data from the entity and state statistics agencies, of 810.792 workers, they are estimated to be 241.740 working on black. Although they have no guarantee that overtime, health and pension insurance will be paid, the army of black workers 59 mostly wants to report their employers to the competent institutions. Instead, according to research conducted for the needs of the Research Reporting Centre, they are passively waiting for things to be resolved on their own. Most of the workers in the survey said that the fact that the unreported influences the way they experience their job. About 90% of respondents said they would be more efficient and responsible at work, that the employer had reported them. It seems that workers who are trying to keep their current jobs or simply survive in the present are aware of how uncertain their future is. To the question, what are your plans for the future, 62% of black workers answered how they hoped things would change in the future. The answers are also very interesting and this shows that most black workers would not report their employers even though they violate their rights guaranteed by law. Among the most common excuses is the opinion that nothing will change, the fear of finding a new job. Research by the entity and state statistical institutions revealed that 1/3 of the workers are black men, and nearly 60% of them are between 25 and 49 years old, and most of them are with a high school degree. According to statistics, the Tuzla Canton, for example, has four times as many black workers as Sarajevo. These data were also confirmed by the first people of the Federation of BiH Chamber of Commerce who say the research also coincided with research conducted by entities' chambers of commerce. But these data, too, do not give a real picture of the black market in BiH, because if looked beyond BiH's borders, the data is even worse. For example. About 5,000 BiH workers in Croatia, mostly construction workers, are working on black. The World Bank, in the 2005 report, proposes rooted reforms in the field of labour relations. Its experts believe there is a strong link between high unemployment and the black labour market. With all this in mind, I propose, therefore, and I have submitted a proposal for a conclusion that I propose today to task the BiH Council of Ministers to launch a public campaign in co-operation with entity governments against the exploitation of black workers, and to form within 6 months a black list of employers who employ black workers or operate in other unauthorized ways, i.e. do not reconcile obligations towards workers. Following the implementation of the information required in that conclusion, MPs should also be sent to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. I think this conclusion is a minimum of what the BiH Parliament can do and do. I expect from all governments, from the Council of Ministers through entity governments to the cantonal, that after today's session they bring even more concrete measures to increase the formal(?) employment. Someone may have forgotten, but this government, therefore, which is currently being established, has committed to making formal employment, to increase formal employment by 150,000 workers. Therefore, in this 2007 alone, formal employment should be increased by just over 37,000 workers. I think that these are major obligations before BiH, in front of the structures of the government in this country, and I think it would be useful today to adopt this conclusion and open this story and launch a public campaign in the fight against black labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10628	Thank you, Denis, for your very broad argument and lobbying for your conclusion. Here is the discussion by Sadik Bahtić, Jerko Ivanković and Milorad Živković. And Mr. Novaković. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10629	I am glad that we are discussing this problem today because it is a burning problem in BiH. We know that we are in a very difficult economic situation, and the main problem is, these are the problems. However, I will have a slightly different discussion from my colleagues,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10630	Do you need a break? If you want to take a break, uh, I don't mind, uh, I was thinking about finishing the session and doing it rationally. But if you want a break, here's a two-hour break and we'll continue around 5. I don't mind. I don't mind. Is anyone looking for a break?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10631	We're not looking, we're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10632	Patience a little, I'm just asking you to be patient. Here you go, Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10633	Here's what I'll do, five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10634	Well, sit down. I won't let you walk, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10635	Now, I think behind this initiative, we know that here is the jurisdiction of the municipalities, the canton, that there are control authorities in charge, the inspections of this one should do the main job. In my opinion, we should reward the inspection bodies well and that they do their job honestly and honestly regardless of who is behind them, etc. I wouldn't support this proposal by concluding that it's writing a blacklist, but writing a red list. I don't like anything black, especially some employer's black list. You have very honest employers who have come into such a situation because of an unfavourable business environment and because we have not given them the environment, passed laws, so people cannot carry out their obligations to the state. I'm going to give an example from the Un-San canton where I was the chairman of the Un-San Forests Supervisory Board. There was the biggest crime in the history of USK and, believe me, there were tens of millions of marks, there was work going on, and when we entered the Management Board to see how it was done, 9 million, I'm going to say, 9 million services cut in a year, 9 million, and they're doing all the companies from RS, Bosniak firms, so I know, from Tesla, so 9 million. Number one, 10% of our canton lost its taxes, its services, 900 thousand marks, millions. I send 61 cantonal labour inspectors, Munever, to Banja Luka, now the judge goes to the woods, where they do those services cut, all and one black worker. The deal between the UN-San forest and those doing services is 17 to 20 marks. And those upstairs in the tent sleep poor, and the četiti, they say they work 5-7 marks, all black. I got a list, a name and a last name, and when you take nine million, six million marks, you wash that pimp and these companies. That's 100% black. And, believe me, the only one for a report in the UN-San forest, besides all that, voted all over the SDP because Lagumdžija called on one of Sarajevo's initiatives to cut the report. Directly, the SDP supported the work on black. And that's why I don't like this demagogue under Canton. Because they're just saying everything, everything, and those where the biggest things are everywhere SDP participates. I know, here it says 150,000 jobs, promised power. You should, let him. Here I propose a modus -- two brewers, 60,000 jobs. 500 million in Bihac, 100 million, 600 million. Everything illegal. In Bihaq, gentlemen dear, Žitoprerada are 23% of the shares in the brewery. The director of the brewery informed the Žitoprerada that there were so many shares. Overnight deleted, typed his own name. Pure crime. The brewery is now worth 100 million marks times 23, whether that's 12 million, plus dividends, about 20 million marks have damaged the state. That's what the state knows, everybody in charge. Let's get these brewers, let's sell it, it's 60,000 jobs. It's all SDP controls. I've got a series of examples where most of the crimes are all SDP, and they're catching this poor poor thing that... they're smuggling... I'm not for crime, I'm not for this either, but we, however, are up to us MPs, we have to create an environment. We can't say that all employers are guilty. You got half of them, they got into a situation because it's an unfavourable environment. The state has not passed laws, it's ugly borders, it's blooming, it's bribery, it's corrupting. Unfortunately, the judiciary hasn't adapted to the market conditions, all of these are elements, we don't have a single economic space. So, the elements that employers have come to a difficult situation. And I'm for the inspection to do its job and to punish and to do it all, but I'm not like this to get in a very cheap, political way some, or some for daily use and to say, Malten, we're all the only honest, and all the thieves. But on the contrary, wherever the biggest crime is, believe me, there's the SDP. I've made sure of that 100 times, and I have all the evidence. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10636	Sir, replica, Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10637	I would ask Mr. Bahtić to support our proposal because we're looking for a black list right now, and if that's what he says, I'll thank him for finally clearing up in the SDP with criminals. So, please, don't criticize the SDP here, we're talking about a black list of employers, individuals, not SDP. So, please, say blacklist, I'm against the blacklist, but I'm after Bahtic's for the blacklist because I'd like us to definitely know in the SDP who has and enjoys that, I'd say, illegal rights.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10638	Thank you. Is it a replica? Correction of the wrong quote, please. Mr. Okolić, do you have a replica? Now, there are two, three, reported before you. Hold on a second. Wrong quote, Bećirović. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10639	I don't know if Mr. Bahtić can't listen and hear what's being said or deliberately distorts the fact, but at the very least it doesn't matter. No Niko here has talked about honest employers and they have nothing to do with this blacklist and I don't know what the problem is to check out no matter what employers belong to the party. That's not on the agenda at all today. Today, there is a principled question on the agenda on which we should take our stand or not take our stand as Parliament. Second, he also said that this government has promised 150,000 new workers. If he'd listened to my exposure, he wouldn't have heard it that way either. I said it was promised that formal employment would increase by 150,000 workers. That's two different things. And in the end, on all the slanders and accusations that Mr. Bahtić is using very often, and it is not worth it, whether, much to discuss, given that Mr. Bahtić gave up his parent party for BiH in Krajina, and how then he only had good relations with the SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10640	Bahtić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10641	Replica. I will ask these facts of my own, the next parliamentary question, to the SIP and the State Prosecutor's Office for fraud and theft of shares of the Žitoprerade. Thank Bog, my party is 100 times in control.....in independent and you'll never realize these..., and all these events in the Unco-San canton are, in fact, to cover up a huge robbery, the Pivara, the grain processing. A man from Austria should come and buy a grain to give those shares to the brewers. Well, it won't work. That's why you destroyed... you destroyed this Tenotek now. All the game is run and all the line kit, however, we didn't go, we didn't mention the tax escorts(?) Turn 'em around a little bit. I'm up for it, I'm up for it, I've had the most trouble with the SDA and my folks when I was fighting for those Uno-San forest, for this crime, and so it's all tied up from the top, so... However, you were the only one who insisted here thanks to your president who called and you all voted there for smuggling, and I have the papers set out (weakly heard), I also informed the State Prosecutor's Office and OHR and I will bring it and I will ask... That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10642	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Ivanković. Correction of the wrong quote. As far as I'm concerned, you can go all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10643	I must tell Mr. Bahtić that the SDP is not afraid of any checks unlike him. Another thing, too, I suggest to Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10644	Look, if you want to take a break so we can... 63
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10645	And that's what I say very responsibly, and I suggest we move first, here, from the SDP. And the third thing, I suggest to Mr. Bahtić, except he can criticise and in a cheap way attack here without any arguments, I suggest that he make an effort to prepare some conclusion and propose it, to act constructively, not to offer anything, and to criticise what is offered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10646	Replica, wrong quote, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10647	Criticizing power, there was a set of customs inspections, can be checked both customs and tax and financial at the brewery. The Alliance was in power, people ran away with their heads no matter what. Believe me, when it was the Alliance, it could be checked both with the director and the financial and tax. I had to leave the Bihaćka brewery under the SDP rule of the Alliance.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10648	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerko Ivanković, we are going back to discussions. We have registered, Jerko Ivanković, Živković, Novaković and Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10649	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. Mr. Bećirović has opened a very important topic for our society but it is very important that we set the right path so that we can possibly do it in a quality way and solve it. We personally and the People's Party work to improve do not support any illegal work, but if there is, responsibility is very important to establish on the right side. I don't think that a black list of employers should be made but should work on a black list of MPs who have passed such regulations, which, apparently, cannot be applied without their excessive violation. We also have to take care not to protect workers from themselves, because employers don't hire black workers, but workers want to work in black because the state takes over 1/3 of the salary they make. The labour market is completely free and no one in BiH today can be forced to work on black but it is explicitly his good will. In fact, unfortunately, she forced herself to survive or to feed her family because there is no other way. The state of unemployment, here, was spoken by colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10650	I apologize, we've opened the debate as if we're a competent institution to deal with employment. We have an initiative that needs to be made known. If and I think it's quite OK, if we intend to try to open that area and bring the state into the field of employment, give it the authority, I am absolutely in favour of opening a thematic session, to ask the Council of Ministers, etc. But on the occasion of an initiative, one conclusion, we have now 64, practically, opened a debate on such an important topic for which the Assembly does not have, at this point, jurisdiction, no jurisdiction. But, here, here you go, uh, no problem, Mr. Bećirević is doing it all in some way lifting up trying to, but, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10651	Here, I'll try to say in a few more words what I think is most important.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10652	Are we going to support this conclusion or not? So when we get the material to discuss it then. Here you go, Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10653	We have a situation where we have a higher labour tax than the tax on cigarettes in BiH. So the salary tax that a man earns is 68%, and the total taxes on these cigarettes are smaller than that. I don't think that's a good approach. Because if a man wants to poison himself, we cut his taxes and say, "Trust, if he wants to work, we say to him, "Ee, slowly, now more than a third of the states take away from you if there is anything left." I suggest, if we support this conclusion, I ask that it be complemented that a list of ministers and MPs who have passed the regulations that cause work on black and I suggest more
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10654	It's... a red list, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10655	And I would suggest a conclusion that might lead to a solution to this problem in a very good way, which is to oblige the Council of Ministers to ask entity governments and parliaments for the burden of wages in production to be abolished entirely. And that funds that are now receiving funds from such salaries are provided to them from increasing and introducing new taxes on luxury excise goods in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10656	Thank you, Mr. Ivanković. We have Mr. Živković's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10657	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is that the proposed topic is not within the scope of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and, therefore, the conclusion proposed by the honourable MEP Bećirović is, in my opinion, too high. The fact is that this initiative, those who think it should be launched, should be launched in the Federal Parliament, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska or the cantonal and municipal congregations. 65 Accordingly, I asked myself, what was happening in the RS in the meantime, and I received some data, that the RS, by amending the Labour Act, sanctioned employers in Article 14 who said: “Yes, when the labour inspector, when in carrying out inspection supervision, determines that the employer committed a violation of Article 2, point (v) of this article, will impose a ban on the work.” Therefore, the black list of employers who operate are in direct conflict with this law, because such employers must be banned from working, not on the list. That the ministry, in co-operation with the Employment Service, is making constant checks on whether someone who is offered the same job is rejected and why. And it is deleted from the records, so about 2,000 people were removed from the lists and records because they were established to work, and they were on the records. To hold permanent meetings with the Inspectorate and, note, the RS inspectorate was pulled from the ministries and that it was a special body with the RS government. So he's autonomous in his work and so far he's done a lot of work, so soon, he's going to publish an analysis of the results achieved so far on this subject and, if they're interested MPs, we can ask the RS government to provide them with that analysis. From all of this, as I said, I think this conclusion is excessive and that perhaps it could be a meaningful conclusion that praises the current work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent work on black, and that it calls on the Government of the Federation of BiH to make additional efforts to amend the laws that treat this matter, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10658	Mr. Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović. Was it you, Mr. Križanović, a discussion or was it a replica? Something, something! I don't mean, just say the word, you're only applying now, Križanović. Here you go, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10659	I must say I disagree with Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10660	A little attention, Mr. Novaković, please, a little attention and patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10661	Because this conclusion, among other things, is that we start this initiative at the state level, and the conclusion clearly states that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10662	We'll get to the bottom of this for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10663	That he's being realized in co-operation with the entity governments. There is no constitutional obstacle to the realization of this conclusion. However, I must say, on this point, it is true that the Alliance of the RS, in co-operation with labour inspectors, launched 66 actions in early 2006 titled "Stop working on black". Based on the union's knowledge and anonymous tip-offs, the inspectors went into the field and controlled companies. And according to the available data, union representatives and inspectors claim there were certain results. However, no one knows and no record of how many workers are registered and still no one has data that companies have been punished. Indeed, I propose that we adopt this conclusion today and in collaboration with the entity governments launch a public campaign in the interest of all workers in the territory of the whole of BiH and, indeed, I do not think that the Constitution is too much for us to adopt this conclusion today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10664	Mr. Novaković, Okolić and Mr. Križanović. Is there anyone else that needs to discuss? Here, Mr. Zorić. Is there more? No, thank you. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10665	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I belong to those MPs who supported the SDP Club's initiative not to discuss it at the last session on this conclusion, i.e. this initiative, but at today's session. Convinced that today we're going to get some serious material based on which we can make serious conclusions. And that's the key reason why I supported this initiative. I have to realize that the initiative is very good, and that the conclusion that we've got is very bad. And that's the result of waiting from the previous session to today. Namely, this conclusion we could have had and this material we could have gotten in the previous session, I suppose, and not wait, then, but end it at that session. So that I could make my judgment completely clear about this conclusion, not this problem, because the problem is much broader, I would like the motionary to explain to me what the term "informal economy" means in this context? It means I can interpret it further. I also don't understand, in a sentence saying that the BiH Council of Ministers, in co-operation with entity governments, will launch a public campaign against the exploitation of black workers. And from which I conclude that the exploitation of workers, if not on the black, is quite legal and legal. So it would be good, so let's see if the proposer meant it the way I'm interpreting it or maybe he meant it differently, and he didn't put it the right way. I also don't understand what part of the sentence that says "or operate in other unauthorized ways" means, and then, below, "are not at peace with workers". Does the blacklist now refer to this first, or to this second? Whether these other ways of doing business involve not only black employment but also all other illicit ways of doing business, as can be impressed, or this is explained in this sentence: "not to settle obligations to workers". Which makes this part of the sentence superfluous, this previous, at least, least, or, least of all, unspeakable. So, it would be good, I expected to see today in the conclusion that it says "starts a public campaign" that we will have today, what does this public campaign mean? What shape does the promoter think this 67 public campaign is going through? How much does that money cost and did we predict these funds in the budget or if we are not going to finance it? So, a few serious questions or serious consequences behind it draws a conclusion and after the clarifications that I'm going to get, I hope that the Proposer has all of this, uh, which is my dilemma and dilemma of some of the colleagues here, so it's designed and it would be good for him to bring it to us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10666	It's Okolić Mirko.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10667	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs. I'll say it very briefly, because there's something I meant to say, said the predecessors, but here's what I'd look back on. The idea as an idea is good and should be supported, however, the conclusion should in some sense be changed given that it is the conclusion of this Parliament as bodies that are extremely high and respectable. So in this conclusion, there can't be any jargons that are, let's say, journalistic or folk, everyday, and more that will go on a public campaign. So so that people of the profession, of the language, etc., may object to us in fact, or something even worse, I suggest that this conclusion be transformed into many of these other sentences, and that it can be reached to this conclusion. Like, "on black," it's a term that doesn't exist in the law, it's a jargon term for journalists, for the people, etc., we have to, in accordance with the law, say that it's contrary to the Labour Act, etc., etc. "Employment of Workers", this one, too, could not, in my opinion, stand because the exploitation of workers is on our side found. If someone asked the worker if it was used, if the employer gave him half the money of what he should give through contributions to the state, he would surely say that it was not exploitation but that it was good for him, but in that case it was only a damaged culture, or state. So I support this conclusion as an idea, but in a text like this, I can't, uh, vote it, help it vote. Because this is what we need to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10668	Križanović. Let Zorić be prepared, we have a reported Hadžimitrović, I see here, you are not, well, well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10669	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will, too, very briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10670	Here you go, Mr. Križanović. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10671	So you can find here, uh, a lot of remarks on precision, formulations on certain expressions, etc. But what surprised me a little was not to accept, I think, the essence of the initiative. So it is known that in BiH we have one big, general problem. It's work on black. We can formulate him however you want. But he's entrenched in even economic, as it's called, terminology. The informal economy and the work on black have already become, let me say, words that respect that termology. You see, therefore, this is about one demonstration of general political or, as you will, the social attitude of this parliament according to a social phenomenon that is very dominant in BiH and dangerous for society. And that's the whole point of it. There is no capacity for this parliament to create, neither do I now, some teams, to allocate funds for, to deal with disproportionate work, etc. But it has its own executive, it has its own government, and it is said that in collaboration with entities, entity governments, it has made one wider social campaign to eradicate this evil. How it will now find interest and a pension fund and a union and I don't know which all, and even, watch out, employers, employers' association. I believe there's 90% in that association and in the chambers, etc. honest employers who are in the interest of getting involved, even to finance this. Why? Because in this way they gain their competitiveness in relation to people who illegally employ, uh, workers that represent, let me say, both political and social and economic problems etc. But, of course, they're even more competitive on the market because they're moving to a common level of business. So, I would ask you, so it's about, here, understanding the need to open up a campaign that will be socially useful, and whether or not we're going to be exhausting ourselves here on some formulations or not, uh, I don't think it's going to change the character and essence of this initiative more significantly. I think, here, Denis is here as a concrete proposer of this, that you can accept a change in some formulation, but let's keep the essence and essence of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10672	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. We still have Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go, Zorić. Here's Mr. Jovičić at the right time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10673	The first part of my debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10674	I don't, I don't have you registered, Mr. Jovičić, but here's the intervention. We'll respect it, we'll respect the intervention, Mr. Jovičić, I won't deny it. Here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10675	Since we are all short of time, I will consider the first, first part of my debate to be the exposure of my colleague, Novaković, so I fully agree with his presentation. And in one sentence, I will repeat that one good idea ended with a very bad suggestion of conclusion. It would be normal for me to be here, that is, if my colleague Bećirević, this one, suggested that a working group be created so that together with the Council of Ministers, we could fix or try to fix the laws, together with entity representatives in the task force. Because the problem of filling up social funds, the institution, did not end with all workers applying, except for workers who are on the budget applying to a minimumer. I did not see in BiH legislation, when I say BiH, I mean all the legislation from the level of BiH institutions to the lower classes. I saw that, I saw it in the Republic of Croatia back in '92. years, therefore, in the year both BiH and Croatia are recognised. Couldn't have a dealer working alone in a store or a boutique, alone on shift, without having a minimum wage. The class was set, which the employer must pay for, or I believe that there are chief accounts for large companies in BiH and that they receive a minimum. Of course, if no graduate economist, a graduate lawyer would have agreed to work for that. And I agree, on the other hand, my colleague Ivanković is right. Is that 68%, what's that percentage? So, this is a very broad topic and I'm afraid, if we spend it on this alone, and this goes public, then those doubts mentioned by colleague Novaković, is that allowed if the worker is registered, is it allowed to take advantage of it? Is it allowed to sell goods that entered BiH on black, and if a worker is registered to a minimumer and many, many topics, this is really a specific topic and I think, if he's going to put all this into order, here's what I've been doing for a minute and a half, two, mentioning that it really needs a lot more work. Because he also had a colleague named Denis Bećirević time to prepare for a little more quality of what we supported him for at the last session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10676	What does that mean, Jozo? Here you go, replica, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10677	So, I support what my colleagues are saying. But this is about spreading one topic. It's a whole other story about how much, what our working legislation is, etc. Uh, we can fit in a lot of questions about how high quality and inspection services are, etc. This is about one segment, no ambition to solve everything now, all of these, these problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10678	I'd love to, I'd love to, just a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10679	So, about one particular problem of working on black. Niko one bothers anyone to go into these other areas, to fix it. But just because we didn't hit some wider ground, there was a simple initiative here, just to narrow down to, on the subject. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10680	Replica, Mr. Novaković. Who's the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10681	Well, me, the replica on the replica, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10682	On the line.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10683	Well, you see, this is the second time, it seems to me, that colleague Križanović says we don't need to spread and that here's the idea just to, uh, take a position. Look, if the proposer needs a political position that we are against the work of the opposite law, so that's a very different thing to say. If it's just a matter of political opinion. Well, I guess all the political parties and all of us here have such a political attitude and don't need to check it this way. Or if he appreciates it, the pronoun that needs to be checked this way, then he should have done so, to check that attitude. Look, I don't know why they're angry with their colleagues if we're looking for an explanation. Here, I do not understand what it means to “work in other illicit ways. ” Is that just about employment or tax evasion? Are we just making that blacklist or making some more blacklists? So, I was just looking for an explanation, I don't see why my colleagues are mad at it. Secondly, this one, if it was to be achieved, I repeat, just expressing a political attitude, so that we didn't write it in two sentences. That this home expresses a clear political position that it is against employment, I don't know, let me say, contrary to the laws, etc., etc. Okay. Here it is, we have this political attitude and we wouldn't have a debate here at all today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10684	Mr. Bešlagić. Replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10685	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10686	A very interesting debate today I can tell you. Here you go, Mr. Bašlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10687	Look, when a man is sick, he goes to the doctor's general practice, he can be treated differently here, he comes home and says, "Wife, give me some aspirin, then a tube, then a thermophor, then a tea, but there's no help." I think this proposal has just been, that our general practitioner, and that means, let's say, the Council of Ministers with the governments of entities, finds in which area this patient has been denied. Maybe it's in two laws and everything's fine. Maybe it's in 25 laws, so everything's fine. And it may not be in either, but in inspections, that they are not doing their job, and then Republika Srpska, since it has defined all this, will submit a very short report. He may find that Mr. Lijanović is right and that, in fact, we should look for the culprit and the causes in some other places. So I'm looking for this diagnosis, just the ones in charge of it, that means the Council of Ministers with the governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federation, but also the cantonal governments and the Brcko district, we don't mention it here. So it's realized that in our, I don't know, ten laws, five laws, it doesn't satisfy what we're talking about right now and that they allow this work to happen. Therefore, we do not ask today to discuss in all details, nor can it be debated, nor should it be debated. But the position of governments to do something about it, I think it's the task of this House. If they haven't already done it, who has done it, every honor to him, who hasn't done it, let him take it into his own hands, so yes, here in Parliament we come out with the data and say: we need to change the laws of that, that, that, that, here you go, gentlemen, do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10688	Who's the replica, Mr. Bešlagić?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10689	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10690	Whom, I mean, everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10691	To everyone who's been discussing, we need to get into the details.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10692	Yeah, yeah, when he comes in. Mr. Jovičić. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10693	Mr. Chairman, for a wonderful miracle, very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10694	May I have your attention, Mr. Jovičić would like to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10695	Very short, very short. So Mr. Bećirović's idea is excellent. And if you're asked to make a black list of employers, then that list doesn't mean anything unless there's a blackest list of corrupt inspection bodies. Of course, I don't mean everything in general. Because it's possible for an inspector to come to the firm and see there that a man with a high level of expertise has 220 marks of salary and, of course, does not take any sanctions. So there's no employment on black without the support of corrupt inspection bodies. I'll say it freely in public, without thieves that are easy to determine. See how some inspectors work in these institutions live. They're the only ones richer than us politicians, and they're always yelling at us. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10696	And we're the richest.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10697	Well, you know, let's say, here, we raise our ratings. Because it's always a cry for us to have everything. And look what they have. If you have an inspector in the neighborhood, just look at what kind of property he's got and what he's got. So, Mr. Bećirović, your idea is remarkable, and it will be supported by the people, but as far as the basic question is concerned: who will realize this when this is a chain circuit that no one can discuss. When there are countless others who participate in this whole story. I said, your black list is good, but the blackest list has to be the inspection bodies that let that happen. That's the point, that's why this parliament doesn't have that jurisdiction, but here, we're going to give the idea of moving towards clearing up. Who needs to do everything now? Well, Mr. Bećirović, you're in charge of the Council of Ministers, so look at those three I commended, now they're gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10698	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10699	There's no leaving them. If I'd known he was going to leave, I wouldn't have said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10700	Okay, thank you very much. Here, I'm in the middle of it. Well, Mr. Bećirović, of course, I'll give you my word, of course, I'll give you my word. But I've given you three words so far, and I have to tell you, all your argument is slowly going on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10701	What did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10702	In the opposite direction, to support your conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10703	Well, if you think so, a few MPs called, here, to give clarifications, well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10704	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10705	I just want to say at the end of this debate that, regardless of the discussion, and there have been good discussions today, uh, that it's very useful for me, that we started talking about this today. 73 For more than a year we have been dealing with certain issues that have nothing to do with the lives of the citizens and the people of this country and the fact that we have begun to talk about life's problems is good. The other thing I'm saying is that the goal of this conclusion is, not to solve it, I said in my opening statement, not to immediately resolve this difficult issue, but to encourage the responsible authorities to move towards solving this problem. Of course, we expect the government, that of all governments in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10706	Please, a little patience, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10707	If we adopt in Parliament today to specify this conclusion. Also, someone said, he had a messenger of time to prepare. More MPs who raised this question will be the worst. Well, I guess they've had time for all these 10 years, not to say more responsible both in governments and in ministries, to start and solve this issue. And as some MPs discussed today, it turns out that the biggest problem is that Denis Bećirović raised the issue in Parliament, and it's not a problem that we have that question, that we have people who are exploiting themselves on the ground, that we have 240 thousand registered, is it, black workers or is so estimated to be. I guess that's the problem, and I guess someone should've done it before today's session and started the issue. And if all the energy needs to be directed, then you need to point in that direction, not just offer nothing, but criticise the conclusions that others are offering.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10708	Thank you very much. Here, I'm closing the debate, please take your seats, we'll approach the vote, we'll approach the vote. Please, sit in your seats. Prepare to vote. Vote now. We're voting on a conclusion. With 14 votes for, 3 against, 12 abstentions, no entity majority. The conclusion didn't get the required majority. The alignment has no consent. We are voting immediately, therefore, only those who are against, who are against the conclusion. So vote now, those who are against the conclusion. So 13 votes against, 0 abstentions, RS MPs, 11. The conclusion didn't get the necessary entity majority. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda. It is about the appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Commission for the Selection of the Texts of the BiH Anthem, at consultations, on the extended College, concerning possible candidates, we have established a list of candidates. Of course, which does not exclude, I apologize, Mr Lijanović is also, in this debate, 74 in every debate, I get two, three conclusions, etc., please wait carefully, to listen carefully. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović. Thank you very much. You're very kind. So I'm going back to point thirteen. Ad. 13. The appointment of three members of the House of Representatives for the Commission for the selection of the text of the anthem. At the Enlarged College, we ran three candidates, so, Huskić, Zorić and Mr. Jovičić and Mr. Jovičić, and these are the suggestions that I officially have here. Here you go, Mr. Zorić. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10711	Well, you see, of course, I have nothing against these people who are proposed here, but I just want to say two, three sentences. In fact, several processes are under way when it comes to the BiH anthem today. One process is that some hymns in all ways are making it impossible to exist, such as the situation with the Anthem of Republika Srpska and the other, means, another endeavor to be in full capacity again, so to say, under the alleged signs, of course, under the alleged signs, so to adopt this text part of BiH's anthem. We did not vote for this conclusion either, I must say, the club did not vote for this conclusion either, when the House of Representatives brought it and for these reasons we consider it necessary first of all to resolve this process after the resolution of the issue of the fate of Republika Srpska's anthem. And that's why we won't support it, not for the name's sake, but for these reasons, this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10712	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10713	I must conclude that it is truly regrettable that an MP in the state parliament in every way possible, as Mr Novaković of the SDS does, obstructs everything that smells like the state of BiH. It is truly sad for both this country and all its peoples and this Parliament. And obstruct and question the anthem of a country that has been in question for 10 years, whether, from Dejton to here, there is no state, for more than 10 years is, at the very least, incorrect towards this state, this parliament, in which Mr Novaković sits.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10714	Thank you very much. Please, let's get back to the subject. We have proposed three candidates for the BiH Chamber of Texts. Please prepare yourselves. Here, let me repeat the candidates: Mr Huskić Adem, Jovičić and Zorić, Raguž, pardon, Martin Raguž. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. A little patience, please. So, with 28 votes to, 3 against, 2 abstentions, enough entity majority. I agree that we have selected three members from the House of Representatives in the Commission for the Selection of the Texts of the Anthem, which are Mr Huskić Adem, Jovičić i Zorić. Thank you very much, we're moving on, Raguž, I'm really sorry, I'm really sorry. It's like Zorić's always in everything, uh, commissions and stuff. All right, Mr. Raguž. So we move to the next item of the agenda, Ad.14. Appointment of members in committees and delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly We have these replacements, i.e. appointments of members in the House's committees instead of Edin Mušić and Vahid Heće. Let us, therefore, first propose that instead of Salke Sokolović, instead of Edin Mušić, Salko Sokolović be elected to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Commission for Finance and Budget. Please prepare and vote on this proposal. Vote now. With 29 votes for, without prejudice, four abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that Mr. Salko Sokolović was elected instead of Edin Mušić at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Commission for Finance and Budget. We have a proposal to replace Vahid Heće in committees: the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Joint Commission for Defence and Security and Delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union. So Vahid Hećo was a member of all these commissions and delegations. Adem Huskić is proposed instead. Please prepare to vote. 76 Vote now. With 30 votes for, without prejudice, three abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that instead of Vahid Heće, Adem Huskić was elected to the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, the Finance Commission and the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Joint Commission for Defence of Security, as well as to a member of the Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Interparliamentary Union. We are going to the next replacement, so the proposal is to choose Velimir Jukić instead of Slavko Matić's membership in the Commission for Transport and Communications, also Velimir Jukić. Please be prepared to vote. Vote now. So, with 30 votes for, without prejudice, four abstentions, enough entity majority. I agree that we have made a decision to elect Velimir Jukić in the Constitutional Legal Commission, instead of the representative Slavko Matić, and to choose Slavko Matić in the Transport and Communications Committee instead of the representative Velimir Jukić. Thank you, thank you very much. And we have a proposal to elect Vinko Zorić to the Commission for the Interparliamentary Union because there is one place, therefore, in the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly in the Interparliamentary Union proposed Vinko Zorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 31 votes for, without prejudice, two abstentions. I find that Mr Vinko Zorić has been elected to the Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Interparliamentary Union, in this way we have carried out these necessary replacements and fills. Moving to point 15, giving consent. Ad. 15. Giving consent to ratification of the agreement as proposed in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10717	You see, I suggest we plead individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10718	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10719	These agreements. I mean, I think we can have a debate, so, about everyone, but we're pleading individually. And since I've taken my word for it, I'm going to say what I'm proposing right now. Namely, the interim free trade agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the mission of the United Nations' temporary apparition in Kosovo is unacceptable for the SDS Club. Because, among other things, Article 32, indent 2, states: "In all cases, dispute settlement between the importer and the customs authorities of the importing country will be subject to legislation from the country mentioned." This prejudges Kosovo's solution, since, in this case, Kosovo is treated as a state. Thus, under the term “earth” means the term “state”.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10720	We can vote in particular on this agreement, and we can make a deal like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10721	Well, that's right, and for that reason, so I suggest we vote individually, and for this same reason, so we won't support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10722	Thank you. Please, are there any further discussions reported? So, are we going to make a statement, make a statement about how we're going to vote? What? Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10723	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10724	I'll take five minutes off. Five minutes break. [[PAUZA]] It's ringing. Was that it? We're continuing our work. Mr. Kalabić, come in. Just a little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we took a break for further consultations and we suggest that this point be postponed under g) The proposal for a temporary contract. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10727	Postpone the statement on her.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10728	Yes, yes, yes, we're pleading today in a package about the others.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-26-0.u10729	Thank you very much. Here, you heard the suggestion. Please prepare to vote on this proposal. Vote now. So, with 24 votes for, 1 versus, 1 abstentioned, enough entity majority. We have reached a conclusion to postpone the statement by point g) Giving consent to ratification, specifically, the Temporary Free Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the United Nations Mission of the Temporary Administration in Kosovo. And about the other agreements to plead in the package. So who's in favour of making these other agreements known in the package? Well, here, let's vote that too. Vote now. So, with 32 votes for, without prejudice, one abstention, enough entity majority. We've decided to vote in the ratification agreement package. I'll list the contracts after the vote. So, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. With 33 votes for, without prejudice, one abstention, enough entity majority. I agree that we have given consent to ratification, please, a little attention, so (a) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the adoption of persons whose stay is illegal, (b) an agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions and criminal matters, (c) an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the field of education, science and culture, Mr Džaferović, (d) an agreement on economic co-operation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, 79 (c) a Strategic Agreement on Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Office of the European Police, (f) an agreement on financing between BiH and the European Investment Bank – a project to restore of Electricity of Electricity II, h) the Council of the Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Slovenia on the readmissioning persons with the status of BiH Agreement with the Treaty and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty of BiH Agreement of BiH. This is how we exhausted the agenda of today's 8th session. I'm concluding the work of today's 8th session and reminding you of tomorrow's Plenary Session and requesting your presence. Thank you, and you will be informed of this, Mr. Džaferović. About May 23rd, May 23rd, and in June we'll have two again. May 23rd. Please, nice. You can see I'm ready to give you an answer anytime. Thank you. The session was completed at 14.20 hours.
