ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8974	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 4th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests, therefore, the chairman and members of the Presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the OHR, the OSCE, the EU, the Observer mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., have been invited as soon as possible. Of course, funds for public information. I would like to inform you that the College of this Parliament, chaired by the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić, has informed you that today he will not be able to attend the session for justified reasons, because of the official trip to Brussels, but has also informed us that he has given recommendations to all resolution ministers whose materials are possibly present today to attend this session. And I see that's what happened. I welcome and thank the ministers and deputies for their presence. So, in preparation for this session of the College of the House of Representatives held on 19 February, he agreed to a draft agenda that you received with the invitation to the session. In the meantime, we expanded, so to speak, conditions, procedural conditions, to extend the point of the 3rd proposed agenda. I hope you got this updated agenda on the bench. So point 3 under d) Proposal for a decision to suspend the term of office of the MP in the House of Representatives, Borjani Krišto, to confirm his appointment as president of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I'd like to remind you that most of the material for today's session has been obtained earlier. Today you received materials that were practically prepared and done during yesterday, some and this morning for holding sessions etc. Anyway, today you received a notice from the Election Commission on the assignment of office to Mr Jovan Todorović. A decision to appoint a deputy minister with the Commission's report to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on a Decision on the case, scope and type of concession for the purpose of building the Highway on Corridor Vc. Opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission on the agreements and contracts on the agenda, as well as Decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate, Mr Vrankić and Mrs Krišto. So, before we move on to the debate on the agenda that I was just talking about, we have to say one, this, to solve one previous issue, that is, to enable through the procedure full work of the new MP in the House of Representatives, Mr. Jovan 2 Todorović. To remind you, Dom made a decision last session on the termination of the term of office to Mr Nikola Špirić. The decision was submitted to the Electoral Commission with a request to assign the mandate to the next candidate. We have received notice from the Election Commission that the mandate was assigned to Mr Jovan Todorović, as the next qualified candidate from the Alliance of Independent Social Democrats. In order for Mr Todorović to assume full capacity for parliamentary rights and obligations, he should make a solemn statement. I urge Mr. Todorović to join in giving a solemn statement. If it's not hard, of course. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Todorović. So, I'll read, and you read after me. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8975	I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8976	Respecting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8977	Respecting the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8978	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8979	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8980	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8981	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8982	Thank you, Mr. Todorović. I congratulate you. So now we're going to discuss the proposed agenda. [[APLAuz]] I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. So it's about the agenda you got in your seats, right before the beginning of the session. Here you are. Mr. Rifat Dolić came forward to discuss it. Here you go, Mr. Dolić. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8983	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, this is in a certain way the first session of the House of Representatives, the first working session of the Parliamentary House in this assembly. In view of the activities expected by this House, in the adoption of a number of legislative regulations and conditions for BiH's accession or better said, the approximation of European and world integration, I expected us to get as much information as possible and what laws are contained in the parliamentary procedure in which the previous Council of Ministers put them, whether the new Council of Ministers and the laws are withdrawn from parliamentary procedure for revision or possible addition and others. Today, we have, among other things, four draft laws whose adoption is proposed by the Council of Ministers by emergency procedure and one law for first reading. I respect the priorities of passing these laws, but as an MP, I don't know whose fault I didn't get these laws to look into. Now I don't know if the old composition was getting those suggestions or not. So, as an MP, I'm really used to coming to the House of Representatives sessions. Today when it comes to these five laws, I am therefore not ready to argue. I must also draw attention to the fact that we all know that the High Representative, in the period 2002-2006, passed a total of 21 laws and decisions from the powers of the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly or more precisely, 3 decisions and 18 laws, which are in force, but are not confirmed by the Council of Ministers and Parliament. It is known that these laws and decisions cannot be changed even to the extent of the dots and the decimals, that they do not pass formally until they have passed the formal certification procedure by this home. I can't understand the rational reasons why this form has not been completed so far because I'm not sure that these laws and decisions are so high-quality that they are cemented without the possibility of alteration and supplementation. So, starting from this, I propose that the House declare itself on the proposal, that these 18 laws adopted by the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the period 2002-2006 be confirmed on the agenda of today's House. I think this is primarily necessary and rational right now, because some of these laws need to be revised and improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8984	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. I don't want to replicate, of course, but I'll give you some information. Of course, your finding that this is the first working session is a matter of experience. All sessions are working. This is the fourth, but here, uh, of course, it's your sighting. When it comes to today's agenda and all these things you've been talking about, we've had an extended college, and I've said in the introduction, where your club president was present, in the introduction that this agenda came about. So the materials for today's session have been delivered on several occasions and the notification of their status has also been delivered. When it comes to the laws adopted by the High Representative and the download procedure, I would like to inform you that they will be taken over by Parliament on 15 March, when we will hold, as agreed by the College of course, with the consent of the Expanded College, hold the 5th session of the House of Representatives, so I think this information that I have given you could be of course an argument that you still support this today's agenda. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8985	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During last session, a colleague named Lagumdžija suggested that the House adopt a conclusion tasking the Council of Ministers, with the full coordination of competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Foreign Psols, and with the assistance of the BiH Presidency, access to the creation, better said, of the Roadmap, how to help the return of so-called. Azir groups from Guantanamo and report within 3 months to this home. On that occasion, it is said that this item of the agenda or conclusion cannot be accepted, because it was not in line with, let me say, the general subject being discussed, so it is said that this conclusion will be found at the next session of this house. True, there was no consensus on the agenda at the Expansive College session by the chairman, and unfortunately there was no consensus on the agenda. Well, here's what I'm taking the opportunity to do according to what we concluded at the House in the last session, run this as a part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8986	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. This is all true, however, it should be this conclusion in writing that we provide MPs with this one, before we enter into the session of today's agenda. Here you go. Well, we'll do our best, Zlatko. Here's me speaking for the MPs, Mr. Lagumdžija. Maybe people don't remember what it's all about and we need to make sure they have a proposal for a conclusion ahead of them. Here you go. Mr. Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8987	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnesses these days, I must say, one unusual move by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, better said BiH Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8988	Is this about the agenda, Mr. Novaković? I can't tell, somehow.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8989	Yes, it is. It's about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8990	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8991	Having also considered this question, and in accordance with Article 143, paragraph 1. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives of the Serbian Democratic Party are launching an initiative for the reconstruction of the BiH Council of Ministers through the resolution of Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj. 5 An explanation, Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj informed the Serbian Foreign Ministry that the dual citizenship agreement ratified by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is not valid after the division of Serbia, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro. In this way, the minister has committed several brutal violations both of the Constitution and of the Law and of the practice itself. Namely, Article 5.3. The BiH Constitution, in its position under (a) says -- the presidency is responsible for the conduct of Bosnia and Herzegovina's foreign policy, and in its position d) the Presidency is responsible for negotiating the conclusion of international contracts with BiH, cancellation, and with the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly to ratify such contracts. I note that the BiH presidency concluded with its conclusion No 01-012-900-15/06 of 14 June 2006, that the Republic of Serbia continued the state continuity of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, which, in accordance with its competences, also accepted the validity of previously ratified agreements. It is apparent from the above that the minister, on the one hand, has overstepped his powers, on the other hand, has deceived the public and has opened up a space for potentially more complicated relations with the country with which Republika Srpska has the right to special ties. With his procedure, Minister Alkalaj did not respect the ministry's practice in these situations. Namely, he had to call the Ministry's College, after which he met the BiH presidency with a formed stance. The minister has not received the position of the sector for international, legal and consular affairs in this matter, and not to say that it would be logical for him to have met the chairman of the Council ofmin. In his announcements, the minister stressed for a reason the need for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship. To remind me, it is a law that the party's Club for BiH has sent to parliamentary procedure, which is not supported by an emergency procedure at the 84th session of the House of Representatives held on 29th.08. In this way, the minister tried to blackmail Parliament and that is the hardest of all. For this meeting here today, or for this session
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8992	Mr. Novaković, you've spent 3 minutes
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8993	It is quite clear that the Minister
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8994	You spent three minutes. You have a letter, share it with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8995	It is clear that the minister has ruled out party positions and guidelines, not attitudes to be represented by the foreign ministry for the whole of BiH. From the above,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8996	Mr. Novaković, 3 minutes have passed
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8997	Please just let me finish. It is clear from the above that the foreign minister's responsibility is clear, and I ask the Prime Minister's Council to launch an initiative to resolve the foreign minister in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law to open a space for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8998	Next time, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u8999	In accordance with Article 143, Section 2, Mr. Chairman, I will hand you this
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9000	Of course, you can hand it over, but I hope for these big words that you have an argument, so you accused a man of violating the Constitution and everything, and I have a feeling that you've been in some serious audit there at the Foreign Ministry. But here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9001	Of course, as an MP, I hope, Mr. Chairman, that I may have insight into what the Council of Ministers does
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9002	But I hope you're behind these words, of course, but these are big words that the violation of the Constitution and everything else, I hope you have an argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9003	Of course, I stand behind my big words.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9004	Of course. Please submit that initiative to include it in the agenda. Here you go. Any suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9005	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Transport and Connection Commission, which held the session yesterday, suggested that item 12, Consideration of the request by Plamenko Čustović, to resolve the duties of the members of the BiH Public Radio Television Service Management Board, be removed from the agenda, as he withdrew his request for resolution and the Commission proposed to the College to request a report from the Management Board to this Parliament, given that the Management Board is obliged and by law to submit a report on its work in the last year, and within that report, all those issues will come on the agenda which, here, led to this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9006	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Is there any further? Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9007	Just one business intervention. Please, given that counterpart Novaković has long explained this initiative, I still have to warn that the business conditions for 7 put this vote point, and there are no points on the agenda. There is a possibility in Article 143 to launch an initiative to replace the Council of Ministers, recalls or reconstruction. However, Article 145 said that before the start of the session, the vote of mistrust and reconstruction, the Council of Ministers could submit a report to the House in writing with its opinions and views. The report shall be delivered to the Members no later than 48 hours before the meeting is held. Therefore, in the light of the existence of a business obligation to respect this possibility, this item of the agenda cannot be considered or made known today. It can only be done when business assumptions are made, in order to possibly vote on the entry of a point into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9008	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. We haven't commented yet, we're waiting for the debate on the agenda to end. So go ahead. Any suggestions on the agenda? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument and we're going in a row. So we had Mr. Križanović's proposal to include at today's session of the agenda the proposal for a conclusion that, I hope, is divided by, so here we'll read it from the minutes, we'll read it from the minutes. It's not long, and I don't think it's a problem for us to read it. I ask the MPs to find him in the record. Just one second. So, the proposal is for the House to adopt a conclusion tasking the Council of Ministers with full coordination, this for a stenogram, that, with the full coordination of competent ministries, and above all the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the assistance of the BiH Presidency, it will approach the creation and realization of the Roadmap for the return of six women from Guantanamo, which will be submitted in 3 months' time for the report. I hope it's this one, clearly what it's all about. We had a further initiative by Mr. Novaković for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers in terms of Mr. Sven Alkalaj's shift and we had, behold, I thank Mr. Genjac, here, the College stands at the point of view that we can't put this item on the agenda today. Of course, after the procedure, she will be on the agenda of the next session. And, we have a third, little patience, Mr. Novaković, we have a third one, an initiative or a proposal from Mr. Dokić, as an MP, of course, who has information from the Transport and Communications Commission session, that the point related to Mr. Plamenko Čustović's request for discharge of the duties of members of the Management Board of the Public Radio and Television Service is removed from today's session with that explanation given. Of course, I remind and repeat, we also have a written request from Mr. Čustović to withdraw today's resignation, which in some ways facilitates our work. Here you go, Mr. Novaković, are you, Mr. Novaković, asking for your word?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9009	Mr. Chairman, I, I guess, didn't ask to put this on, I know the Rules of Procedure well. So, I've just launched an initiative that, of course, business will continue
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9010	Of course, it's clear. Let the world know what this is about. Of course. Thank you. So we approach the statement on the proposed agenda points. So let's take it in a row. 8 Mr. Križanović's proposal regarding the conclusion I just read, who's in favour? Vote now. With 21 votes for and entity majority in the Federation 18 Parliament and an insufficient entity majority in RS 3. This proposal did not receive entity support, which means it is going to a co-ordination with the College. I hope I'm right, this one said, right now, is it Mr. Lagumdžija? Unfortunately, we don't have the consent of Mr. Lagumdžija. We move on, we don't, we go to the second round of voting. Hold on, Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9011	Let me wait for the man to have your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9012	So wait for the College, I'm asking you both to wait for the College to do the job. So we did by procedure what we owe the Rules of Procedure to do. We tried to get along, we tried to get along, we didn't agree, and I informed the House of Representatives that we didn't agree. By procedure, when there is no consent, it goes to the second round of voting. And now we're going to go to the second round of voting. Here, it's not a problem, it's not a problem at all. So now we're voting who's against it. So please prepare to vote. So, who is against the conclusion of the proposal to include the conclusion in Mr Križanović's agenda, so who's against it? So, those who are in favor, please, forgive me, here, now, now, Šefik. You went through it, good, good. So, two MPs from the Federation of BiH, from the Federation and 4 against voted against, so this conclusion comes to the agenda. I find that the conclusion proposed by Mr. Križanović enters the agenda. Let's go, so of course, you can get in three copies of the listing. Let's move on. We have a proposal from Mr Dokić to remove item 12 from today's session of the agenda. Consideration of Mr. Plamenko Ćustović's request for the discharge of the members of the Management Board with this explanation, which was given and of course certain actions to be taken by the College or the Commission. Vote now. So with 33 votes for, a sufficient entity majority, a proposal has been adopted to take point 12 off the agenda. So, to conclude today's agenda, i.e. the agenda of the 4th session of the House of Representatives, compared to the proposal you received, two amendments were included, so the conclusion proposed by Mr Križanović regarding the obligations of the Bureau, the Council of Ministers and the relevant ministries for the group, the group delivered, in 9 Gvantanam and also the proposal, the initiative, Mr Dokić, was adopted to remove the point 12. Here, if you will allow me, the minutes for, or stenograms, to quickly read the final agenda, of course, you will allow me to classify the proposal at the end of today's session of the agenda. So let’s do it in a row: 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a decision on the termination of the term of office of MPs, MP at the House of Representatives, so under: (a) Dragan Vrankić, to confirm the appointment of Minister of Finance and Treasury and Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH, (b) Borjani Krišto, to confirm the appointment of President of the Federation of BiH 4. Confirmation of appointment: (a) Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, (b) Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, (c) Deputy Minister of Defence for Policy and Planning, 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers' Law on Emergency Procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a framework law on pre-school education and emergency education, in accordance with Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Agency pursuant to an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on a Decision on the case, scope and type of concession for the purpose of building the Highway on Corridor Vc, 10. Proposed law on violations (first reading), eleven, so we've downloaded eleven is reviewing, no pardon, eleven we haven't downloaded 11. The appointment of one member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the ranks of the Croatian people and one member from the ranks of others (a list of candidates identified by the Commission for Elections and Appoints) Twelve, the point of twelve we took off and twelve becomes the former point of thirteen which reads: 12. The agreement between the Ministry of Security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Austria on police co-operation, b) the Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon, c) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federal Government of Austria on the reading of persons who have an illegal stay, 10 d) the Agreement on the Development Credit (Restructation of Education) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development, e) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Slovakia on the readmission of persons, f) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Republic of Slovenia on the fight against crime, and in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking of drug trafficking and organised crime, g) the Agreement on the readmission of land between the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the arapski of Džamahirija, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of And last, then, point fourteen, Ad.14. Proposal for a conclusion - It is up to the Council of Ministers to, with the full coordination of the relevant ministries, primarily the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the assistance of the BiH Presidency, approach the creation and realization of the Roadmap for the return of BH six from Guantanamo, which will be submitted in three months' time. So this is how we've established the agenda and I suggest we start with its realization. So point one is Ad. 1. Record of the 3rd session of the House of Representatives You received a record, with a call, with a call. I'm opening a debate. Or do I ask if there are any objections to the record? If there isn't, may we make a statement, I apologize. Mr. Izetbegović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9014	Yeah, yeah, on the record. Uh, first of all, I'm moving, good morning to all present. I was in the debate last time, in the context of appointments, confirmation of the appointment of the Vice-President of the Prime Minister, etc. He asked that this home be introduced to the Council of Ministers' work programme for this year so that we could adopt a report on the work of, uh, the Council of Ministers at the end of the year. Well, here's what I'm saying today because it didn't go into the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9015	Any agenda, Mr. Izetbegović?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9016	That was at point 3 of the confirmation of the appointment. So it was only realized that I was involved in the debate. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9017	Yes, yes, so it was left out in point 3 to establish that you were involved in the debate and that you were
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9018	It says I took part in the debate, but it doesn't stand what I asked for. I asked this House to get acquainted with the Council of Ministers' 2007 work programme. Here, that's what I'm looking for again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9019	You insist that it stands, of course, in the record. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Raguž and Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9020	I thank you, Mr. President. On page 5, where the minutes refer to the debate which was on the confirmation of the commission, so when it comes to constitutional and legal, in this third paragraph, where it is said: Zlatko Lagumdžija has specified the proposal - he submits an amendment to the proposal for the composition of the commission to which Jozo Križanović will be a member of the Constitutional Commission and is seeking Home's testimony about him, stressing that the SDP belongs. For the sake of precision, it should be said that he asked that Jozo Križanović be included in the Constitutional and Legal Committee membership instead of Martin Raguž. I'd like to make a record of that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9021	Thank you, Mr. Raguž. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9022	I appreciate what Mr. Raguž said. I didn't mean to, uh, report to you, with what I think is really supposed to be like this, but since it's a delicate matter, it's practically a session of Parliament that needs to be some kind of rapper for what we're going to evaluate afterwards, depending on what happened at that session. We appointed the Council of Ministers. They dropped the appropriate suggestions, the conclusions, and I think that if the question is this, the choice of this committee should be, the correctness of it, to say that it is me, to leave this part standing here, but after that, so as I recall it, Mr. Raguž and our first proposal would be just that and that's the principle question, that you, uh, what you referred to, and then insisting on saying that we have to make a statement, then who needs to come out of it, then there was a precision. So, with all due respect, I suggest that Mr. Raguž stay what's standing here as well as add this. So that's one thing. Another thing, Mr. Belkić, is what Mr. Izetbegović was talking about. I think that there was enough reason, since there were more proposals on which Parliament was not stated, but there were proposals that were quite important, coming from individuals, from individuals or clubs, that it would be good to have such and similar ones, specifically I also supported this very proposal by Mr Izetbegović, believing that it was one of the capital things that we adopted here that there was no, conditionally speaking, no one, no vote against. Even the chairman said in his exposé that 13 behaves in accordance with the Constitution because, according to the Constitution of the previous four years, we did not have those reports, and this one, we are now said to act in accordance with the Constitution so that at the end of this year we can expect a report from the Council of Ministers. And it would be good, my proposal is, therefore, that instead of now these individual things, I ask that the sekretarijat prepare us for the next session to be prepared from the presentations that are, or the proposals that are here to be made, whether adopted or not, whether they are adopted, to enter the record, not as a discussion, but only the concrete contributions that have been here, the assessments that are considered capital. I'm saying this for that reason because we have a little disproportionate in the record. The entire record is practically dedicated to this, who said something about these commissions, and there is nothing about what was said about the Council of Ministers' work programme, the Council of Ministers itself, etc. My proposal, therefore, is that, instead of now, we put certain things in the record that this fine for the next session together with this new record, we adopt only enough to remain as precise a mark as possible in the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9023	Here, if you'll excuse me, everyone seems to be, all interventions are, uh, in place with what's an integral part of this log is and a transcript. However, when it comes to this intervention, specifically in terms of the word that, Mr Izetbegović, I think we can accept. Also, we, in addition to the minutes, can accept this proposal made by Mr Lagumdžija, because it is about the adoption or non-admission of the record. Therefore, interventions are accepted to supplement the minutes with all the proposed conclusions, initiatives, no matter how they, as compared to, to, to, to, the House of Representatives and it will be incorporated into this record. I, uh, declare. And as for Mr. Raguž's intervention, it stands, but it's also exactly what Mr. Lagumdžija was saying. The first was insisted on the proposal without an appropriate replacement, but here to be put, of course, because it is true, that the final proposal was to copy Mr. Jozo Križanović instead of Mr. Martin Raguž in the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Commission. So, with these comments, or with these suggestions, can we, or accepted comments, hope you accept them, and you have Mr. Halilović's remark, too? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9024	Mr. Chairman, when this record is reviewed, it is very clear that in the fourth item of the agenda, a brief discussion of the proposals and conclusions has been given. And under the third item of the agenda, when it comes to selecting the Council of Ministers, i.e. ministers and their deputies, that only the debaters are listed. My intervention refers, that is, to the proposal, to go in this direction that this record is not adopted today, but to be complemented, complemented, with those discussions that concerned the election of the Council of Ministers, because although the transcript is an integral part of this, this, this, this, this, this, the record, if it is an integral part, then give us a transcript. If it wasn't an integral part, then I would suggest that it be brought here, let, after three or four years, know who was saying what. So it doesn't turn out like we were just discussing, we gave support. I have not given my support to this Council of Ministers and today I claim that he will not be able to do anything important in the next four years, and this is what you can't see from the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9025	So your suggestion is not to adopt the record, as soon as possible. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9026	Yeah, mine, the record don't get adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9027	However, everyone has criteria of importance, what anyone has said, etc. It is certain that we should provide one uniform approach, uh, debates, etc. But, I repeat, the contribution to this record is a transcript, who wants to get it right away, he can get it right away and he'll see that every debate he has is fully recorded. But here, uh, Mr. Živković is also answering. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9028	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. In the last four years when we were in this House... We debated for a little bit for the simple reason that we decided to put in, so namely who took part in the debate, not decidently stating who the cancer was, right, as they said was an integral part of the record and the transcript so that each of the MPs had the right to come into the picture of it. [[You can't hear anything.]] However, I agree with the MPs that the debate on the appointment of the Council of Ministers was extremely important and that in this case we can make a concession, or exception, to say that from that point of the agenda, when we discussed it, that this transcript should be an integral part of this record in written form delivered to all MPs and the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers see and write what each of the MPs asked them to do and that, after that, this, it is therefore, to the Council of Ministers. So I'd like to ask you, as that conclusion, to adopt this record, which would put the requests of a gentleman, uh, Bakir to everyone else, in a common transcript. Here it means, yes, that's how we solve this problem with the zapisnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9029	Mr. Halilović. Is it a replica or.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9030	A very short replica, a replica. What the chairman, the vice-president, has said, I accept as a principle, but it should then apply to both the third and fourth points of the agenda. No, in the third item of the agenda, one principle is used, only names are listed, and discussions are given at the fourth point of the agenda. Therefore, I think you should fix the record and certainly give the transcript along with the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9031	I'm asking you to keep in mind some kind of economics. You know how much, uh, this all leads in the direction that basically with the record we deliver a transcript for every session. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9032	By supporting your efforts, Mr. Belkić, to make us more economical. For these very reasons, I have suggested that, instead of sending transcripts to everyone who is quite uneconomically, 15 of this, that only this part of the minutes concerning the election of the Council of Ministers that it properly complements itself with important discussions, and then each of us, in the end, can assume that this record, the transcript, should be on the website of the Parliamentary Assembly and that there should be no problem. Instead of sending us, I simply support your request for economics right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9033	Well, I've been trying to comment a little bit on the extra, uh, extra suggestions. I didn't comment on previous interventions, I even kind of supported them if you followed me. But here's to be economical, to try to adopt this record from last session, with the conclusion that adjustments are being made towards including interventions, proposals, initiatives related to all agenda points, and especially the agenda point when it comes to the appointment and confirmation of the Council of Ministers. So, it's the obligation of people who make records, sit here and listen and I, as chairman, will take care of it. So, can we make a statement about the record? Here you go, very economical.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9034	Don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9035	No, I won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9036	Please. 'Cause be careful, you're proposing now, you're practically proposing now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9037	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9038	Let's adopt this with a conclusion to supplement what we've been saying here and then make it practical.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9039	Well, Mr. Lagumdžija, we don't have to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9040	Wait a minute. I know we don't have to have you there enough you can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9041	Well, it's not about that, we don't need it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9042	But look now. Please, Mr. Belkić. If we accept that conclusion, then every next record doesn't have to be adopted at all, but then we can only assign you or professional services to that 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9043	Write down what you suggest, Mr. Lagumdžija. No problem. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9044	The proposal was very clear, Mr. Belkić. What you suggested was done and adopted the minutes at the next session, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9045	Okay. Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9046	There.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9047	We'll do it. And I'm asking you to plead with me on the record. Who's in favour of adopting the minutes from last session? With, of course, these conclusions, suggestions that we're going to make? Vote now. So, with a total of 28 votes for, 16 from the Federation, 12 from the RS, I find that we adopted the minutes from the 3rd session of the House of Representatives, of course, with these interventions and remarks that we will make. Moving to point 2. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers So, for the first time in this session, we have parliamentary questions. I hope there's no need to read you the Rules of Procedure. I hope you've had time and opportunity to see for yourself. If there's any dilemmas, we're here. But here, I am opening this process of asking parliamentary questions. The first Mr. Živković called, so we have Mr. Izetbegović, so we have Džaferović, Mrs. Alajbegović, Sadik Bahtić, Nanić, Kalabić, Dolić, Mitrović. Is there anyone else I can read to get into the record? Mr. Kadrić. Please, make up your mind now that I don't open later, I'm not adding. So, if there is no further, I conclude, therefore, a list of those reported for parliamentary matters. I'm asking you to follow the order I read. Here you go, Mr. Izetbegović, and Živković, I'm sorry, you're second.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9049	I thank you, Chairman. I would also like to thank the Council of Ministers for accompanying, in this number, the very important ones for the MPs, the topic and the agenda, the question and the answers. I hope that there will be even more presence in the future to be at the back of what we promised each other. 17 My question is addressed to the foreign ministry, Mr Sven Alkalaj, and it reads: After the arbitrary procedure of sending a letter to the Serbian Foreign Ministry, which informs them that the BiH-Serbia dual stateship agreement has ceased to apply, except that it has no legal basis in international and domestic legislation, it has caused a diplomatic incident and has additional burden on the two countries' interstate relations. In line with this question, is BiH Foreign Minister still behind the above-mentioned memo? Which of the competent institutions did the minister consult in this process? Does the minister intend to send a letter of apology to the Serbian Foreign Ministry? And under four, would the minister consider it a moral obligation for every official to resign after establishing a drastic abuse of office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9050	.. Secretariat of the House of Representatives. Thank you. Mr. Izetbegović. I'm asking you not to mind me, we're going in a row. You'll all get your turn. Here you go, Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9051	It is an initiative related to the International Court's ruling in The Hague and the situation created in BiH. The International Court of Justice's ruling of 26 February 2007 on BiH's S and CG suit for breach of the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide, once again found that a genocide was committed in Srebrenica in July of '95. Genocide perpetrators have been designated political and military authorities of the RS, while Serbia-Montenegro has been declared responsible for the prevention and impunity of genocide. This most severe form of violations of international law in Europe has not been carried out, i.e. a court confirmed from World Labour II to here, all the way to Srebrenica. The International Court of Justice's verdict must be carried out. It is the verdict of the world's most judicial instance, and the guarantee of the execution of the verdict is the UN's Council of Sirugnities. The implementation of this verdict is BiH's obligation to the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide. The aim of the verdict is multidimensional. First of all, he looks at himself in general and special prevention. Generally, genocide never happens again and again, and specially, those who committed it bear such consequences that they will realize that genocide can do no good to anyone. The aim of the verdict is certainly to undo the consequences as much as possible. There must be ways to compensate the victims as well as measures for their normal life in the future. A particularly important aspect of the implementation of the verdict is its impact on the overall Bosnian Herzegovina society, so that all in BiH have a proper relationship with the fact that genocide has been carried out and that it will never happen again. For this reason, we propose that the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers of BiH form a proposal for measures to address the consequences of genocide, which will specify exactly what and who in the BiH state must do within what time. 18 We propose that a thematic session of this or both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be organised afterwards at which the document would be adopted. I'm gonna hand this over, uh, to you. So, about what happened in BiH. There is one category of Bosnian-Herzegovina society that consists of between 1/4 and half of its population. These are the people who have suffered severe violence, to be expelled from their homes, to be killed or killed, to be raped, to be put into concentration camps, etc. We've never dealt with this problem thoroughly, to help these people. So it's done something, the international community, the BiH authorities, but it can be said that these people are never in the right way to help. So it's finally time to create a programme, to make measures, laws, to single out more significant funds in the budget and to help these people. That's our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9052	Thank you. You hand over the initiative to the Secretariat. Go ahead with the MPs' questions. Mr. Džaferović. Let's go this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9053	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the chairman, my question is in some way related to the question asked by Mr. Živković, a member of the College. But it has a slightly wider dimension and it reads: Is it, and if not, when will the BiH Presidency consider the state of bilateral agreements concluded between BiH and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro? The issue needs to be considered after Serbia-Montenegro's state union's disunity and the formation of two separate states. Bosnia and Herzegovina has concluded agreements with the National Community of Serbia-Montenegro or the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with a view to the interest of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our bodies participating in the conclusion and ratification of the contract must be declared the fate of those contracts. It does not matter if the contract remains in force only with Serbia, which has taken over the international, as far as we know, took over international rights and obligations after the disunity of the state community. This must also be manifested by the authorities of our country of BiH as other contracting parties because of their own interests. So this is a very important question. I suppose there are not many issues in question, that BiH, of course, should leave it in effect, at least as far as it and its interests are concerned, the mass of these contracts, bilateral contracts, but there are some issues such as among other things that are raised today by Mr Živković, where BiH has a special interest that the contract can only apply if it is valid in the entire territory of the divided state union of Serbia-Montenegro. We have the interest that this contract, therefore, applies in the territory of the internationally recognised countries of Montenegro, so I ask that the BiH Presidency, of course, ask the Presidency for this because it is leading foreign policy but all the bodies of our country will have to participate in the procedure of concluding and ratifying international contracts. So, it's except for the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and this Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9054	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Nanić. Let Mr. Kalabić prepare himself. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9055	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, I would like to ask a question, given the fact that we had a visit to the official delegation of the Republic of Slovenia in Bosnia and Herzegovina a few days ago. The citizens rightly asked certain questions and asked the authorities to answer these questions. I will list three citizens from different parts of BiH here. One is mostly on the citizens of the region of Sarajevo and the other two are from Krajina, and it concerns relations between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia. It is certainly to welcome in the media the signing of the Social Insurance Agreement between Slovenia and BiH. However, I am not convinced that the Council of Ministers has a sense of amounts and the extent of services left by BiH and its citizens inapplicable and inadmissible from paraphrasing the application of the Agreement. I only Pomenuće that the Agreement on the avoidance of Double Taxation with the Republic of Slovenia was initialled last May, ratified, and that BiH is still not in application, or its citizens, who use the elements of the agreement, millions of marks have been cancelled monthly for their assets, meaning for a certain amount of their pensions. I ask the Council of Ministers when the implementation of the BiH-Slovenia Agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and property will begin. Given that the agreement was meant to enter into force on January 1st, however, it still does not apply. There are different interpretations and incomplete and inconclusive answers from the competent institutions in the Council of Ministers and from even our embassy in Slovenia. I ask the second question, so when is the end of the procedure for the adoption of the Social Insurance Agreement and its application planned? And third, I demand that I be provided with information on the old foreign exchange savings of our citizens in the Ljubljana Bank, what is the status of the savings, and what will the Council of Ministers do or do to restore it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9056	Here you go, no, no, there's Kalabić, we're going in lines.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9057	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my question concerns Minister Tarik Sadović, whom I unfortunately do not see here, but that does not diminish the importance of the issue, and I expect the Honorable Minister, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to provide a written answer to this question. Lately, a large number of media reports have been dealing with the issue of a religious community in BiH, the Wahhabi issue, and given that certain information, citizens' reactions, institutions that are very contradictory, and respecting our obligation to take care of security in BiH during this pre-European period and to achieve human rights and freedoms and all that goes with it, I ask Minister Sadović to provide us with information from the Ministry of Security and in the light of BiH's international position on the action of this religious community, called Wehhabi. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9058	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Here you go. Remzija Kadrić, pa Sadik Bahtić, Azra Alajbegović, so let's go to the next row.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9059	Thank you. I will also ask a question about what Mr Izetbegović asked: When and what activities of the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency and this College of the House of Representatives intend to take on the ruling of the International Court of Justice in The Hague on 26 February this year, which confirmed that a genocide over the Bosniak people was committed in BiH? I also want to be answered in writing, and if there is only one short question, what do the Council of Ministers and OHR plan to do to stop the confiscation and abduction of private property in BiH such as the cases of East Gorazda, Kopači, Kotorsko, Doboj, Bijeljina, Bratunac and other places? And I want a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9060	Thank you, Mr. Kadrić. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9061	I thank the chairman. For the minister of traffic and communication, means the Ministry of Transport and Communication. What are you planning on doing on the road connection of Unsko-Sanski Canton, Bihaća with corridor Vc? In public, it is said that other quality connections, roads to Vc corridor, such as the fast road Tuzla-Osje, Banja Luka-Bosanska Gradiška-Okučani, are planned, and there is no mention of Bihać and USK. Tell me what's wrong with Bihać, will the Krajisniks be the only ones who will be cut off from the centre of BiH and Sarajevo and be a blind hose to the state? Another question for the Department of Justice, for the minister of justice. Will you, under the applicable Criminal Law, run anything against Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and others related to the affair at the Faculty of Economics in Sarajevo, where Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and others illegally received grants, thereby damaging the state for significant budgets? Will Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and the others return the budget money they illegally received, and then Dr. Lagumdžija spent money on buying an apartment on Alipashin, will there be a process where the confiscation of illegally acquired property will take place? It is also known that Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija illegally obtained 78 000 and 750 KM grants, did not report to the IRS as an additional income, and that the Criminal Law of the Federation of BiH, Article 276, made it clear that the criminal act is also considered to be a false tax application, as well as other false data, whose application is required under tax legislation. And third, for the finance minister, are you planning to make a bill at the beginning of your term on salaries for all budget users and clients, elected officials, officials, BiH-level tenants? Due to the absence of the wage law, drastic differences in the level of income among individual budget users are evident so that, for example, the directors of some state agencies have a 2-3-fold salary higher than the State Minister. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9062	Thank you. Mrs Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9063	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, using the right, the parliamentary right to launch the initiative, I would like to launch two initiatives. The first initiative concerns the full regulation of higher education. As you know, at a session in 15.02, the House of Representatives will likely consider the Law on Higher Education, and in this context, I launch an initiative for other legal solutions such as the Law on State Universitys, then to adopt and adopt a strategy of higher education, science, art and technology. Then, to initiate the procedure for institutionalising the State Agency for Higher Education Accreditation and to make this home a decision on the development of a university network, so that I do not now explain the reasons related to certain problems and problems of abandoning this legislative legislation and this situation that occurred with the withdrawal of certain diplomas at universities in BiH. The second initiative, I am also moving towards the Council of Ministers, which is for budget planning in the budget for 2007, with the reason that BiH is only 005% of the GDP, which means that it is 30 times less than it was in 1990, when 1.5% was singled out. If we stick to the postulate that a country without science, a country without a future, I consider it imperative in the Budget proposal to allocate funds for science, at least in terms of the allocation of funding for EU research projects, which our scientific and research scientists cannot apply to because of lack of financial resources order, 10 000 to 20,000 KM. In fact, the EU has launched a competition for scientific and research work, which is an FP7 competition that will single out and finance 50 billion-euro scientific and research projects in the coming period. However, our scientific and research workers are unable to finance applications, so please, it means to allocate funds if nothing for applications. In that context, I think it would be necessary, too, to form a centre for the development of science and to bring state mechanisms for popularization of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9064	Thank you. Mrs. Rajilić. Let's line up. In this row where Mrs. Rajilić is sitting, has anyone applied for a parliamentary question? Mr. Jovičić, I'm a little past, you're out. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9065	Gentlemen of the chairman, joining the parliamentary issue of Mr. Izetbegović and Mr. Kadrić, not wanting me to stress immediately that I am measuring Srebrenica with any area in BiH, because it is undeniable that genocide has been found there and we will not dispute it, but crimes have been committed in many areas of BiH. So, in order not to spread to all of BiH now, because it would take us 5 or 10 mandates to determine all of this,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9066	Give me a question, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9067	But here's a question for start-up, for competent institutions to help the people of Srebrenica, for reparation, for returning and for creating conditions, for the Serbian side to propose at least one city or one place where Srbin were killed, and for the Croatian side to do the same. I do not want to repeat that I am making any parity or balance between the crimes committed and the victims, but for solidarity and for the sake of the overall situation in BiH and inter-human and international relations and reconciliation, so that this would be a good one politically, so I would say our contribution here, to go into realisation, later, other solving cases where people are uncontested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9068	Is that a question or an initiative?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9069	It is an initiative that I support, Mr Izetbegović, Mr Kadrić, and I join my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9070	I hope you give it in writing, I have today
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9071	I wasn't ready for this, but I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9072	I have a very open and patient approach today, for the first time there are parliamentary issues but we are already going too far and we are slightly mixing parliamentary issues, replicas, etc. But here's what we're gonna do today, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9073	You'll get it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9074	But I ask you to take a look at the Rules of Procedure, because at the next session, we're gonna stick to it strictly. So, in the next row, behind you, was anyone reported for a parliamentary question? Thank you. Let's go, Mr. Dokić, next row. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9075	Mr. Chairman, I submit an initiative to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Nikola Špirić to raise the issue of the responsibility of BiH Foreign Minister Sven Alkalaj, because by his attempt to put aside the bilateral agreement on BiH's dual citizenship with the Republic of Serbia, he violated the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, Law of BiH, and Article 33(2), which quotes: "The cancellation or withdrawal of the International Treaty by BiH is decided by the BiH Presidency, either on his own initiative or on a proposal from the Council of Ministers of BiH under the prior agreement of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH".
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9076	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Looks like we had three, four of the same questions, but no problem. Please surrender. Uh, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9077	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have one very short question from the foreign minister at the BiH Council of Ministers. Are there official data or reliable estimates of the number of BiH citizens living in the world, and they took citizenship from countries with which BiH does not have a dual citizenship agreement and did not, therefore, give up or not quit BiH citizenship? What is the number or estimate of our citizens with this status, and what does BiH intend to do in order not to lose these citizens because if they are conditioned to give up BiH citizenship, I am afraid that 99% will have to do so reluctantly? This problem is particularly expressed among BiH citizens in America, who are reportedly more than 200 000 with this status and are given the impression that, in the interest of BiH, in this particular case, America is more and better concerned than ourselves. Please, therefore, for a written answer, because to ask this question, I was initiated by the Intrinsic Circle of the Krajisniks of Luis Sent and I would like to forward the official answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9078	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9079	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the minister of justice and to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It is known in public that a number of people, a number of citizens, are facing the problem that there is a suspicion that they are suspected of war crimes. And it is also known in public that in the last months, days, months, agreements have been signed between Canton Tuzl and Belgrade, so I would ask the minister under which constitution Canton Tuzla can sign an agreement with Belgrade for persons not in Canton Tuzla, either in Serbia, but are located in the area of another municipality. Here, I'd say, the municipalities of Zvornik, and also by which law and constitution, if there is a reasonable suspicion that they committed a war crime, that they are responding in a place where there is no doubt that they committed it. So all this applies to the part of the people living in Zvornik, and it should not be understood that people are running away from the problem that they are suspects, but simply to put themselves in the frameworks of the law and the constitution, to respond to that area where there is a suspicion that they committed a crime, and also to know once whether it is the area, here is Zvornik specifically, whether it is in Republika Srpska or in Bosnia and Herzegovina 24 or in Serbia. I think that behind these cases, however, the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina should stand, including Republika Srpska, in any case some regions where certain municipalities are not located. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9080	Thank you, Mr. Mitrović. In this order, we no longer have anyone, and in this way we have concluded the agenda point of the parliamentary issues. Of course, the ministry will forward to the appropriate addresses, and we will try as soon as possible to get those answers. Let's move on, let's move on, so at the point of today's three agenda, it's about Ad. 3. Proposal for a decision establishing the termination of the mandate of MPs, at the House of Representatives Mr Dragan Vrankić and Mrs Borjana Krišto I'm opening a debate on dot three. There's no argument. I suggest we take the plea. So, firstly, we declare the decision to suspend Mr Dragan Vrankić's term of office. Vote now. I agree that with 31 votes in favour, without votes against and abstentions, we have reached a decision to set the end of the term of office for Mr. Dragan Vrankić. We move on to a statement on the Decision to determine the termination of the parliamentary term of Borjani Krišto. Vote now. I agree that with 22 votes for and 2 abstentions, we have adopted the decision to suspend the parliamentary term of office of Ms. Borjana Krišto. We move on to the point of the four sessions today, so it's about Ad. 4. Confirmation of appointment: (a) Deputy Minister of Communications and Transport, (b) Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs, (c) Deputy Minister of Defence for Politics and Planning.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9083	As far as the SDA is concerned, since I asked for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9084	May I have your attention, the session has begun, please sit down, Mr. Raguž, sit down. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9085	Since I asked for a break on behalf of the SDA Club, as far as the SDA's concerned, the session can continue its work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9086	The explanation's good. Thank you very much. Allow me, let me, this one, to give up before a statement, therefore, the President of the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Minister, is quite justifiable, this one, in my opinion, to give up further arguments, believing that the Commission's report is quite clear. But before the plea, for a stenogram, let me read the decision. So on the basis of Articles 5, 10, 10.f) and 17. The Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 3003, 4203 and 8106), I am making a decision, the Decision to appoint the Deputy Minister of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. For Deputy Ministers of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Veselin Poljašević -- Deputy Minister of Civil Affairs Mr. Senad Šepić -- Deputy Defence Minister for Policy and Planning, Mr. Igor Srnadak, I apologize to Igor. Article 2 - This decision takes effect on the date of confirmation appointed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Signing the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić. So, I'm a member of the 2nd speaking our position, our position, our authority. So, I urge you to state who is in favour of confirming this decision to appoint a deputy minister, as indicated. So we vote in the package. Vote now. So 27 votes for, 16 from the Federation, 11 from Republika Srpska. I agree that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives confirmed the decision to appoint Deputy Ministers Veselin Poljašević, Senad Šepić and Igor Srnadk, not to read the ministry because I read it earlier. So, I congratulate the newly elected deputy ministers and, of course, we do now, we now have this solemn act. I call upon them to give the solemn, or to make a solemn statement for these situations. 26 Deer Jelena you to men. So please follow me,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9087	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9088	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9089	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9090	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9091	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9092	Respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9093	Full implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Agreement for Peace
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9094	Full implementation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Framework Agreement for Peace
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9095	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9096	Protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9097	Thank you. I congratulate you again. Anyone who wants to congratulate can. ...conceived to continue our work. [[Applause]] We're on our way, please sit down and get back to work. We move to the fifth point of today's agenda, so this is about: Ad.5. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure The proposal for this law was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2006. The material has been sent to you, therefore, all materials and from the previous Council of Ministers have been sent to you. I'm opening a motion hearing. So today we're deciding the procedure. The Council of Ministers is asking us to work, to determine the procedure under Rule 105 of the Old Rules of Procedure. If we accept the procedure, it's up to the law immediately. If we don't accept the procedure under Rule 105, the law goes into regular procedure. Here's the debate. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9099	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, from the SNSD Club, we believe that we cannot accept today this procedure and the purely procedural issue because we believe that the newly elected Council of Ministers should be given opportunities, this law concerns them directly and that, and all knowing the procedure and what follows us, means we are not able to today....(not sharing) and that is our position.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9100	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Any further discussions? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9101	The SDS club won't support emergency procedures either. Otherwise, we won't support an emergency procedure that we haven't even done in the previous session. So, out of these, not getting into the details now, we're going to give an opportunity, we're going to give it a chance, so the amendment works on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9102	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9103	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that as the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, we should enable continuity in the functioning of BiH institutions in every aspect and in terms of what it did earlier than the Council of Ministers' meeting and about what it did before the Presidency, and also earlier Parliament's assembly of BiH, because if that were not the case, then it would be a serious problem in the functioning of BiH institutions. The proposal for this law is set out in one of the meetings of the previous Council of Ministers and it is now in parliamentary procedure here, the truth marked as a law that goes according to this emergency procedure. However, so much time has passed since this law was laid down as a proposal by the Council of Ministers, and unanimously, that we can no longer speak of an urgent adoption of the law even though the procedure is marked as an emergency. I think that BiH can no longer wait to solve the issues which are the content of this law, here I will not talk about the content unless I have the opportunity today, because I am asking you to, in fact, call on us all to bear in mind this fact and to give support and procedure and the very essence of this law so that BiH has this law, at least in the House of Representatives, adopted, and here I hope, in about ten days, and in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, I repeat, it is a very important issue of interest for all of us in BiH and I appeal once again to support both the procedure and the content of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9104	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Is anyone else answering for a word? If he doesn't answer, I'll close the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, for 20, 18, just a little bit, for 20, 14 v, 18:2 when it comes to entities, therefore, it is good, therefore 18 in the Federation, 2 in Republika Srpska, so the law, i.e. the request of the Council of Ministers for Procedure under Article 105 for this law did not get an entity majority. I, unfortunately, must conclude that the law goes into regular procedure, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the law is going to agree, the request, of course, I'm listening, I'm listening to Mr. Lozančić. So there's no consent, there's no consent in the College, which means we're going to the second round of voting. Therefore, those who are against the Council of Ministers' request for a shortened procedure vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. We have 12 MPs from Republika Srpska against, which means the Council of Ministers' request for a shortened procedure has not received support and the law goes into regular procedure. Thank you. We're going to point six, so is it necessary, Mr. Kalabić? Well, we'll have lunch break in an hour. I'm asking you to work a little more rationally, then we'll take a break in an hour. The sitting will take a long time, but well, you have, of course, right Mr. Kalabić, I don't mean anything anymore. People are looking for breaks as they please and whenever they want. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić. Time out for 15 minutes. Explain the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9105	Kalabić. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9106	Kalabić, but here we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9107	Mr. Chairman, that's how we asked convincingly for this break because of our commitment to the women's part of the club, so to speak, and what they're going to make, so we went out to meet them this way. We can keep working.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9108	Thank you. I hope no one has that kind of obligation before 8 March. Let's go, let's go this way, so the next item of the agenda, the sixth point of the agenda, is about: Ad.6. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of BiH by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So this is about a brief procedure, and I don't think there should be any reason why we shouldn't support this request. I'm opening a debate. No, I'm closing the argument. Prepare to vote, so we declare procedure, request for procedure 104. Prepare to vote. Vote now. In addition to 28 votes for and 1 against, I find that the Council of Ministers' request for a shortened procedure, when it comes to the law, amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces has been adopted. We're moving to agenda seven. It's also about Ad. 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a framework law on pre-school education and emergency education in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9111	Well, that's what they told me. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in BiH has been given. I was, of course, trying to read this text, agree it with people who worked in the task force, and, uh, I got the information next. So, given that the Ministry of 30 Republika Srpska, which was to say that it was in agreement with this material, told me that the material sent to our procedure was not identical to the material they agreed on. I therefore ask the Ministry, or the Council of Ministers, as well as us MPs, to return this material to the Council of Ministers for reconciliation and their statement on the proposed text. If necessary in further discussion, I may also say which members differ from the agreed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9112	I understand, uh, your argument. However, this is not a matter of content debate, so it is a matter of procedure. I am very sorry that the resolute minister who was here, unfortunately, is absent at the moment, but here comes Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Therefore, it is a request for a procedure which opens up the possibility through intervention procedure, etc. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9113	I wanted to say what you were talking about, Mr. Chairman. So, a while ago, this law was on a constitutionality assessment, namely a test of compliance with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and it is pending a procedure. So the questions spoken of by an esteemed colleague, of course, can be raised on that commission, I don't want to put things back now. It's not this more complicated, this would be putting things back on the Council of Ministers. We have practice here in the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina that if there are any questions, then these are issues that will be discussed with the proposing at the very meeting of the committee responsible and that these issues will be discussed. I ask you, therefore, to allow this Parliament to finally start dealing with essential issues, to start doing what our job is. These two pre-school laws and the law on this agency are obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has on its European path where we will meet very often in the future because we have a lot of work to do and we haven't done it, have we? And here, I call on you to give us consent and to shorten the procedure that basically means nothing when it comes to content except cutting deadlines in half so that all people who think differently about this law on its essence won't lose anything by this procedure. They will, therefore, have the opportunity to say to the competent commission what they have. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9114	Thank you. Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9115	A brief replica of the presentation of a respected counterpart, Džaferović, refers to the fact that both the ministry and the institutions of Republika Srpska are indisputable in this reform road and its participation. There's a fact here that there's a difference, meaning that if someone participates in a consensus, it's place in the alignment that 31 must be respected. So there's no ex post corrections, no after, then it's not a match. We have a serious observation here, so, a serious remark that the institutions that participated in the reconciliation, that what lies ahead is not that, that. We're simply looking, so we're getting these institutions back, and that's to do it as planned and nothing else. So here we're not talking about the essence here, we're not talking about opposition to the essence itself or, I don't know, so if we're talking about procedure and we're talking about if an institution should be involved in compliance the way it's supposed to be, then there's little space left for the Members themselves to make up for its place in that procedure. And I'm just asking you to appreciate it in the future and that we're not getting into this situation right now. We have the right to do what we want and what is our jurisdiction here in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but at the same time we cannot avoid the warning of an institution that took part in the agreement that it was simply not what was the subject of reconciliation. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9116	So, I repeat, we're discussing procedure. Of course, we all have our arguments. Mr. Novaković, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9117	Well, you see, what we're passing here as well and by the way is an amazing fact that one text in the agreement is adopted, that the Ministers of the Republic of Srspka and the Federation are giving it their signature, so now consent and that after that, we get another text in the procedure. It's just amazing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9118	Mr. Novaković, the parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina decides, you keep dragging us into the talks, some ministers something like this, that. At this point, this matter is decided by Parliament, regardless of the ministers, this, that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9119	I beg you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9120	We're discussing procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9121	I'm really trying to work on the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you not to interrupt me in every sentence, because I appreciate what I'm about to say, I'm going to say anyway. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9122	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9123	Given that fact that's catastrophic, it takes time, so it takes time to see if it's true or not. That time means it does not allow for a shortened procedure, but rather a regular procedure. I'm begging you, so don't interrupt me and you have no reason to. I'm sure I won't take more of your time than you'll take from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9124	Thank you, and here I am applying for a discussion. So, I've been trying all along to start the process towards the essence of things, so, to discuss the procedure. I, unfortunately, of course, am aware that in this country, while a whole series of previous issues of consent, etc., are not achieved, this parliament cannot work. So the question is, what he's doing at all, whether he's just advocating what someone's agreed on, etc., so his original functions are in some way at stake. But I answered for something else. You have certain information, you have certain information. My information tells you otherwise. So we'd go far now by proving to each other and that's why I was more inclined to discuss the procedure. It is your right not to accept procedure 104. It is the right of others to support it and we will see what the result of the vote will say. And one more thing to say. The Council of Ministers, and all ministers in the Council of Ministers, of course, excluding these people who were appointed today, had time to make an inventory in their ministries. Don't tell me the ministers don't know what the laws are in the process. Therefore, the need for the Council of Ministers, i.e. ministers, etc. It's too much for me to begin with. People know, I'm sure, what's in the process, what's the phase and what's the content. So everyone has a chance to prepare the sessions. The college is open to each minister, to send a letter, to request a meeting, to discuss the law. Here, without intent, indeed, to complicate procedures etc., I return to the agenda again and here, please, if, of course, anyone else has to argue, but to bring the end. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9125	Mr. Chairman, I've been discussing the procedure. I hope you won't take the right to explain why I'm not for some procedure, Mr. Chairman, I've been discussing the procedure. I hope you won't take the right to explain why I'm not into some procedure. I don't think that's good. I'm in no hurry today. So here it is, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will discuss it. But please, we may have different information. My intel says your minister was up to something here, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9126	And my parents say your minister was up to something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9127	Therefore, if Mr. Halilović, just like you, and I, means, we are saying that we need time to determine who he is. And that's why I'm against, so the procedure under Article 104. 33 than in one regular procedure to come up with a solution that is consistent. Here, nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9128	Thank you. Here's Mr. Bešlagić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9129	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to ask you, Mr. Halilović is our minister. Republika Srpska's minister is from the Republic of Srspka, the Federation minister is from the Federation. I'm talking about our minister. And allow me, if there is any doubt about our minister, I would ask if the minister could tell us or suggest that this law is now prolonging for the next time, because I would like to adopt him as such. I mean, so please don't, our ministers are here. And I see no one but our ministers. There you go. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9130	Of course. You're absolutely right. Here you go, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9131	I also want to replicate. Halilović is the minister of all citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not ours, so much thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9132	Okay. Thank you. Here, is there anyone else to discuss signing up for? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. By procedure, we will, of course, declare on this request by the Council of Ministers that the law, the bill, the framework law on pre-school education and emergency education, should be considered in accordance with Article 104. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Mr. Jaferovic's vote is. So with 18 votes for, 16, from Federation 2, Republika Srpska, this request was not received entity support. So, here comes the alignment. Here we go. We'll try it on the spot. Of course, here's the deal. So, let's move on, we're voting against this request from the Council of Ministers for a shortened procedure. Vote now. Therefore, the number of votes against is sufficient for this request to be rejected. So, I find that the Council of Ministers' request for a shortened procedure for this law has been rejected and is going to the regular procedure. 34 I hope that in the regular procedure these allegations and these doubts will be cleared up, as I say. Let's move on. Moving to point 8. We also have Ad.8. The request of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Preschool Elementary and Secondary Education, also following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104, of course, of the old Rules of Procedure Here is also a request for a shortened procedure as well as at the previous point. I'm opening a debate. Here you go, Mrs. Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9133	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my argument is similar to that of the previous law, which means we are looking for a regular procedure, which means returning to the ministries for consideration. However, I would like to ask for something, there are few members from the Council of Ministers, but still, to pass on that this kind of thing will not happen in the future. Especially, so, the previous law that, according to my information, has been amended into a few things that make the law completely different. However, this law, which we are now considering, is the proposal for a law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Medium Education, which has essentially changed. Of course, we can talk again about my information and other information, but I have, therefore, received information that an organization is being created, or agency as an expert, as an expert organization. However, by reading this law and looking at, let's say, the laws of the neighborhood, I was given the impression that it was an administrative organisation that should exercise control over the implementation of the law that we had just returned to the regular procedure and that it was doing, meaning, inspection work in a relationship, not only pre-school education, but also primary and secondary education, which, of course, the law at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina does not know at all. One more thing, once again, means I ask the representatives of the Council of Ministers to pass on that it is irresponsible, not to say another word and more difficult, if yesterday was a working group meeting in Sarajevo on this law, it is really irresponsible that someone seven days before us should be referred to the procedure, and the working group has not finished their work at all. So I'm asking, so the Minister is going through this and this isn't happening in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9134	I believe the minister knows all this, but of course, he won't be too big to know what's still being said here. Here you go. Here you go. There isn't. I am closing the debate, and I urge you to plead with me on the request of the Council of Ministers. Voting now. So for 21, Federation 19, from Republika Srpska the same thing. The missing entity support, the insufficient number of votes. It's a match. Synchronising "%s" 35 So, we vote, we vote those who are against the demands. Vote now. It voted 13, which is enough, or 11 from the Republic, which is enough not to accept this request. I find, therefore, that the request has not been accepted and that the law goes into regular procedure. The next point 9 is now Ad.9. Proposal for a law on violations, because we've removed the earlier point 9 from today's agenda so it's a proposal for a law on violations. Let me remind you that this law has been in the process before. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So point 9 has not been removed, this point has been removed regarding the Management Board 12. Well. Ad.9. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on a decision on the case and scope and type of concession for the purpose of building the Highway on Corridor Vc The reminders for the procedure were practically carried out in the previous meeting and this decision was not confirmed because it did not have an entity majority. Unfortunately, the previous college disagreed with this decision. We felt, and because of the requests and the Commission for concessions and the very nature of things, it was good to finish this as soon as possible. However, I must report that we have not reached agreement, we have not reached agreement on this decision. We had conflicting opinions when it came to competences, i.e. the content of concessions and certain relations, etc., but in the shortest case, we failed to reach agreement. The procedure is clear, this parliament should now be declared, i.e. to go to the vote, to vote on who is against confirming the concession decision. So, I'm opening a debate. There is no debate, but here, ask Mr. Džaferović for a brief address.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9136	Look, it's quite clear how this, as it's called, this decision is, I think, given everything that's been going on in this previous session. I ask if we will build Corridor Vc in Bosnia and Herzegovina or not? Me, guys, this can't go on like this. We must, therefore, yes, have signed there this document called – the establishment of the parliamentary majority and we have said, we have written a programming, this, what is called, goals and tasks, and we have said that it is one of the key things about the economy of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the construction of Corridor, as it is called, the passage to Corridor Vc. The Council of Ministers in the previous meeting, on a proposal from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The minister, here he was, what's called, at the session, is the one who suggested it here in Parliament. Are we going to bring this thing back to the Council of Ministers now? I'm asking you to find some way, Chairman, that this doesn't fall. This if you drop 36.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9137	I don't mind, but believe me, I'm all the argument you're saying I used. There's just no discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9138	Here's what I want to say in public here at the session. I think it's better then. If we are, then, in such a situation that we do not tear this thing down. Return to the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers again. Let the competent commission, as it is called, sit down on this issue, consider, let's see what the problem is. We all said we were committed to building Corridor Vc. It is known that the concessions commission cannot operate unless this document is present.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9139	Mr. Džaferović, I'll have to open up a full debate then.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9140	Well, let it open, Mr. Belkić, the chairman, better that than this to fall. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9141	Mr. Džaferović, I also feel the same way if he falls, but I have no way, just people won't support this. Here you go, Mr. Živković. Please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9142	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, after what Mr. Džaferović said, did not give consent to this decision from several very important things I want to say here, although I asked the Kolegijum to get out of this situation the way you suggested. Here I am, formulating it in my conclusions. I believe that this decision is premature from the point of view of the lack of legal regulation that the decision could be based on. I do not enter the constitutional basis of this decision, but I would show concern for the lack of, say, the Law on Roads, the regulations that are operationally required to follow this decision, I am talking about the level and jurisdiction of the implementation, for example, the land expropriation process, the technical work for which licensed persons need to do the work. You know we have licenses in Bosnia and Herzegovina at the entity level. On the other hand, in some parts the decision is incomplete and insufficient, not clear enough to cause the possibility of wrong, or ambiguous interpretation. I could now state the reasons and move forward the medium-term development strategy of the Bosnia and Herzegovina concession law. However, I wanted us to come out of this situation by proposing a conclusion that would be put here before a statement on this decision, that the decision on the case and the 37-volume and type of concessions for the purpose of building the Highway on Corridor Vc should be referred to the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina for further consultations with the entity governments and the Government of the Brcko District and that such a decision should come to this parliament for a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9143	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure will not, let us, this way and we will have to make a statement, and of course, it is not a problem that this conclusion in the context of the debate, etc., or, if you formally suggest it, that, following the statement of this decision, this conclusion be made as some kind of way out of the situation. I, personally, think, should go out into the light of day and be determined according to every document we have, not trying, so yes, Mr. Novaković, but here's the thing of that nature and it's so important, here I am giving you my word, and you've been answering. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. You're not. Here you go, Mr. Raguž, for a moment, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I was really wrong to give Mr. Džaferović a chance that had already been raised. So you should vote. Here you go, Mr. Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9144	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your word. I do not intend to open any further discussion, but we also see from those who have not given consent in the College, we see the willingness to bring this issue to Parliament. Why, then, don't turn it into a conclusion, because this is one of the most important questions for this country. And if there are doubts about this decision, there is no question about the need to regulate this issue by a decision on the case and the type of concession for the purpose of building the Highway to assign the Council of Ministers to deliver all these elements to this Parliament within a month. I wish we had that as a cover if someone did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9145	Thank you. Mr. Bešlagić, just for a minute, please. There's no argument.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9146	Since I was a member of the Commission with traffic and communications in the last meeting, here yesterday we had a commission and a president of the neighbourhood, Mr Dokić, who has just explained to us that this should be accepted. Therefore, I am saying that this is expressed by committee members who are just doubting, let's say, the possibility of applying this law, although Mr Dokić said this is about principle. So neither entity is said, nor this, but it's either a whole stock, or a partial donor, which means it allows every other possible combination. I think it would be a shame if today this law were to literally fail. That's why I'm on the trail, all those who proposed, if at all possible, because it makes sense to me that the new ministry, the new Minister of Transport and Communications and the Government and the Council of Ministers should actually give this up and that it has to go away. I think that, one last reason, the past assembly demanded the Law of Ways. The commitment of all of us was that it had to be done, in which it was said that Corridor C5 was a state project and I think that if 38 of the Council of Ministers could find a solution to this solution, and I think it would have to be found, I think it would be good to
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9147	Maybe we could do this, I apologize to these people who answered because it's obvious that there's a mood for this thing to fail. I can't argue that there's a mood to adopt this kind of decision, because it's obviously gone, but there's a mood for things not to fail. So I suggest, perhaps, we should make a statement instead of a decision on this conclusion, and definitely a statement on the decision, so here is Mr. Živković's proposal for a brief conclusion. Well, I don't mind, Mr. Lagumdžija, of course. Mr. Bahtić called earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9148	I would've just reached out, also yesterday at the Commission for Traffic and Communications was, most of the members of the commission were to go, we know that the law should be directed, but the defacto time, not even half a year, will leave us this season. We all know that this, we've heard, is the most important project for Bosnia and Herzegovina when it's a pre-election campaign, all of us are full of praises to the Highway, the Highway, we're all talking about it, the Vc, the employment pulls, and when there's a concrete piece, then I don't see the reason because it's defined here, so everything can be solved, so, the extent of the concession, the entire length of the highway or the shares. It means no problem. Everything can be solved with this. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9149	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović, just for a little while, so Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9150	Well, it's very short. I suggest that this decision, the motion for this decision, be returned to our competent Commission for Transport and Communications. Let the committee sit down, there is a possibility that all possible views and interests can be expressed there in that commission. There's an earlier minister who's chairman of the commission. A new minister will come to that committee. And let us have this commission, our commission, deliver this, what's-his-name, report to us in the next 15 days. It's very important that we also have a time limit. So I suggest that this be returned to the committee responsible and that the deadline for the new report be 15 days. That's it. Thank you. It's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9151	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9152	I am against the conclusion made by Mr. Živković because he introduces a completely new element, and this is a return to the beginning of the story from 4 years ago about entity governments and so on. We don't have to commit any entity, and that's the conclusion that, therefore, I'm against that conclusion. And I'm joining all 39 people who want to keep this from going down today. We don't want to bother you here because this is going down on me, as well as you, Berize.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9153	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9154	So, just now, we need to make a statement about this at some point in time in our rules of procedure. I only propose, since it is not, that I join Mr Džaferović's conclusion, only the conclusion that he will return, that, since we do not have a minister here to take advantage of that fact, the minister is not there, that the minister is manifesting himself along with the Council of Ministers, given that this is nine months old. So let's just postpone this, but by respecting our rules of procedure and by respecting certain principles as a commission, I repeat the Council of Ministers and the Minister of power. Before we make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9155	Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Živković's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9156	I would like to remind the honourable MP, Mr Lagumdžija, that I have only respected the Law on concessions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, in its Article 4, is relevant for the award of concessions, leaves that possibility for the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to make decisions on the type and subject of concession, as well as the scope of the concession granted, to the Parliamentary Assembly, in the second position, says - in the case of the common measure of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia, the Brcko District and Bosnia and Herzegovina for the award of concessions, the relevant bodies will agree the terms and forms of the award of concession. So I just want the Law on the award of concessions in Bosnia and Herzegovina literally to be respected. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9157	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Is it a replica or what? Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9158	What Mr. Živković read doesn't match at all with this, with this law, with this decision. So, I think here, since we all have the will, and Živković, and me and everyone here we discussed, let this pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9159	Let's concentrate on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9160	So the solution is to do it in fact. There's nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9161	Come on, we have two proposals, one proposal is that this one, not to say today about this decision, and that it is back to the Council of Ministers, no, no, one law, so Mr. Živković's proposal is to return to the Council of Ministers for further consultations with entity governments and the Government of the Brcko District. That's the conclusion, Proposition One. The second conclusion is that it will return to the competent commission, which will submit a report to this Parliament within 15 days, and then we would make a statement about it. So we have two conclusions. I'm begging. [[Common discussion]] Wait a minute, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9163	Look, I have a third proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9164	Let's hear it from Mr. Novaković. Just a little bit, Mrs. Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9165	Namely, I'm looking for
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9166	A little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9167	I demand respect for the Rules of Procedure. So today you've unnecessarily opened a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9168	But it's useful, though, for everyone to say what they have.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9169	Let's say the necessary, but contrary to the Rules of Procedure. If it's more expensive, then you need to open the debate, contrary to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9170	Well, no, it's not exactly the opposite of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9171	So I ask who defends the Council of Ministers to put this issue on the agenda after a statement on this decision? But if we feel that we will step up what they can do with Mr. Živković's conclusion, I am to vote on this, and then put the conclusion of Mr. Živković on the agenda. We will respect the Rules of Procedure and open the space for the Council of Ministers to resolve the issue in a different way. We must respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Chairman. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9172	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Here you go. Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9173	Mr. Chairman, you've gone a little bit with one dose of ignoring my remarks to make it normal and rational for the new Council of Ministers to temporarily withdraw all decisions and all legal solutions from the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9174	Well, he can't withdraw his business.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9175	to carry out an audit, etc., and to return them as an authorised proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9176	Well, he can't withdraw his business, Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9177	Then you wouldn't even need this alignment that you're doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9178	If you hear me, he can't pull back. This has been in the process since last year.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9179	Why can't he?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9180	He can't, of course he can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9181	I believe the Rules of Procedure allow it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9182	Oh, he won't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9183	Then this is how we get along.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9184	Well, we'll get along. It's Parliament. Is there any further? Mrs. Rajilić, you again, replica, what is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9185	It's not a replica, it's just a little bit of guidance where we'd consider it necessary. Since I'm a member of the Traffic Commission and I was on this committee yesterday, we had 42 serious objections to Article 2(2). - I don't think the Commission will be able to agree on this. So this commission should have an extended assembly, people, experts in areas and concessions and traffic and connections, etc. So we'd have to make some kind of round table for us to do it. Given that the decision of the chairman, or Council of Ministers, I believe this should be referred to them for reconciliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9186	Thank you very much. I think it's good that we've all heard everything, so now there are even clearer things about the Commission, etc. So obviously they were right to warn us to go to procedure. So I'll do the procedure first. I urge you to vote against this concession decision. Vote now. So it's up to 13, 11 from the RS, 2 from the Federation saying this decision didn't go through. It's still on the Council of Ministers, and it's still on our initiatives, commissions, etc. I thank you. Let's move on. Point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposed law on violations, first reading Let me remind you, it's also a law from earlier in procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission has established a constitutional basis. As the competent commission gave a positive report, she accepted an amendment that became an integral part of the law, and in the end, the Constitutional-Law Commission unanimously accepted this text and concluded that the law could be passed. So today we have the first vote, or first reading, to open the debate. Are there any reports of a hearing? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I call upon you to plead with this law in the first reading. Vote now. So I can immediately conclude that the law has received unanimous support, and in my opinion, there have been conditions for us to enter into a second reading, but we should decide first. Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9188	Mr. Chairman, we are opposed to this proposal, which we believe should, however, give time, respecting what is said today to be done in terms of improvement and what allows the procedure. I don't think there's any need to go in today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9189	Here you go. Mr. Džaferović 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9190	I can get up now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9191	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9192	You said last time I got up, and you didn't give me your word. So, I'm a disciplined man. Thank you very much, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9193	Of course, of course. Please, nice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9194	Just to clarify, therefore, I am now speaking as President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, chairing, I apologize, Constitutional and Legal Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission gave its report on the constitutional basis on 24.8 last year and of course confirmed the existence of a constitutional basis, and last 13.9 last year submitted a report as the competent commission on the draft law on infringements. I can respect the need of colleagues from the SNSD Club to, behold, today they are not ready to read about the law in the second reading, but I want to say that there are no more business opportunities for any interventions on this text because the commission has finished its work, the competent commission has finished its work. The amendments were not submitted 48 hours before this session. So we don't have any new amendments to the amendments, or amendments that cover new ones. So that I don't bother you any further, there are no, therefore, procedural options for the introduction of new amendments. The integrated text of this law, which is a reform law, concerning judicial reform, of the European obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is what we have received from the Council of Ministers, amended by what has been adopted as an amendment to Mr Gligorić's proposal, a fellow member of the previous assembly, to Article 44. The law. And it's the law to vote on, and vote me today or vote for, I don't know, 15 days from now, when there's going to be another session, nothing in this law can be improved or changed in relation to this text. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9195	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a discussion? I hope this discussion of Mr. Džaferović was very useful, very useful and I ask you to think about it a little bit. We, of course, can today, so to speak, stop the process, organise another reading in 10-15 days, but the content of the law will not change. And I'm asking you to keep that in mind. Here's a word for Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9196	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a general view of the SNSD's relationship to the laws in which, in this way, they came to the BiH Parliament. Apparently, the new MPs don't know that practically, right now, we have in 44 procedures of two Rules of Procedures that are here... So we've got tails from past renditions, and now we're getting rid of them. This session is doing it, and as far as I can see, we have big problems explaining how the old Rules of Procedure works, how it will work, very quickly, I believe, from the next session, according to the new Rules of Procedure. The fact is, too, that there is a provision in the old Rules of Procedure that, if there are new aspects regarding the law under consideration, that the Commission has the right, or this Parliament, to make new amendments, or to adopt, or vote on them. Give opportunity to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the new Constitutional and Legal Commission, the Constitutional and Legal Commission of this House, all MPs to read this law, to consider whether there are new aspects in this matter and to give these amendments, 48 hours before the beginning of the next session, to this Parliament. Don't say it won't happen. I believe it won't be, but here, come on, I think it's fair in front of the College, in front of the old MPs, to allow the new MPs, that opportunity we had in the previous session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9197	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Is there any further discussion? We all need to be practical in some way, this SNSD, or SNSD MPs' club, has something to say, because it simply has instruments, uh, to stop through entity voting every kind of procedure. Well, it's not an incorrect name, of course you can. That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9198	I would ask all present fellow Members not to comment on any relationship here. If that's what they want to do, let them go out to the pay phone, let it be said. I don't think there was any obstruction by the SNSD today, I said, I explained that these were procedures that were from the former Council of Ministers' call, that these procedures, we explained why we weren't against, we're part of this assembly majority. All the legal acts that will be passed by this Council of Ministers will have our support in this House. We are here, especially now on this law, praying to be respected and all the other MPs who are here in the new congregation. Obviously, it wants to be misread and the SNSD has been accused of obstruction in this House. I don't think it's fair and correct and I think in the next period, we're going to show that we really want to do it right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9199	I sincerely hope, of course, this and I honestly expect it to be so, but unfortunately these are the procedures of the old Rules of Procedure, so these are the procedures that we have to complete and I think it's correctly explained to people, that there is no amendment phase, that this is the text that is there. Of course, everyone has the right to decide on him. Here's this one, before Mr. Kalabić, Džaferović answered and Mr. Kalabić answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9200	I'm glad Mr. Živković said what he said about the pay phone. I really expect that the next sessions of the House of Representatives, when it comes to the adoption of these laws, are not sittings that will look like this session today. I have to say that I'm not satisfied, of course, I have the right to do it, but here it's simply about things that can't be changed, so it's not possible, so nothing, I don't think at first 45 should change anything, it's people and in an earlier life have estimated that you shouldn't. This amendment was unanimously adopted. There were no other amendments. I don't see any reason why we shouldn't finally start adopting laws in this country, it's in this Parliament's assembly. That's the only reason I got up. We lose people, we lose people, we lose people for 15 days. This way, if we continue, in my opinion, it won't be good. I hope that future work will be different. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9201	Thank you very much. Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9202	Well, I don't think you really had the need to open up a special debate on this issue because I think we got along quite well. The SNSD MPs simply asked to respect the continuity, so the Council of Ministers, the new Council of Ministers, the new institutions, and simply to stop anything in that part, while giving opportunity for all people to participate equally in the procedure. And just that, that was my message, where we were looking, because we had today and some unwanted situations that in this transitional period tried something and did what was not appropriate to this Parliament. And to avoid such a thing, so that all MPs would make decisions responsibly, means that, yes, if I could, I don't see the reason to be around something right now, especially because there were no fundamental remarks, means where there's an undisputed will to, to adopt something like this, but it's simply a need for understanding, just for the situation that we have, which is clear to all of you, and we're clearly showing it here. We absolutely reject any objection regarding the obstruction of the adoption of this law and any other reform law, but at the same time we want to respect our position in this Parliament as MPs, to simply be able to access everything that the old Parliament has had, that had commissions in the previous assembly and nothing else. Nothing here is disputed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9203	Mr. Kalabić, uh, here I won't, uh, broadly, but simply all these laws that started in the previous term, etc., there's an obligation to bring procedures and do so according to the old Rules of Procedure. So, here we can, of course, all in the desire that the law doesn't fail and we don't lose a month, etc., the Secretary of the House tells me, of course, assuming that we have in mind, that we can't change its content, but we can get 15 days of time to rise, to inform ourselves, etc. I'm not running away from it if it helps and I really am holding you, in a way, for the word that in 15 days at that session, we're going to make a statement about this law, but with the fact that we can't change it. So there, please, well, but I'll take your word that we'll support that law in the second reading. So we can use Article 95, paragraph 3, so the House can ask the Commission to make a new report, based on new guidelines within 15 days, this is what you were talking about. Here you go, Mr. Genjac. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9204	Oh, let's not get into any new complications. I really don't see the need for any extra anxiety here. The possibility to move immediately after first reading to a second reading was given as a voluntary option and it is not an obligation. So the House can be declared to be going straight to another reading as a possibility. If Dom doesn't make a statement about going to another reading right now, nothing happened. The only thing that happens is that the College has to put this law in the next session for a statement in the second reading because all the necessary procedures have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9205	Mr. Genjac, I thought since we all voted for him, do you understand me? I thought there was no problem, uh, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9206	In order to build some trust.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9207	Okay, so, Dom's not in the mood, Dom's not in the mood, obviously, won't have most for second reading, second reading will be the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9208	Let only, therefore, in order to build some trust here among the MPs and the time needed to understand the procedures and to see where we are, what we are. I don't see any tragedy, really, in that at the next session, this law is being considered in the second reading unless it's accepted that today's second reading is being considered. There's a theoretical possibility that the law can change, it does exist. So, under exceptional circumstances, the College can accept amendments, that's a theoretical possibility. So we're not gonna lose anything. At the next session, this law must be in the second reading because all deadlines, since the commission phase, must be, must be put by the College, so that I do not see the need for any additional anxiety, but for this next 15 days, yes, to spend these 15 days building trust.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9209	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is there any further? If there's no further, I really appreciate it. This discussion was in the direction, so to speak, of calming down. But here's what we discussed, and we exchanged our opinions a little bit. So, we can make a statement on the second reading, and regardless of its outcome, the law will live and return to this Parliament. So, I'm asking you to make a statement on whether we're ready today to go to the vote in the second, OK, I agree, I agree. I'm closing the debate. And I'm well-intentioned, believe me. I'm closing the debate. So we go to the next item on the agenda, we have: The appointment of one member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the ranks of the Croatian people and one member from the ranks of others. 47 The list of candidates has been established by the ad hoc commission. In terms of which, you can see from the proposal for a decision made by this commission, whose President Vinko ovaj Commission submitted a list of candidates for members of the Central Election Commission in the order of the Croatian people and others on 17 October. You got the list. So here I am saying, from the order of the Croatian people is proposed by Lidija Korać, Marin Vukoja, Boso Bošnjak and Mile Kudić. From the ranks of other peoples, Lidija Vidić, Vehid Šehić and Srđan Vukadinović. So here's a proposal from the Ad hoc selection and appointment committee when it comes to the completion of the Central Election Commission for these two members. I'm opening a debate. Is there a request for a hearing? If not, I'll conclude the debate and invite you to come forward. So, since the commission has made some sort of order to assume it's a kind of rank list, I guess it's a kind of rank list even though it doesn't, I've offered Mr. Bešlagić a debate. Please, let me go with the procedure now. I'm talking about the vote. I'm talking about the vote, sir. Well, we'll vote in a row. So let's go to the first vote in the order of the Croatian people. We have a candidate under regular number one, it's Mrs. One. Lidija Korać. I call upon you to plead. Who is in favour of choosing Lidija Korać from the ranks of the Croatian people as a member of the Central Election Commission. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Here I go again. Please. Okay. So, I invite you to plead candidate of the Croatian people, Lidija Korać. 13 for, 12 against, 13 for, 11 against, from the RS is only one MP for. So there's no entity majority and this proposal hasn't passed. So, I am reporting to you that we do not have the consent to elect Lidija Korać as a member of the Central Election Commission of the Croatian People's Order. So now the ones who are against are voting. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9211	Since there is no sole request from this committee here, that this is the first, second, third, so it is voted for first. I thought so, and I believe that these things vote for each individual. And when you get it, then you say this one's over. Here we have nothing to choose from, people. And what if no one gets votes from the Croatian people? So it's re-election again. And this is what's here. So I think that if you can explain it to us, so now we're voting for another, so then we vote for the third and we vote for the fourth and whoever gets the most votes, no matter what, he's gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9212	Mr. Bešlagić, I understand what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9213	Here I am, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9214	I understand what you're talking about, but I opened it, or there was an open opportunity to discuss it, and we could discuss it. So no one did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9215	This is a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9216	And we started voting in this order. I don't see how else to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9217	I don't see any reason to vote who's against it. There's no reason. Mr. Belkić, please, there's no reason
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9218	I understand what you're talking about. Just a moment to consult.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9219	The vote is done as in any other situation. There's no entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9220	Look, Mr. Bešlagić. Here's the Home Secretary warning me that I have to carry out the voting procedure like all the other things, as voted here. Please, I call upon you, so I call upon those who are opposed to pleading. Who's against the election? Practically the second round of voting. We have to spend as much as we can on all things.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9221	You want to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9222	So, like this, it's 17 in total, please, Martina. I didn't hear. Okay. So the candidate, Mrs. Lidija Korać, did not receive the necessary support of this parliament. We're going to the candidate under regular number two. Marin Vukoja. I call upon the House of Representatives to declare candidate Marin Vukoja. Vote now. So Mr. Marin Vukoja doesn't practically have any majority. So neither did Mr. Marin Vukoja. We vote for a candidate under regular number 3. Boso Bošnjak. Vote now. Mr. Boso Bošnjak didn't get the support either. It's nothing. We're going to the candidate under regular number four. It's about Mr. Milet Kudić. Vote now. So 27 for, 15 from the Federation, 12 from Republika Srpska. 49 I find that Mr Mile Kudić has received the necessary support of the BiH House of Representatives, that he has been elected a member of the Central, or a member of the Central Election Commission of the Croatian People's Order. We're going to a plea for candidates from the others. Candidate under regular number one. Lidija Vidić. I call upon the messengers to plead. Vote now. So he doesn't have a simple majority. Mrs Lidija Vidić did not receive Parliament's support. We're going to the candidate under regular number two, Mr. Vehid Šehić. Vote now. It has a simple majority, however, no entity. We're going for a match. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Now I call upon those who are against voting. So, who's against Mr. Šehić's election to the Central Election Commission? Vote with. No support from Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9223	(distant from the microphone and weakly heard) I have one remark. In the back row of the third, the first vote keeps going, and it's not on the screen. (?) I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9224	And which one is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9225	No, not 1, 2, 3. I don't know, but I'm looking at him. I, the mistake, am asking for a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9226	Mr. Bešlagić, what vote are you looking for again?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9227	This is the last one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9228	Last one, huh? Please, Mr. Bešlagić, here, ask us to repeat this last vote. So, please, let those who are against Mr. Vehid Šehić's election be declared. Vote now. So Mr. Šehić doesn't have the necessary support from the entity and he didn't pass. We're also going to vote on the last candidate on this list. It's about Srđan Vukadinović. 50 I call upon you to plead with me on this proposal. Please, here's a warning that something's wrong. So we repeat the vote. I urge you to plead with candidate Srđan Vukadinović. Vote now. ...and Mr. Srđan Vukadinović did not get the necessary majority and I find that we did not choose anyone from the order of the other people today. By choosing Mr Milet Kudić from the ranks of the Croatian people. Let's move on, point 12 is, and after that we're going to these agreements. Right? Agreements. So we move on to point 12, it's about giving consent to ratification of all these agreements that I read when setting the agenda, and I hope there's no need to read them all now. I, here, suggest that we consider, of course, I leave the possibility of discussing each of these individual agreements and any questions, etc., but here, because of the efficiency and economics of the work, if there are no special ones, let me put it that way, the reserves under any of this agreement, and if considered necessary, we can discuss these agreements in the package. Because we also have an opinion, a positive opinion of the Foreign Affairs Commission, so where all our representatives were. So I suggest we make a statement in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9229	Can I just do one point?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9230	Here's Mr. Živković, however, for one point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9231	Thank you, Mr. President. I simply considered it appropriate to point out as a BiH citizen that a large number of BiH citizens could sue BiH in this form if we gave consent to ratifications and conventions concerning the protection of human rights and human dignity in terms of biology and medicine. Unfortunately, it's under w), as far as I got in my materials. I don't mind if we don't have a debate based on other points of this agenda, about giving consent, not opening up means you, and voting in a package, but I'd like this point to be singled out, to return this convention to our foreign ministry. The Ministry responsible for this area. The Convention states, among other things, that BiH has the right to conclude these agreements and agreements to give its particular objections, objections, conditions. The Convention directly states that it obliges BiH and all its authorities to provide adequate health care to all people in the BiH area. There is a possibility that people believe that they have not provided, that adequate authorities in BiH have not provided adequate health care and that we are therefore in a position to, as we know, in BiH over 60% of people do not have such health care, sue BiH as a state. We have the opportunity to make our remarks at this convention. I would also like the Council of Ministers to say if we have made any remarks, if we have the possibility to make any remarks now, which would be an integral part of this Convention, which I consider very important, but here from just this concern, I would like to leave this agreement for the next session and ratify it at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9232	Thank you, Mr. Živković. I think this is very useful. I don't doubt the knowledge of matter when it comes to this thing. So it's about the Convention under w (Dubleve) whether, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, etc. Is there anyone else to discuss? Mr. Sadik? Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9233	Dear Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9234	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9235	I cannot accept this argument from the chairman of this house. I respect his remarks as a politician but I cannot accept, in particular, the fact that it is a doctor who took the Hippocratic oath and by which he himself, and all people have the right to health care, wherever they are. I cannot mourn anyone if it comes to human life, not being responsible because it is not organised in a way that gives every person, every BiH citizen, a fundamental right, a right to health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9236	Thank you, Mr Ahmetović. Mr. Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9237	Well, here's what my colleague Sadik said. It is not necessary for these citizens to sue BiH. So, they need to be given this, uh, protection by, here, to the European Convention and the oatmeals and standards, so they won't sue BiH, so I suggest we say that, however.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9238	Of course, we're all certainly committed to such a situation that everyone has health care. But what if it doesn't happen? But here you go. Mr. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9239	Mr. Chairman, I'm not quite sure it would be wise to adopt all these laws in the package, because
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9240	Convention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9241	The Convention, not only the conventions, but all of this in the package because I first join the discussion of Sadik Ahmetović, when it comes to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, because we need to do everything to bring citizens into a situation not to sue the state because of their rights, damages human rights. What I wanted to say was, that here, it seems to me that there is a need to discuss a few of these agreements, especially when it comes to loans. Because it seems completely banal to me to raise a 2m-euro loan, for example, for the reconstruction of high school or to take credit for the construction of a traffic station, this detour at Sarajevo. That's one group of questions, and if we open the discussion, I'll tell you what I think. There is more about the loan there, and another of my remarks apply, and we have discussed it on this Foreign Affairs Commission, is an air traffic agreement between the European Community and its countries. So now I've been on a break talking to the promoter, uh, and we've been trying to get to a common denominator when it comes to this. It is certainly useful and important for BiH to sign a contract like this and join this so-called. European Free Nobu(?) but I am also on the Commission, and here at Parliament today, I would just like to draw attention to the MPs that, I have used one term that is a little rough on the Commission, I have said rudely expensive, and perhaps it would be more appropriate to say that the cards from BiH and BiH are ruthlessly expensive, and I will take only an illustration of two examples. Let's say Croatia Airlines from Zagreb to Sarajevo and from Zagreb to Split, about the same distance, the map is twice as expensive because it's supposed to be a risk area in BiH. Or if you're flying from Sarajevo to Western Europe, say, the Sarajevo-Bech map is cheaper, the cheaper the Vienna-Amsterdam map, or Vienna-Americana than Sarajevo-Bech. And if we're gonna keep paying this recklessly, uh, billing tickets, I don't see the need for such an agreement. If we're going to oblige the Council of Ministers to parallel with this agreement to even around the cards that, to be European standards, it would be good. And that's why you should have split this up a little bit and discussed these things a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9242	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. Let's take it in a row. Mr. Ekrem Ajanović, that is, excuse me. First came Mr. Okolić, Ekrem Ajanović and Azra Alajbegović. Ekrem picked up earlier. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9243	Dear Presidency, I'm going to make a technical proposal. Since we have 25 points to ratify, I suggest that we not go all individually, because we're going to waste a lot of time and that those points to which the remarks are being placed. So the ones we don't have any objections about, we go in the package, and the ones like we just had, here's the w) and I don't know which one, that we're going individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9244	Thank you, Mr. Okolić. Mr. Ekrem Ajanović. Let Azra Alajbegović prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9245	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to say my personal opinion, which is that I believe that, since it is a ratification of certain conventions and granting consent, I think 53 should go in the package because it is a huge material which has been combed, in the extreme line, by many instances in BiH. I particularly express my support for the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in the application of biology and medicine. A team before this Convention should not be made of any objections, and in particular there should be no objections from healthcare professionals. This earlier, the fair approach to healthcare explicitly states that it implies appropriate measures to.... provide a fair approach... (someone scraps on the microphone - short is heard) good quality, appropriate quality, and this is again all connected to the necessary and available means. So, there's nothing prejudged here that you have to do something that you don't have the resources to do, but when you have the means, it has to be access to all the people who live anywhere in this country, that they have the right to health care, justice, and in the end line, the same. Therefore, I am in favour of adopting today in a package of all consent, especially the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being, not to read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9246	Azra Alajbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9247	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that I am in favour of adopting this Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine for two reasons. The first reason is that Article 2 clearly states that it is the interest and well-being of a human being, who have priority over all other interests. And, in Article 3, what Professor Ajanović quoted, I'm not going to quote. What I decided to talk about after Professor Ajanović was Article 4, which is professional standards. As a doctor of medicine, I responsibly argue that in BiH, there are no protocols and guides throughout its area, these are therapeutic protocols, diagnostic protocols, therapeutic and diagnostic guides. The need for standardisation, providing health services is an imperative in BiH and health professionals and health professionals, have a lot of problems in their daily work. Article 4 says – any medical procedure including research must be carried out in accordance with relevant professional obligations and standards. Standards are something that exists everywhere in the world. We must also introduce them in health care and use the opportunity, therefore, to support this initiative, and I hope that the Council of Ministers and Ministry of Health of both entities will urgently adopt these standards in health care, in order to in some way not come into this situation that Mr Živković spoke about, especially as we have here many members who are required in medicine for clinical stages of research on medicines, and there is also a Article 24 in Chapter VIII – a violation of the provisions of the Convention, which says that the person who has suffered excessive damage resulting from an operation is afforded fair compensation, according to the terms and procedures of the prescribed law. So there could be sublegal acts, certain provisions, certain initiatives towards resolution ministries, and thus the BiH state would be protected from these situations that Mr. Živković spoke of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9248	Here, this is Mr. Živković. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9249	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm sorry that part of my colleague didn't understand the reason I answered. So it wasn't my reason not to bring this convention. I think it's misread. The reason is my concern that BiH is currently unable to comply with the provisions of this Convention and that more BiH citizens are allowed to sue BiH as a state for contempt of this Convention. We do not have laws on the protection of genomes in BiH, on how reproductive material can be used in BiH, we do not have a law on the disposal of parts of the body that can be operated, and the way it is delayed. We don't have much of what this convention in this part of a is about. On the other hand, I wanted to ask this Parliament to give our ministry a resolution, which is in charge of this topic, given that this convention in Article 36 leaves the possibility of a reserve, to ask them in one sentence in accordance with this Convention and this Article 36. says what BiH is not able to meet at this time and that we will work on it for the next year. Can we agree in this House that in such a way this situation will be resolved where this Convention allows us the possibility that, in accordance with Article 36, we, as a state, say in one sentence a reserve regarding this and our intention to respect it in due course. That's the difference between my reporting and the people who wanted to treat this matter from a medical point of view. I treated her from a medical but also from a legal and human point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9250	Thank you very much. The doctors helped us out a lot today anyway. Here you go, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9251	Members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, I understand my colleague Živković, I understand him perfectly, even when he does not speak the language of the profession, I understand him perfectly. I just want to draw attention to one thing. The fundamental human rights in BiH are being violated here, although we are all bound by the European Convention and the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. Does this mean that we were not to approach, or ratify, any international convention because we do not have the conditions for it. I mean, let's generalize now. I think, I fully respect my colleague Živković when he speaks in the language of the profession, what we do not have, or all the laws we do not have, whose implementation would mean full implementation, or consistent respect for the international convention. Especially about this convention when I'm talking. And I think that the ratification of this Convention can only be a stimulant to all of us, and especially to doctors in this House that as soon as possible, I don't know what laws should be passed, and here I see that my colleague Živković knows how to urinate with fellow Špirić, his party colleague and others in the Council of Ministers, to deliver these laws to us in parliamentary procedure as soon as possible. I think that the message of this Parliament in the sense of non-ratification of a convention like this would have a lot more negative effects than would have been the one my colleague Živković was talking about. That's one thing. Secondly, I suppose that fellow Halilović, although he understands himself perfectly and, of course, we can all talk about our impressions, especially the economic ones, when it comes to 55 international transport and communication with individual airlines, but I just want to say that this agreement does not happen to apply to an agreement with companies. I see here people who understand each other much better than my colleague Sefer and I do, but as far as I know about this agreement, the multilateral air transport agreement that governs one system in the area of the countries to which it relates, I have here a list of those countries, on the establishment of a European common aviation area. So it's not about, it's an environment for the functioning of various companies, and that's why our cards are expensive, etc. That's a different story. It is, companies are economic operators. We can once open a story on that subject. But what I'm trying to say is that this agreement doesn't just happen to regulate that problem. Besides, I think for clarifications here we can hear someone who's dealing with this a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9252	Thank you. Mr. Živković, wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9253	I really don't want to, uh, flaunt especially in a way that I have to correct the wrong allegation, the distinguished colleague Hadžiahmetović, for the simple reason that the topics are being replaced. So, the Charter of Human Rights, it didn't have a member of 46, which means reserves, but we could basically take it or leave it, here we ratify it. And in BiH, as we have the custom, and we want to, you know, with what much more developed countries are not giving up than we are, we think we've signed everything possible. Here we are being set up and left with the opportunity to say that every state and European community may, when signing the Convention... instruments of ratification, put a reserve on a particular provision of the Convention and that measure which some law in force on its territory is not in accordance with the provision, we have no law on that. Can we write in that sentence, please, we will accept this Convention, but our legislation has not yet done so, we intend to do so and that period to do this legislation. It's the only difference between what you said and what I'm proposing and it's not here in this House at all question whether this is going to be adopted and ratified, but the question is whether we're going to leave it to the Council of Ministers to put in this sentence that I'm proposing, which I think is good and to do it next time and don't say that we're not going to adopt anything. We're just trying to make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9254	Thank you very much. Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9255	I won't correct the wrong allegations. I hope I don't bend any real allegations. I don't think we have any other options, be careful, this is a convention, the negotiations are over, the full procedure is over and we're in a position to take or leave the convention. Not just us, but the Council of Ministers and the Presidency and everyone. This convention, as well as any other international agreement at this time, cannot be changed by any body of the BiH state. We can accept this or we can't accept it. We had this practice in the BiH Parliament, and it's just like that. Because it's done, so it's not just us, but it's up to the others who have prescribed this convention, this right now, this is even harder than if it were a bilateral contract, so this is an international convention, and you have to change the 56 whole system of values in the masses of other entities that make up that body to achieve what you want and what is proposed today. Therefore, I call on you, therefore, that, since nothing can change, to support ratification, we give consent to the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in the application of biology and medicine. No exception can be made against BiH. This is an international legal act that you accept or do not accept. Who are you joining or not joining? It would be ugly to send a message that we are not joining the club of the countries that adopted this Convention today, and I understand the reasons he was talking about, after all, here, which is what we're talking about here today, so BiH should once begin to create conditions, to be, in the end, this will make her do it. Here I am, therefore, for these reasons, so I call on you, however, in the package, not to see me here, uh, no question about any major discussion, to accept, to give consent and to have the Presidency ratify it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9256	Thank you very much. Is there any further discussion? Mr. Halilović. It would be good if someone, any of the proposings here, had any of the pronouns who could explain what this is about... Here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9257	This is just a short replica. If we join that free sky, then the price of tickets should be the same. And I understand, uh, the role of this Parliament, of the Council of Ministers, that we should protect the citizens, not let them yell at us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9258	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. Is there any further discussion? If there isn't, here's the deal, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9259	Mr. Džaferović said he would not, uh, spoil the wrong assumption that he would only say the right quote. However, it is our turn to try to agree whether we can adopt this Convention, to give the Council of Ministers the conclusion, yes, because it says here the reserves in Article 36 say that when signing or laying down instruments of ratification can be made to give the Council of Ministers an objection, that whoever submits these instruments of ratification in one sentence says the situation in BiH regarding the items that bind, can we make that conclusion when we adopt this Convention to declare here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9260	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Just in order. Dr Ajanović, Hadžiahmetović. Did you get that? Well, you've both given up on each other. I thought you both answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9261	I understand here what my colleague said and it is, it exists and it is written exactly in Article 36. Only until the end there is in that article the same sentence that says, based on this article is not allowed to place reserves on general... Therefore, there is no need to place on Article 3 a fair approach to health care. And there's no, there's no meaning, there's no need to make remarks, and when you sign it, it can be put down, if some laws are impossible at this point. Therefore, it does not prevent us from accepting this Convention at all. It doesn't stop, we can actually accept it today with everything, uh, rights and obligations and whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9262	You see, to be practical, let's try to bring an end. I'm not finished, Azra. Can I finish the sentence one, uh, I mean, if it's a rush, it's not a problem. So, let's bring this to an end. I don't mind that we today, of course, on the condition that we confirm today, or agree to ratify all these conventions, and that in one letter in front of the College, here, let's make a letter and say, we have ratified today, etc. So we warn you, or ask you, is it possible to get in touch, etc. To protect BiH's interests, it is no problem for me. If, of course, Mr. Živković agrees. Because you're an initiator. Let's finish this work with these conventions and bring this to an end. There's no need to move on. If Mr. Živković agrees.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9263	... says Parliament, I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9264	So, can we, and Mr. Živković, therefore, support this approach, to make a statement about these conventions. The only Mr. Sefer Halilović has shown the reserve but most, the vast majority in parliament, if it is ready in the package to plead. Let's get this straight, and we'll do this about this convention, ask for some clarification and see what can be done. Can we do that? Do you mind? There isn't. Please, I urge you to come forward in the ratification consent package. I have to read this again for the record. So, a) Agreement between the Ministry of Security of BiH and the Federal Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Austria on police co-operation, (b) Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Lebanon, (c) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Federal Government of Austria on the reading of persons who have an illegal stay, (d) Agreement on the Development Credit, the project restructuring of education between BiH and the International Association for Development, (e) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the arapski of Slovakia on the readmission of persons, (f) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Agreement of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovakia on Co-operation in the fight against crime, and in particular terrorism, illicit trafficking of narcotics and organised crime, (f) Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia (f) of Croatia on the FC) between the EU and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Džamahirija, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, So, sorry, sorry, just a little bit. Now, I urge you to plead. Vote now. I can conclude that by a large majority of votes with the existence of the entity majority, we have adopted, or have given consent to ratify all these agreements and conventions that I have read. And we're left with point 13 which, therefore, we're proposing a conclusion is either a club or a Mr. Lagumdžija? Jozo, shall we discuss this conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9265	If we're going to discuss this item of the agenda my formulation of the conclusion exists, if we need an explanation we can give.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9266	So we move to point 13, I remind you, it's a proposal for a conclusion. Here, let's see. The discussion was applied for, first Mr. Sefer Halilović, Dr. Ajanović, Mr. Bahtić. Is there more? Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9267	Well, I'm sorry, really, that we didn't understand each other. I expected you to first open a discussion about this package that we have now adopted, uh, to say one very principled thing. I think that now that this is all coming together, since I was, since I'm a member of this Foreign Affairs Commission, when this all comes together, about today we've given consent to a hundred million brand new loans. I don't think it should be so easy to get into these credit arrangements, especially if there's a fact that we know that we have an unbalanced balance, that we know that 5 to 6 billion marks go into the gray market, that we know a lot, that we know that
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9268	Mr. Halilović
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9269	And that we don't know, Mr. Belkić, and that we don't know how much we owe. There's just so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9270	In addition to all understanding, the point is over. You had your word, but here. Well, here, let's forgive you for being a little after those. So Dr. Ekrem Ajanović answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9271	I, I'm just going to discuss here some quotes that I think are practically tentacles, I mean, I support this conclusion completely but there's no point in a single state's parliament being declared under quotes of some bh. Sixes. It can be said of 60 BiH citizens. It can be said about the people who went there in front of BiH but certainly not about some bh. Sixers and I suggest that these quotes be changed, uh, with the word "citizens" of BiH in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9272	Thank you. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9273	Of course, I fully accept this proposal. It says here, in fact, Zlatko Lagumdžija, and as far as I can see, here today was the honourable MP Križanović. By saying that Zlatko Lagumdžija is the person most responsible for the fact that six BiH citizens are presently in the infamous Guantanamo camp. We should do everything by Parliament and the Council of Ministers to get rid of this process as soon as possible, but to know that Zlatko Lagumdžija is the most responsible person for this. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9274	Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9275	Let's get this straight first. I was the proposer of the agenda. And I called on what my colleague Lagumdžija proposed last session. So it's formal to clear up. Secondly, I accept the perfectly correct proposal of my colleague Ajanović. You can say that, it was the Algerian group, and I quite agree that we can accept that it was the six citizens of BiH. And finally to look back on this remarks by counterpart Bahtić. Look, we can open up a debate now about how much you want. The fact is that at the time 6 BiH citizens were legally, we believe, by the laws of BiH, delivered to the authorities. We can argue about it all you want. But knowing the fate of these BiH citizens now, we fully advocate that the state stand behind its citizens and do all that to reduce their suffering from an inhuman treatment that they now have. That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9276	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Is it a replica, Mr. Bahtić?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9277	Replic, replica. In my opinion, I've read it a little bit, I don't think everything is done by the laws of BiH. The House of Human Rights has reached a verdict to depecate those families. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9278	Thank you. Is there anyone else to discuss? Yes, Mr. Živković answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9279	Thank you, Chairman. I've suggested to the College that, since, in here, the report says that Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija predol (?). That we should have given the opportunity at the next session of the man to, on this issue, adequately inform us and Parliament, to see who sent whom, why and which is why and whose responsibility it is that the mistakes that were being made, this, are now being corrected. However, the debate was obviously opened without resolving any previous issues. Previous questions I'd like to know, and whether they're really, uh, bh. Citizens, does our citizenship confiscation commission have information that these are, uh, citizens of BiH and that the Council of Ministers is currently able to make a return plan. So I think it is much more appropriate for the conclusion that the Council of Ministers is tasked with considering the possibility of bringing BiH citizens back from Gvantanama prison and informing this parliament within a month. So that would be much more acceptable to us, given that we don't know these previous questions that we should have had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9280	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? If he doesn't, we're in the middle of the agenda, so the MPs from the SDP Club didn't absolutely consider it necessary to postpone this. Mr. Križanović is the promoter, agenda, I understand the need for these issues, however, not to comment, but just to remind that this House of Representatives has already reached a conclusion. I was in a discussion with Mr. Lagumdžija reminding him that there was no need for a new one, but we should look for what happened to him. But here's to honoring the procedure. We have two comments, so now I'm asking the promoter, practically, Jozo, can you take the part? Mr. Križanović, you have two initiatives, therefore, to replace the term bh. The six, appropriate term or Algerian group, or citizens, 6 BiH citizens or already some suitable term and this proposal to examine whether, therefore, instead of accessing the making and realisation of the road map for return, to enter an expression – examine the possibility of returning these people from Guantanamo, etc. So it's logical to hear what he thinks about these interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9281	Of course the Council of Ministers will
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9282	Let's not go into some big procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9283	Before that, consider the possibility. Of course... that's one phase, and the bottom line is to make some kind of concrete plan of what the ministry is going to do, what the Presidency is going to do about it. It's one ribbon that lasts already, I don't know, a year or two days is whether. And that's why I don't see any
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9284	It's three months.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9285	as a strict request of this conclusion to the competent institutions to do what is within their power.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-02-28-0.u9286	And as for this expression, of course, I agree. And what's that expression? What expression are we going to use? Okay, so, when it comes to this initiative by Mr. Živković, you feel there is no need. Now I'd have to go, uh, to the procedure. I, the man tried, but here's what we're going to say, so the text, the proposal for a conclusion with this correction, instead of bh. Six, the term "Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina". Who's in favor of accepting this conclusion? Here, at first glance there are generals and, in fact, we don't have an entity majority from Republika Srpska. Okay, here's what we can't, uh, coordinate. We'll leave an agreement for later, and we'll see if we can find a suitable solution, because obviously SNSD MPs are not, at the very least, against, uh, some conclusion. Here, this way we've exhausted the agenda. I thank you. Just a couple, please, please. So we'll match the Bayaze for three days. Just a few information, please. So, you will be very soon informed that we will have a session of House of Representatives on 15, so that is Thursday, and 16 will be a plenary session together with the House of Peoples where we will have the address of Oli Ren. The extended College, I am notifying club presidents, of course, the written invitation will go, will be on Wednesday, will be on Wednesday 7. So, sessions 15 and 16, extended college 7. You'll get calls and suggestions on the agenda. Thank you very much. The sitting's done at 2:00.
