ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u930	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the representatives, present members of the Council of Ministers, or officials from the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, respected colleagues and colleagues from the media, I warmly welcome you and open the 9th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the very beginning, I would express my personal satisfaction and believe the satisfaction of all of you that, after one very serious operation, our work and our regular activities were returned by Mr Tihić. There are 13 envoys present at the session. Of that, five in the Bosniak order, five in the order of the Croatian people and four in the order of the Serb people. The absence was justified by Mrs. Majkić. That's 14, sorry. For the 9th session you were presented with the proposed agenda. Let me just repeat it. 1. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 2. The adoption of the 8th session of the House of Nations; 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 4. Report from the Joint Committee on the text of the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education; 5. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Proposal for a Law on Radio and Nuclear Safety of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 6. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on criminal proceedings under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council of BiH under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 8 / 8 The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (High Representative Act); 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Procedure – Second reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 2 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Second Reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport – Second Reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration – Second Reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act – First reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 14. Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other grape and wine products – first reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of BiH – Law No: 01-02-9-47-1/07 of 12.9.2007 – First reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers - First Reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection – First Reading, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 18. Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 31.1.2007 to 31.7.2007, with the Proposal for Conclusions; 19. Proposal for a Joint Defence and Security Committee's conclusion: (a) to address the issue of small and light weapons and ammunition in BiH; (b) to address problems in the work of the BiH Border Police; 20. Confirmation of the appointment of Ljerka Marić as director of the Directorate for Economic Planning; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Economic and Technological Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece; 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on cooperation in the field of defence industry; 23. Giving consent to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Warsaw, 16 May 2005; 24 May 2005 Giving consent to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against human trafficking; 25. Granting consent to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering, Disclosure, Temporary confiscation and confiscation of profits obtained by criminal actions and on terrorist financing, Warsaw on 16 May 2005. So this is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples. I'm asking if anyone wants a word. No one. This agenda has been adopted, since there are no changes and additions. Moving to point one. That's: 3 Ad. 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions I do not have any parliamentary questions, therefore in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, because, under Articles 145 or 165 of our Rules of Procedure, it was necessary to deliver the matter in writing. If anyone does, then we'll accept it, if it's in writing. First we'll ask these MPs who got the answer. Mrs. Majkić's not here, so I'm gonna ask Mr. Šarab if he's happy with the answer he got? Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u932	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased only in part with the answer to the parliamentary question concerning the signing of the BiH-Serbian Orthodox Church Treaty. In fact, we had the conclusion here that the said contract was being discussed in this house right after, at the first next session, after his initialisation. Since the procedure was completed in August of the month and since our first next session was in September of the month, here we have been waiting three months for the initialisation of that contract here in the House of Peoples. So, I don't think the job is finished the moment the contract was sent to the Patrijaršija for signing. On the contrary, this whole procedure should have been followed to the end and tried to honor the conclusion that we adopted here. So much and thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u933	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. So there were no other answers. We are still waiting for a whole series of answers set up in this House by the Council of Ministers. I'm asking those present to submit that, here, who knows which times we cry for answers from the Council of Ministers. We're moving on to new representation issues. Is there? So I don't have them in writing. Mr. Šaraba, please deliver the text to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My... parliamentary question is: - When will the High Representative, Mr Miroslav Lajčak, carry out a review of the decisions to replace a large number of high-ranking officials who have been replaced by previous High Representatives, since so far against a large number of those persons, or almost all of them, have not taken any action? Reason: High Representatives in the previous period have removed more than 150 officials from office at various levels of government without taking any action against them, although the decision to replace them states that there is a reasonable doubt and concrete reasons. Since many of the reasons mentioned in the decisions have lost importance as well as the 4 fact that more than three years have passed since the replacement and that individuals who have been replaced have denied basic human rights, such as the right to work and live in very difficult conditions, I am asking this question, since the High Representative recently announced such a possibility while staying in Trebinj. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u935	Thank you very much. So this is a question, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, asked directly to the High Representative. Any more questions? Please deliver it in writing to the Secretariat, Mr. Šarab. Any more questions? I'm closing this item on the agenda and we're moving to point 2. It's "Ad." 2. The adoption of the 8th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate on the record. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate and putting the minutes of the 8th session of the House of Peoples on the table. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the record of the 8th session of the House of Peoples. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. Report by the Joint Committee on the text of the Proposal for a Framework Law on Preschool Education and Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u940	It's not a debate. It is likely that a mistake has been derailed, so the Croatian text says not eight but nine, but it is eight amendments. Well, that's just quoting it as, I mean, in Serbian, I don't know how I intervened there, I think it's eight in the text. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u941	Thank you very much. We got from the Secretariat a correction, which is why I didn't consider it necessary to inform you about it. Maybe that correction didn't get to you, but we've absorbed it at the club, and I believe you in your clubs. Does anyone else have anything to say about this report? If you don't, I'm putting the report you received from the Joint Committee. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against”? “against” one, “for” 13. I agree that by adopting this report, this law has been adopted in the same text in both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly and can be published. Point 6 is: Ad. Six. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure in BiH following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of our Rules of Procedure (It is about the Law of the High Representative) The House shall decide on a request for consideration of the law under this article after the debate. And I am opening a debate on this proposal for such a request procedurally by the Council of Ministers. Who wants a word? We know this is a debate and adoption without amendments. The amendments don't apply. So, after the debate, if we plead to the procedure, we will vote on acceptance, adoption of this law. Who wants a word, I ask more? No one. I'm closing the debate, putting it on the plea, so procedure. Yes, so we are now pleading on this: Are we going to consider this law under Article 122 without discussing amendments? Who's "for"? “For” is nine, “for” is 10. Who Is “against ”? ‘Non’ three. "Contained"? One. We've got the entity majority. The Rules of Procedure order us to try and make arrangements at the College. We don't have a consensus in college. It will be necessary, therefore, to put it back to the vote... this proposal and will pass the procedure if there are not two-thirds or more than two-thirds of the vote from one entity. I, therefore, only vote those who are “against”. 7 Who is “against” this request for this procedure under Article 122? “Contained”? Three. It's not two-thirds. We got the procedure and we're going to vote on this law now. Three, it's three? Is it three-two-thirds? Please, therefore, it takes four votes to make that happen; we got the procedure. We are now pleading, so we have made a statement on the procedure, we have a decision on the procedure under Article 122. Now, please, let's be clear about this law. Who is “for ” this law? That's 10 votes "yes". Who Is “against ”? "Non" four. So we have two thirds of one entity "against" and this law has not passed. Any objections to this finding that this law has not passed, Secretary? So, unfortunately, it didn't pass. Moving to point 7. Ad. Seven. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Judgment and Prosecutorial Council of BiH also following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure (this is also the Law of the High Representative)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u947	Well, here's the thing, since it's been suggested that these previous laws be considered by emergency procedure in Article 122, it says: When this request is discussed, it is voted. If adopted, the House continues to debate and vote on the bill. However, if no proposal is accepted for an examination of the draft law by emergency procedure, this is the position (4), House 9 decides whether the law will be considered in accordance with Article 121. So, is the law being considered by a shortened procedure or by regular procedure? We missed out on making a decision, on all these three laws. So, if we're going to consider them in a brief procedure or go into a regular procedure, then we need to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u948	Thank you very much. If I can give, if I can make one clarification: I didn't, we didn't ignore that provision. That provision is inadmissible in the application of laws that we cannot amend. So that is why we have completed the procedure, because the laws of the High Representative must be adopted in the same text without any change, and the shortened procedure implies a debate on principles, and then a debate on amendments, the investment of amendments, etc. So, it would be a waste of time, this is a mistake in the Rules of Procedure, and I, seeing that mistake in the Rules of Procedure, have simply resorted, therefore, to a cutback, apply only 122, that and the final decision of the House, about not wasting time, because we will come into an entirely identical situation. I have you, it's quite a proper legal view... of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, but it is legally unfounded to expect anything else from what the House has already decided. If you consider it a violation of the consequences of this decision at last, I will return to the vote of all three of these laws. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u949	You're right, but I think it must be determined that these laws no longer go into procedure, either by shortened or by regular procedure, because they were rejected on the basis of the Council of Ministers' proposal by emergency procedure, because it is the only possible way to pass these laws. I mean, it has to be established that we know they're gone in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u950	Thank you very much. I also found that the law did not pass in the first, second and third cases. So, knowing that this is an unscheduled provision, that this provision is inconclusive, it is dead when it comes to imposing laws by the High Representative. If that's the question, is it the same question about the same thing? I think we've absorbed this and we're moving on, if that's okay with you. So we realized that we did do it... rationally and that we saw in good time that this fake is this norm in the Rules of Procedure. We have now absorbed point 8 and here we have moved to point 9 and we should now do a second reading on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Procedure. We are having a debate today on amendments and voting. However, there was no amendment, I must inform you of it. You have received a report from the relevant committee and I am opening the debate, despite the fact that there has been no amendment. 10 If anyone wants anything about this, go ahead! Who wants a word? I conclude the debate, put on the statement of the bill on amendments to the Law on administrative procedure in the second reading. Who is “for ” this law? Who is “against ” this law? We're all, unanimously this law has been passed, I apologize. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is also a second reading We'd also be having an argument about the amendments... if there were any, they'd be gone. The House of Representatives has adopted... this law in identical text and adopted one, one amendment. We had on the Committee an amendment that was accepted in identical form. So there were no new amendments. I'm opening the debate. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea and this bill of law that was passed by the House of Representatives. Who's "for"? There is no one against it. So we also adopted this law unanimously under number 10. It's under 11: Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport, that's also the law in the second reading, is proposed by the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u954	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to point out one observation: that the Council of Ministers had been a little unserious, we should have done this job a little differently. Namely, what it's about. So, at this point in the agenda, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration and that is a second reading. It is a law that does not make up a section of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the premium in the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. So one organisation unit from one ministry is organised into another ministry. This law was laid down by the Council of Ministers on 5.7 and processed by 16.7 and 17.7. came into the procedure in the Parliamentary Assembly. We know that there was no Parliament's work in August, and then the Council of Ministers on 12.9., so on 30.8th of the 20th session, but it processes it on 12.9., and it also passes it to Parliament, and also the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry of Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration, so that in the new law, the same law, the border police, the State Police for Investigations and Protection and the Service for Foreign Affairs, is placed in the membership of the Ministry of Security as an administrative organisation. And basically, nothing is controversial, but technically it's not okay that we have two laws in a short period of time, is it? This could all have been handled by one law, because we will have by the technology of working with laws, adopted now, if Bog does, this law, so it will have to be published, and then, in a very short time, we will have again the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration and I don't think it was technically necessary: to pay attention to such things next time, to process them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u955	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. I think you're absolutely right and your remarks I think they've absorbed a gentleman from the Council of Ministers and we'll keep an eye on these things in the future. Here, I got a kimohead to watch out for. Thank you very much. 12 Just one more piece of information. The House of Representatives therefore adopted this law in the same text. I'm not closing the debate. I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? I'm closing the debate. He doesn't want anyone else. We're approaching the plea. Please let us be clear about the proposal for this law. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? “Contained”? We unanimously accepted this bill. It's 13. Ad.13. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act – First reading You've received a proposal from the commission. The Commission therefore discussed the necessity of the adoption of this law and the principles. It has accepted the principles of this law. The House of Representatives also adopted this law in its first reading. I'm opening the debate. Who wants a word? Things are very clear, changes aren't big. He doesn't want a word. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? We're all for it. So, unanimously this law was passed in the first reading. It's under 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other products of grapes and wine – first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u960	Okay. We've been on the committee to discuss this bill. It's about amendments to the Law on Police Officers. Given the matter, it is extremely interesting, however, there were no objections to the proposed amendments and additions, given the opinions collected in relation to this law by authorised representatives of all police agencies, from international agencies overseeing the work on this sector. Furthermore, we have received the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration on the full compliance of the draft law with EU legislation and these have been a good reason to accept the principles in the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the laws and to forward the text offered as a whole to Parliament. So much for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u961	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Rančić, come in. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u962	Mr. Chairman, therefore, it is a law we are considering in our first reading and we will uphold the principles of this law. What I would like to clarify with the resolution ministry, with a representative, if there is a resolution ministry, is the question of assessing the work, the trial work of police officers who are in the rank of a police officer or a junior inspector on probationary work in this ministry. So, I would like to make clear whether there is and what is the methodology and principles of assessing the current within these agencies and whether it is necessary and necessary – and in relation to Article 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing this law which amends and introduces probationary work – is it necessary to prescribe a new methodology or a new regulation that will assess police officers and junior inspectors on probationary work? This is prescribed in Article 63, in the new Article 63, i.e. in Article 7 of this Law, and I would not like it if, when we adopt the law, we remain in doubt and leave these new colleagues free to evaluate these direct superiors who will assess the success of their work, because it depends on whether they will pass and build a working relationship indefinitely, so for a permanent period, or whether they will be interrupted after a poor assessment of their trial work. It would be good, then, to clarify this question. If it is not clear that in the amendment phase, it is prescribed that the minister,...is to adopt a methodology, or a rule based on which objectively or as objectively as possible, will assess the probationary work of police officers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u963	Thank you very much. We heard a specific question. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u964	Mr. Chairman, I propose that the House of Nations adopt one conclusion today, which is: that the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, asylum and ethics be bound to declare that law. Why do I feel it necessary to declare this law to the Commission, since Article 33(b) defines that personal data will be collected and used, and the cases in which personal data will be used at some of the following stages, I believe it is necessary to declare this law and that commission, since the use of these data will be in some of the following stages, which I believe is necessary, since this Commission is dealing with these cases. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u965	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? So we have two suggestions here. Actually, one question, one suggestion. The question is: that one of our security officials, I don't know if there's anyone present here, to answer to a respected colleague, Rančić, in relation to his question about the evaluation of the probationary work of police officers. Here, you have your word, gentlemen of the Department of Security. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u966	My name is Munib Isaković, and I come before the Ministry of Security. I participated in the Commission's work on making changes and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of BiH. As for the remarks of Mr., the esteemed Mr. Rančić, I can say that we will look at this... your remark, but I can say that from the experience that I am familiar with: that an objective evaluation of all cadets is carried out during the final evaluation of the completed training. So I said very briefly what the question is and this will be forwarded to the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u967	Thank you very much, Mr. Isaković. So, you were and were not satisfied with the answer, you will have the opportunity to intervene on that law in the second reading, in the amendment phase. What he has put as a problem for Mr. Šaraba to consider in the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Asylum and Ethics, etc., what we have in that long name and it makes sense. But, of course, we have a strictly regulated issue of using official records and all data, we have a law that regulates it, and I don't know if it would be appropriate to return it to the Joint Commission. I'm opening the debate, so with this note, in relation to the question asked by Mr. Šaraba. Here you go, sir. Dr. Crescent. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u968	Just for a little while. I don't think the commission has a score. Is everything in line with her aspect of the action. I don't think he can get in the way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u969	Thank you very much. Here, we heard this court too. Mr. Zrna, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u970	...to the second session and second reading of this law. I think that's what Mladen meant.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u971	...to obtain the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights until the second reading, but to deliver that opinion to the relevant committee to discuss amendments, which you will possibly invest in this law. Mr. Šarab, here you are, sir. I'm not closing the debate, and I'm asking other MPs if they have their own judgment on this. So, you heard what Mr. Ivanić said, you heard 16 of what Mr. Zrna said, so one question implies sending it. So you don't mind hearing their opinion. The second is concrete: to get the position of the Joint Commission for Human Rights until the second reading. Is that acceptable to you? If it's acceptable, I ask someone else, I ask, they'll get an opinion. So the opinion can be positive, it can satisfy the MP, it can not satisfy, they will give their judgment. The opinion of the Human Rights Commission can and may not come, may or may not come, may be positive, may be negative, and it is non-binding. I propose that we declare this law in the first reading and inform, therefore, that we send, with this conclusion to the Joint Committee on Human Rights and this law: to show and deliver an opinion to the relevant committee, which is the Constitutional and Legal Commission of our home. Who is in favor of accepting this law in the first reading compared to this conclusion? I agree that we have unanimously accepted this conclusion that this bill is sent to the Joint Committee on Human Rights and has asked that it give us the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which is relevant to this law... within as short a time as possible to have it, before it is discussed in the amendment phase. Moving to point 17. It's "Ad." 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection – First reading You have received a report from the Commission that has accepted the principles of this law. At the same time, I must inform you that the House of Representatives has adopted this law in the first reading. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Mr. Zno.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u973	I will, in front of this committee, perhaps even personally, warn of some things when it comes to this law. We have accepted the principles, but we have assumed that this law is likely to cause quite a debate in Parliament, because these amendments and amendments of the law are affecting the rather important issues of the legislation so far: the functioning of the Agency or the SIPA, as we say. I'm going to point to a few elements, I'm not going to bring up a court, but I'm just going to point out a few essential elements that change... the essence of the existing Law on the State Agency. First of all, the first problem is the specificity of the business carried out by certain civil servants in SIPA and their equalisation with the jobs carried out by police officers. It's not foreseen by the existing law. This is not provided for by the existing State Service Act, nor by the SIPA Act. It's mostly about equating on a material giving plan, the question is logical, who and how can decide on this problem. We have touched this into a rather sensitive 17 thing that can cause a chain reaction of all other similar agencies and the security sector, so this is one of the key issues that will be raised in the consideration, of course in the second reading of this law. Furthermore, another problem here is proposed to conduct a future public tender for the reception of civil servants that a public tender is being conducted by SIPA, instead of the BiH Civil Service Agency. This certainly reduces the time limit, shortens procedures, but the Law on civil servants implies an existing procedure. Third question, which concerns the harmonisation of provisions relating to the appointment of directors and deputies. We know that the appointment of the director and his deputies is carried out by the Council of Ministers on a proposal to amend and supplement the police officers. From now on, the Council of Ministers would appoint only the head of the SIPA and the director of the SIPA would forward the assistants to certain tasks, in particular to directors of the Crime and Investigation Department, instead of the Council of Ministers. And the fourth question, the so-called question. Special cash registers. So, the internal register that will be used, I don't know how many are foreseen in the law, are envisaged, but how much effective monitoring mechanisms are envisaged, i.e. use, and so on. Special cash registers. So much, with the principles of this proposal being accepted, to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u974	Thank you very much, Mr. Zno. Here, we heard the views of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u975	Mr. Chairman, therefore, with the support of everything stated by the President of the Defence and Security Commission, I would like, therefore, only a few more sentences on these matters. Therefore, neither I, nor the Defence and Security Commission, dispute the salary increase of any police officer or of any of the senior officers in that particular position, but the essence is that the funds, whether they are salaries for police officers or funds for special purpose, for a special cash register, must be controlled in several ways, both by the Office for Audit and by the competent working body, by this Parliament, and certainly by internal control. Not perhaps in the jurisdiction of this now existing, whether, internal controls, it might be necessary to form a special body or a special team to institutionalise, to control the spending of these funds for a special purpose. Of course, someone will say that in Article 4. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law states that funds from the specific purpose programme for the settlement of specific needs, especially for the collection of criminal and intelligence data and information, can be used in accordance with the rules governing public expenditures and specific regulations adopted by the Director. Someone will say, here, in accordance with regulations that regulate public expenditures, but there's this thing that a certain rule or act is passed by a director. And what does that mean? That it may declare these means, means of use, use, control, etc. under a certain type and degree of secrecy, 18 and close the possibility of control by external audits or, I do not know, competent committees of Parliament etc. That is why I propose that this issue must be settled institutionally in order to control the spending of these funds. When it comes to pay increases, the only one, I have no arguments, so we don't argue, but it's just saying: some jobs are specific. Weren't these jobs specific a year and two and three years ago when the law was passed? All these jobs are specific. We do not dispute this need and the possibility to do so in this agency, but only with a little more reasons and to the competent commission and Parliament. When it comes to the appointment of these two important associates, the director and his deputy, it is about assistants for the Criminal and Investigation Department and assistant director of the Department of Internal Control. The first thing is what's very badly normized in this law, and that's in Article 5. The Law amending and supplementing the Law, which states that Article 9(3), the Assistant Director of Directors, is to be deleted: in addition to the Assistant Director for the Criminal and Research Department and Assistant Director for the Department of Internal Control, which... is appointed by the current regulation, is the Council of Ministers. So here it says to erase that jurisdiction. And then, in transitional terms, in a kind of weird way, this thing is further explained, so I'll read it to you. This is Article 12. The Act amending and supplementing the Law, which states that a new Article 26a is added to Article 26(a) which reads as follows: The term of office of the person who, on the day of entry into force of this Act, carries out the function of assistant director of the Criminal and Investigation Department cannot be renewed and cannot last longer than the period prescribed in Article 7(3). Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, "Official Messenger" etc. The duration of the term of office will be calculated from the date on which the Assistant Director first assumed the post. The normation in this way means and it can be clarified that something out there is wrong with this assistant for the Criminal and Investigation Department, as well as with the assistant for this internal control, and there is more to be forbidden that they are exactly... professionally performing these duties. This is how it comes to me from the interpretation of this new article 26a). Additional arguments, when it comes to internal control as a very important segment of this institution. The logical thing would be that in that internal control is subject to everything within the Agency. Well, therefore, both personally and functionally, in terms of business. If so, and should be so, then it is not logical for the Director to appoint his assistant for internal control which should be controlled by both the Director and all other personal and all processes within that institution. I'd be an advocate, because I don't see why, why these two men, why they're not being prevented from doing this duty, so this isn't enough just for a member, a former member of this law... that says it's no longer in the power of the Council of Ministers, but it's just the two of them that are being banned. It is not logical to keep this solution in this law and I would like it to remain an existing solution, which is that these two assistants are appointed by the Council of Ministers, because I see nothing in the light of this law. And I would also like to perhaps conclude, or perhaps, through my discussion, that in order to accept these discussions, here by the House of Nations, it would be good for the Council of Ministers to go with amendments to this law, in the spirit of our today's debates and our Commission for Defence and Security, and here by fellow Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u976	Mrs. Čolo, please. Thank you, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u977	Please, Chairman, I'd like a moment. Mr. Rančić said he saw nothing in the explanation regarding this provision, which is very delicate as regards the mandate of these two assistant directors in the transitional provisions. I don't know if anyone here has anything in front of the Ministry of Security, but here the official motion of this law is the Council of Ministers. The explanation must contain an explanation of the legal solutions proposed. When it comes to Article 12 of that argument, there is no one here. There is no reason why such a provision is proposed which is very delicate and this explanation would help us MPs to know why the Council of Ministers has proposed it. Because, according to the Single Rules of Law, it is the obligation of the legislator to explain any proposed solution. It's obviously left out here, and I don't know why it's left out, and it would help me as a delegate to determine whether such a solution is correct and whether it should be accepted. So just to keep quiet about something that's very delicate and that's important, I think it's very important in this law and it's unacceptable. And I, if the gentleman who was in front of the Ministry of Security is a reporter under the previous law, ask him for an explanation – why did they leave it out, if he is authorized today to report to us on this law as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u978	Thank you very much. We've heard this opinion, too. I don't think there's a need for an authorised representative of the Council of Ministers here. I'm not closing the debate. Wait a minute, I'm not closing the debate, but we've heard mostly about the particulars of the amendment and supplemental proposal. So it's not about opposing, so the principles on which the amendment and supplementation is based, I apologize, just to finish. Therefore, there are mainly comments on the concrete solutions offered in the amendments and additions. And what Mr. Rančić said would eventually be asked by the Council of Ministers to submit the amendments, so the Council of Ministers is asked to submit amendments to the amendment and additions it has only delivered to Parliament. So, I think we can... we can rule it out and we can overcome it in a way that after the first reading, we will not plead in the second reading, given the numerous observations, but that the relevant committees, the commissions, therefore, are seriously considered at that commission stage. We are allowed not only to act on the proposal to amend and supplement that we have received, but to act on the basic text, you know. There is nothing to prevent us from acting on the basic text and you are absolutely right, Mrs. Čolo, there is no, there is an article 11, but the article 12, which you were talking about, has no reason. You're looking for a word again, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u979	Please, if we adopt this law today in our first reading, the amendment phase follows. So in order to react, I need to know what the promoter wanted with this member and I don't know what he was being run, because that's what's important for the purpose of interpreting this provision. So 20 of what the promoter, the one who prepared this law, wanted and what led him to prescribe such a provision. I can't do it unless I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u980	Yeah, yeah, you're right and I think it'd be good if you accepted it. Therefore, you are proposing to conclude that the Council of Ministers should be asked to provide an explanation for the amendment and supplementation of Article 12, further to obtain this until the commission phase, i.e. until the hearing phase in committees. I think that's quite rational. Do you need to say something now? My colleague wants it in writing. So it won't satisfy her. So, I suggest, if no one is answering for the word anymore, that we accept this conclusion, that, in this case, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers, the written explanation of the legal procedure in Article 12, which is why he resorted to that solution until it begins, and that is immediately, until it begins, therefore, the commission phase of the debate on the details of the amendment and addition of this law and at the same time, so that the debate is exhausted with this conclusion to adopt this law in the first reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted in the package a proposal for this conclusion and this law in the first reading. Thank you very much. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u981	So, here I am asking that it be understood and related to our discussion and Mr. Zrn as the chairman of our committee, and also to these two that I have presented: I would ask the Council of Ministers, the Resort Ministry, to deliver the answers. Well, let's say, about these internal and external controls of the spending of these funds provided for by this law. Because this is how it stays open to us. It is said in this law: under existing regulations. That's right. We have an audit. However, if that regulation that the Director is to adopt, it is declared to be a certain type and degree of secrecy, and, these people, external audit, cannot, of course, be given the authority to control it, then it remains closed within the firm without parliamentary supervision and control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u982	I fully understood your observation that the funds spent for special purposes can be subsidized and that they are practically not subject to review of the audit, therefore, as well as any other items spent on any of the users of the budget and any of the institutions in BiH. But it's an amendment that can be fixed, so. I don't think so, if you're satisfied with one of their interpretations. Please, I don't mind, we'll make that conclusion. But it's a far better quality amendment repair... before the second reading here. If you don't mind? Thank you very much. 21 So we accepted that first conclusion and this bill in the first reading. We move to the next item of the agenda, that's point 18. Ad. 18. Report on the work of the State Commission on the review of decisions on the naturalisation of foreign nationals in BiH for the period from 31.1.2007 to 31.7.2007, with the proposal for conclusions So we're having a discussion about the report and the conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u984	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Gentlemen co-chairmen, distinguished fellow envoys, I have been given the assignment today, here in front of the House, to present what you are or nearer to explain, what you in writing have obtained. However, because of the importance of this job, we are very important to say which sentence is also here when such an important report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Introduction of Foreign Citizens to Citizenship of BiH, which... has been authorised by the Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the Parliamentary Assembly to consider. It should first be concluded that this work commission, for the introduction of foreign nationals into BiH, is an audit, is... an extended mandate for a while, which is until March next year. Secondly, it is important to say that this commission is obliged twice to submit its reports to the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly and to other bodies and bodies that take care of this issue. Our commission has been pleased to conclude that this committee, the State Commission for the Review of Decisions, has worked extremely extensively, sensitively and that all work...on whose work... will depend on many things in BiH and its further path to European integration and that in doing so, this commission is extremely well doing its job. Secondly, what we are saying is that what has not been wrong in its work on the Convention on Human Rights and its protocols of the European Convention. But what is extremely important: we want and want to stress that this commission in its work has faced a number of problems and these problems have resulted in a proposal for conclusions adopted by our committee and proposed that the House do the same. The problems related to the lack of written documents on the settlement of BiH citizenship cases, following the end of the mandate of previous commissions. There is no record of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the application for the assignment of citizenship, the lack of orderly records in the letter of the Ministry of Civil Affairs on cases dismissed from previous commissions,... the problem of replacing the old members... of the State Commission. In line with that, you have six conclusions here, that I would not quote them, and they are going towards a better quality work of the Commission and, on the other hand, an invitation to those who need to cooperate with this commission, which are legally binding, are called upon to do so really in a hasty and quality way. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u985	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Dr. Crescent. Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u986	My proposal is to add, in conclusion, 6 more: to provide this information to the competent judicial authorities in order to make possible assessments of those who gave citizenship unlawfully to assess whether their responsibility exists or not. So, just to be completed: in addition to the competent ministries and the competent judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u987	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Ljubičić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u988	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the presidency, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I just want to join the discussion and Mr. Jović, as a member of the Commission who discussed this report or this report. I would also like to propose to and from this home that this commission be declared, because I would like to point out that we have had... a sensitive and important debate on this committee and, as Mr Jović said, we already have several times, and at this session, reports on the work of this commission. I am sure we are all aware of the sensitivity of this issue for BiH and the problems this commission is dealing with. On the Commission, I think, and secondly, when we discussed several of these reports, that this commission has done its job extremely professionally every time, and this time, and I would like to and I would like to propose to accept the finding here and here by members of the House of People and that it is one of the... commissions that shows how certain issues should be done in... this country. I have presented my one reaction to the Commission and I want to bring it out here again. I think that is how we reacted at this session, too, in part of the conclusions that are repeated, and in part Mr Jović said so. For me, it is unacceptable and unacceptable that again, in this report, it appears here, look: there is a commitment between the competent institutions and other authorities in BiH to the State Commission as soon as possible, in accordance with the law, to deliver the previously requested documentation relating to the subject matter of the audit. In the previous report, we have had something similar, one of these, one of the findings and demands and conclusions towards the competent institutions in BiH that do not meet and do not carry out their obligations on this matter and again, simply as a man and as a member of the Commission, I react to this finding. For me, it's really unacceptable and inadmissible... that we have in the state, so state authorities, institutions, and that they refer to this issue in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u989	Thank you very much, Mr. Ljubičić. Mr. Tihić. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u990	I also accept the report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens of BiH in this period, as foreseen by the Opinion of Conclusions, with the fact that the proposal for a conclusion under 4. is not clear enough or perhaps needs to be specified. He says: It is proposed that the Ministry of Civil Affairs conduct an insight into the archives of the ministry within 60 days and set out all the items, records of persons originating in the area outside the former Yugoslavia, as well as persons from the Yugoslavia and to whom it is bh. citizenship allocated to naturalisation. ......... They are the same subject of the audit, and within that deadline the State Commission shall report on the number of cases. My question is whether this applies only to the Ministry of Civil Affairs or to other ministries that existed in entities and cantons,... which did the assignment of citizenship, you know, because we know that it was regulated differently. The Ministry of Civil Affairs exists only after the Dayton Agreement, and the citizens that are subject to the revision are before the Dayton Agreement and have been awarded by other institutions. So, is there a revision of these citizenships here? It is one and none whether an extension of the commission's mandate is foreseen. So, would the Commission now be in charge of reviewing these citizenships, because I'm a little unclear at this point 4. It's just like more than one question, so, in response, then eventually.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u991	So we heard this question. It might be good, therefore, to hear the position of officials from the Council of Ministers. Please, just introduce yourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u992	I thank you, Chairman. I'm a member of the State Commission for the Audit of Naturalised Citizens. My name is Ermin Pešto. Like this, I will answer Mr. Tihić's question specifically. We are... so this is a mandate that has been extended for the second year to this commission. Since the beginning of the term of office, we have divided our work into two parts. So it's an audit of these cases, i.e.... citizens who are naturalized, and from the area are outside the former SFRY and review of the case, so citizens who are naturalized from the area of the former SFRY. From the beginning of the Commission's work, we, under quotes, have been looking for cases. So some institutions in this country have adequately established records, some have kept them properly, and some have not. So, a concrete answer to Mr Tihić's question: this applies, means this conclusion, only to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, because, perhaps a few months ago, we sent a letter to all ministries and competent institutions that assigned citizenship and warned them that if by a certain date they did not deliver the documentation we ask them to believe that they had handed over all the cases to the Commission and that practically in their own, they do not have any more files. What did we ask the Department of Civil Service for this file? We've been looking for reasons to find out that their archives have, I don't know, now I can't tell you by heart, a certain number of items that they haven't delivered to us. I have as much information as I do: the Minister of Civil Affairs has formed a commission that will take down an insight into their archives and submit the cases to the Commission for review. So we have knowledge that there are one number of 24 objects that are naturalized outside the former SFRY, and so are the people who are meaning from the area of the former SFRY. As far as the second question is concerned, the Commission, you know, under the law has a mandate to audit all persons naturalised on 1st and 6th April 1992 to 1st January 2006. So that's what this norm covers all faces, means both outside the former SFRY and from the area of the former SFRY. We are currently preparing one piece of information for the Parliamentary Assembly, given that this law obliges us to provide information to Parliament at least twice a year, and in this information we will say that we have completed the first part of... of our task, which is the revision of these citizens outside the former SFRY, and now we are following this job around, to say, these citizens within the former SFRY. Since that, you will agree with me, a little specific question, so we have the law giving us that mandate, we, as a commission, could practically, after the end of our mandate, ask to extend the mandate, because we have a legal basis but we will nevertheless ask, probably from Parliament and the Council of Ministers, a position on the matter, because it will probably be a much larger number of cases, and so far we have reviewed 1,300 cases outside of the former SFRY and we have the knowledge that surely the least, I should say, ten thousand are cases outside the former, within the former SFRY, etc. This will require a much longer mandate from the Commission if, therefore, the work of the Commission is extended and, in this information, we will ask for Parliament to be... manifested. There is a legal obligation, but since there are a large number of items,...it will require our much longer, longer work for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u993	Thank you very much, Mr. Pešto.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u994	After this answer, I agree that, despite what you asked, it is in conclusion that it is not proposed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, but rather asked the Ministry of Civil Affairs and all other competent authorities, which have granted citizenship during this period, to deliver all documents. Once again, it's the conclusion of this home.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u995	Well, I agree with your proposal with the fact that the legal obligation, Article 40, is there now I don't know by heart, states that all authorities are obliged to provide the Commission with the information that it requires of them. So, we're [[Common discussion]] We're rounding up the process and this is the final phase. Whoever doesn't deliver to us at this point, we'll think that he's, I say, kept the cases, that he didn't deliver it to the Commission for review. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u997	Thank you very much, sir. Sure, go ahead, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u998	One question until the gentleman left. I would like to refer a little bit to this proposal for a conclusion Mr Ivanić said: that it is in the proposal for these conclusions to include the conclusion that this information is provided to the BiH Prosecutor's Office for the purpose of taking appropriate measures under the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u999	Exactly: he told the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1000	Is it just like that... against the responsible persons who assigned these citizenships. I am interested, we adopted that conclusion when we considered your previous report, which was until 31 January 2007, from 1 March 2006 to 31 January 2006. The report, if I am not mistaken, lists the names of those who participated in the assignment of these citizenships. In this report, you left it out. I'm interested in why, and if this report is to be delivered to the competent judicial institutions, I think it's better that those names stand, it means an authorised official who took part in the decision on the assignment of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1001	Thank you very much. A concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1002	Well, here, I'll answer you. I don't see any reason... why it wasn't delivered in the report, but I don't see any reason to stand it in the report. ... It is now co-operation, to say the Commission and these competent authorities, or to be supplied by the Commission of data to the competent authorities, in accordance with these conclusions, so... if you think this should be delivered,... we will deliver it another time but we had no particular reason why we did not... re-deliver the names to the Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1003	Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1004	I'm interested in why you gave those names in your previous report. So, what reason was that, and now those names are gone? Has anyone, perhaps, subsequently intervened that these names no longer appear in the report, because what is now a report of the same work in different periods, but one is in one methodology and the other is in the other. I'm interested in the reason why. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1005	Well, you see, there's no reason that, so we don't have any pressure on any side, in the sense that we leave out the names in this report. The only reason it might be is because these are the same names as the first report. We have circled the procedure... we have reviewed that part of the case outside the former SFRY and more or less are all the same names, so the persons who are in the same term of office in this period for which we have mandated citizenship. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1006	Thank you very much, Mr. Pešto. We're clear. So, you, MPs, can insist on a conclusion which will also include institutions and names in those institutions that participated in the assignment of citizenship. So, that's something... that we're going to plead on. It's not necessary to keep the man behind the pay phone for that. So, we're having a further discussion on the report and we've already finished and touched two points of conclusion, of a total of six containing this report. We're having a debate, so maybe we should end the discussion of the conclusions contained in this report and get to the bottom of this. Do you, Mrs. Čolo, stay on the proposal to get involved in the Report, therefore, what was in the previous report, and these are the names, therefore, or persons who worked, were responsible in the institutions that assigned citizenship. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1007	I'm not insisting, because I didn't ask for it, I was just asking for an answer why this report was now done in a different way than the previous report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1008	If you're satisfied with the answer, then let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1009	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1010	Thank you very much. So, we, we, I have so far, have carefully followed the debate: so far two revisions of the conclusions, so that can be different from what will possibly be accepted in the House of Representatives. That hasn't happened at the House of Representatives yet, and we have time to send them the repairs of those conclusions. ... in point 4 of the conclusion and point 6 of the conclusion. In point 4, it is proposed, says the Ministry of Civil Affairs, Mr Tihić proposes to all other institutions that assigned citizenship, that within the deadline, etc. So that would be a supplement. 27 And Mr Ivanić asked in point 6, says: A report in the form of information should be delivered to all the resolution ministries and added to the relevant judicial authorities that led, etc. So, this -- is that it? So please, with these additions, these two points.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1011	It's just, excuse me, a little supplement. This applies to the responsible authorities who led the proceedings, and then, after that sentence, add it to the judicial authorities after that, because if you put it: the judicial officers, they did not lead it, you understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1012	We'll add beyond the procedure and beyond the word procedure. _________(?) Behind BiH. [[Common discussion]] And made decisions on the assignment of citizenship
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1014	Now, here are the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1015	Behind BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1016	Behind BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1017	Yeah, okay. Here, it's all clear now. Are there any other... suggestions for some additions, any corrections to these conclusions? Or it was: the proposal to boast, therefore, in the end,... the seriousness of this commission's work, which I don't think is disputed. I'm glad I'm a member of that committee, too. I therefore place the report in the proposed text and the conclusions in the corrected text of point 4 and point 6 as proposed. Who's "for"? I find that, unanimously in the package, we accepted the report and these conclusions corrected in the way we said, in points 4 and 6. Moving to point 19. That's 28 Ad. 19. Proposal for a Joint Defence and Security Committee's conclusion: - to address the issue of small and light weapons and ammunition in BiH and - to solve problems in border police work You've reached the Committee's report. We will give our word to Mr. Zrn and at the same time inform you that the House of Representatives has adopted the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. But here's to Mr. Zrn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1019	Okay. Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I won't read, it doesn't make any sense, this proposal concludes. I wish you'd all read it, and I'd like these conclusions to stay in one... in the press in this country for the simple reason that we finally have to recognise objectively, I think, the biggest security problem in this country, and that's the problem of excess ammunition, and, only after that, this weaponry. 35,000 tons of ammunition in this country is called unstable ammunition, meaning ammunition that can at any moment cause what unfortunately happened in Slovakia, and then, unfortunately, it happened in Paracina. We can't stop it. It's ammunition that's beyond all possible standards. Secondly, we need to get to know the general public, meaning the citizens of this country, all the people in this country -- what kind of danger it is to them, or what kind of danger it is to us. And based on such conversations with the most responsible persons from the international community – UNDP, EUFOR, OSCE, OHR, foreign ambassadors – all security services of our home, defence ministries, the Ministry of Security and the relevant services, based on, meaning, such and these guided talks, especially in Jahorina 2nd and 3rd, on one workshop, 2nd and 3.7th, we have made up a list of... these conclusions. We have to simply engage the entire public. This is why: the fact that the UNDP and others who are handling the process of removing and destroying this danger are planning, according to our current estimates, that this process takes place in Doboj and Vogosca, means in places where the ammunition is being destroyed, this process could take nearly 20 years more. Is this country sure that it can suffer, or be held hostage by such a security threat for the next 20 years or so? There are exits, there are solutions, we guarantee that we have capacities, we absolutely have capacities that we just need to invest a little bit. There is also money waiting on the accounts – an English donation – which can only be used to use all of these, which, which are referred to the proposals of these conclusions, is hired and speeded up to do their part of the job. And according to our worst estimates, this process would have to be completed maximum in the next five years. So that's why this proposal was made, I don't know, if anyone has anything to add to the existing conclusions, I'm asking him to add. But I think we've been taking care of the problem here and the institutions that need to be involved in a quick solution to this problem. I hope you've all thoroughly read these conclusions. That's when it comes to ammunition and this small and light weaponry. 29 As far as small and light weapons are concerned, this process is going a little faster and more logically: here we have Jelšingrad, we have these solvents, or ironworks, and this problem is easier, but it does not pose such a direct danger as it represents, it represents huge amounts of this insecure ammunition. The second proposal for a conclusion was to address the problem in the Border Police. Border police, we know, I'm not gonna tell a story about what it is. I believe that colleagues who were before us two days ago and in Germany we were praised by the statement of the Ministry of Security that we are following financially and training the process of first setting up DGS, and continue to monitor the functioning of the Border Police, in terms of moving these European border security, security situations to our borders. But objectively, there are problems that need to be resolved. Here they are engaged in several items. The first is management and management of border crossings. That's the problem the Council of Ministers has to deal with. Further, adequate accommodation of border police at border crossings. This also implies the state of border crossings. We can deliver a full report on the state of all border crossings, we've visited them all, but along with the Border Police, if that's necessary to supplement this report and the proposal for conclusions. Further, personnel coverage. It happens that border police personnel leave the Border Police and usually cross over to the SIPA, because the conditions in which the Border Police operate are slightly different from the conditions in which people work in other security agencies and I will not tell the complex, but in any case, the difficult and state of material-technical equipment. So much for me and the Commission that did this, this job, not thanking the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1020	Thank you very much, Mr. Zrna, for this very comprehensive report which is quite clear, therefore, but it is both precise and slightly wider in the report of the Commission that we have received. And I believe that you share my opinion that this is a very serious security issue both for the state and for the citizens of BiH and under the conclusion of the sub-b). I'm asking who wants another word? Mr. Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1021	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I wanted only... in principle to support these conclusions, only under point 6 of the conclusion to address the issue of small and light weapons and ammunition in BiH, I would like this deadline, says: the BiH Ministry of Security and the BiH Ministry of Defence undertakes to inform Parliament and the Commission by 1.11.2007, etc. I think that this deadline should be extended, if we accept these conclusions,...we only give two days after this session is over... The Ministry. Is that enough? _________(?) 30 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1022	Mr. Zno, you want to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1023	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1024	Let's say in point 6 instead of 1.11. Thank you very much. Is there anything else to say about this? Is that referring to the first point? By 1.12 and the Council of Ministers, hello, Mr. Branko, I apologize! So does this refer to the first point: The Council of Ministers undertakes to report by 1.11. [[Common discussion]] So, to do that wherever it is to stand on the 1st 12th, let's not read it all now. Any other objections? So, in addition to this prenumeration, wherever it is in text 1, the obligation by 1.11. should stand 1.12. There are no other changes. I conclude, therefore, the debate and put forward the proposal for conclusions under: a) to address the issue of small and light weapons and ammunition in BiH. Who's "for"? I find that we unanimously accepted this conclusion under a). We will make a separate statement, is it a very significant variety of areas, and the conclusions of one commission are under: b) to solve the problem in the work of the BiH Border Police, along with these corrections. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted both conclusions of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Moving to point 20. It's "Ad." 20. Confirmation of the appointment of Ms Ljerka Marić as Director of the Economic Planning Directorate
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1027	I just wanted to say that with this appointment, I'm going to be restrained and that it's only for principled reasons. Namely, at a time when Mrs. Marić was minister at the country's finance ministry, it was... a law, the Excise Act, later and rules for the implementation of that law that had a disastrous impact on the business of the country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1028	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Who wants another word? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1029	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I must point out my dissatisfaction, my personal dissatisfaction with this proposal. In fact, Mrs. Marić, while performing her post in the Council of Ministers, did her own actions, caused enormous damage to Hidrogradnji from Gacka over the distribution of money claims from Iraq with Hidrogradnja from Sarajevo. I believe that she has put this company into an extremely difficult financial situation today. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1030	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Any other objections? I think, Professor Neimarlija, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1031	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, delegates, guests, I also need to agree on my part... with the reasons already mentioned by my colleague Adem, when this law – that he will be restrained about this appointment for principle reasons. My reason is concrete, because in the previous term, my colleague, the chairman, was the subject of even one proposal to amend the Act on Excises which I wanted to remove the injustice that is still going on, which seems to be according to domestic coffee, coffee, coffee, and which has not passed and I hold that... Mrs. Marić, therefore, is responsible for still being, or bearing part of responsibility, which still seems, and I think all colleagues know what injustices do to domestic processors, because they... have double taxation so that they are not simply equal to this foreign, to say, competition. And for that reason, I will be restrained on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1032	32 Thank you very much. Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1033	Thank you very much. Unlike my colleagues, hearing what has been said here today, I have the need to express my satisfaction and praise the overall work of Mrs. Marić in her engagement in the authorities since 1999. This lady – an exceptional expert, a master of economic science – has contributed to a number of cases of overcoming the problems imposed in the work of the Ministry of Finance, both at the Federation level and at the state level. And here, the remarks I heard could go to the address of perhaps other ministries, such as the Ministry of Foreign Trade and go to the address of those who advocated non-compliance with the agreements signed by BiH with other countries, and there was that, and it has always stood by how to affirm BiH, how to make BiH more transparent and make its functioning a better overall life in BiH. I just remind myself that even the most difficult problems she has always solved with a smile and joy and that all those who were in her environment can express satisfaction with her work and that, by introducing such an atmosphere, she can certainly respond to any task put before her, and that BiH is benefiting from that. I'm convinced of that, among other things, because I'm also her professor, which I'm proud of.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1034	Thank you very much. We've heard those nice and beautiful words about your student. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1035	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I, unlike the participants so far in the debate, have no concrete reason either to dispute or to celebrate the role of the lady in question, and therefore I will now turn one other approach. I would also like to ask in other questions – therefore, not to deny anyone the right to question professional integrity, competence, attitude towards work and other elements that are valued when we talk about appointments – that we approach other appointments in a similar way. To try to analyze the contribution of those who are running for responsibilities and to be as clear a conscience as in today’s case.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-10-29-0.u1036	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. I'm not closing the debate. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. So we heard what we heard. It is the right of every representative to give his judgment on any appointment, on any matter, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure: everyone has the right to everything within the Rules of Procedure. I therefore place the confirmation of Mrs Ljerka Marić's appointment as director of the Economic Planning Directorate. 33 Who Is “For ” This Proposal? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, 11. Who Is “against ”? One is “against. ” "Contained"? Two. I agree that the House of People has confirmed Mrs Ljerka Marić's appointment as director of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate. It's 21. Ad. 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Economic and Technological Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Greece You've reached the Committee's report. The House of Representatives has given consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a motion to give consent. Who's "for"? ‘Non’? "Contained"? No one. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify this act. It's 22: Ad. 22. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on cooperation in the field of defence industry
