ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u464	... toputtheircardsinthescheduledplaces. We'll start the 7th session. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, present officials from the Council of Ministers, the international community, media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 7th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Just to determine the presence. There are 13 MPs present, five of them from the Bosniak people, three from the Croatian people and five from the Serb people. Mr. Zrna and Mr. Vidović are absent justly. For the 7th session, I suggest the next amended updated agenda that you have already received on your benches. A total of 19 points. 1. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 2. The request of the Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Sports in BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 3. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes, first reading - Proposer of the Council of Ministers (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Liabilities on the basis of an account of old foreign exchange savings, first reading – Proposer House of Representatives (application of the Old Rules of Procedure); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account, first reading - Proposer of the Council of Ministers (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 8. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Competition Act, first reading – Proposer House of Representatives (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 9. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Industrial Property in BiH, first reading – Proposer House of Representatives (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 2 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions of BiH, first reading – Proposer House of Representatives (new Rules of Procedure); 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, first reading - Proposer Envoy Slobodan Šaraba (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 12. Proposal for a Law on Higher Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading – Proposer of the Council of Ministers (application of the Old Rules of Procedure); 13. Giving consent to ratifying the Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Legal Assistance – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 14. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between BiH and the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income and property taxes – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, and Bank of Austria Credit Assessment Ag – The Brcko District of BiH Water Supply Project – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Credit Agreement between BiH and OPEC International Development Fund - The Sarajevo bypass project – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 17. Giving consent to ratifying the Social Security Treaty between BiH and the Kingdom of Belgium – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 18. Giving consent to ratifying the Maritime Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Credit Agreement between BiH, represented by the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH, and Bank Austria Credit Assessment Ag – Project of the Water and sewerage system in the Municipality of Gradiška – Proposer of the BiH Presidency. It's the agenda. I would just like to remind you that there is no record of the 6th session of the House of Peoples, since we held the 6th session a few minutes ago. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Nobody's answering. I'm concluding the debate and I'm realizing that we've established the agenda for today's seventh session. So we're going to the 1st point of the agenda, that's Ad. 1. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u467	One moment, I have a need to comment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u468	Here you go, Mr. Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u469	:...respected, I welcome again the president and the working presidency, your esteemed fellow envoys. It's kind of a short time between this previous session and this session, so this opening part is necessary. I did, and you got it in the answer materials, so I asked for it justifiably. - What happened to Doc in Lashvi where it's incognito (and it's confirmed again because nothing was denied) secretly exhumed, where they wanted to look for the prosecution's order of two or three killed, and they found 15 bodies? And I have to re-evaluate that from the same person's questions... in the last term since we had, when I was in the House of Representatives, where the disgusting terrorist murders are called the same events. The same story is killing a man. So from the same person and in this answer no word of dignity to the victims. It's an important finding that there are no signs of injuries. And without the public, my question was, why was it done without the public? Why do I have to secretly find out that it was done, if it was a clean store and if it was an exhumation properly and to get to this information about which gentlemen came about? Why was that done? That was my question. So I don't think I got any answers. But, in fact, I'm even more convinced that there were suspicious shops and that the public should not know that people lost dignity there, not only because they were killed but after 15 years of murder, they didn't get satisfaction, at least that they were spoken of with dignity. And I find this inadmissible. It's a question of DOC victims. And the question to the Bureau member - about his absence of talks at the invitation of the US administration! I think I'm being blamed here. And that's nice to hear, since I was there in the presidency, so I should know all along, I shouldn't have asked a question. Well, since you know all that, Mr. Jović, for asking that question, and we want to stay good with the U.S. administration. It's like Ivo Miro Jović wants to start a war with the US administration. Ivo Miro Jović wants to know why negotiations are being conducted in this country and there is no answer here again, and neither did Mr Komšić, the member of the presidency, to whom I referred the issue, answer that question. Why did he not react to meeting in this country representatives of the two nations to the harm of the third? That was the essence of the question. And will that happen again? Here, I'll take it, it's done, it's done, it's done and it's done. 4 But there is no condemnation in the public of such proceedings, nor are there relevant bodies and people who must take care of it and show that there are no separate conversations in this country against the third! So I'm not satisfied with any of the other questions, with the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u470	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. There were no other answers, so we'll move on to new envoys' questions. I'm asking who has a question. Anybody want some? Two. I don't know who he was before, but we'll still give the lady a head start. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u471	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I must first say that I am truly revolutionized by what is here, I don't know, on three or four questions I haven't received any more answers. And again it begins to happen what was and in the last session that... the delegate issues have become something that the Council of Ministers, to which absolutely, does not hold. So... I'll try to see to what extent this tenacity is, on my part, and their tenacity to not respond, on the other hand. But therefore, if we want to protect the dignity of this home, I really think and suggest that the Kolegijum should hold a meeting in that sense and see what deadlines we can even get an answer to. So, first of all, I'm really revolutionized that they don't think our questions should be answered at all. The second question is again to the Council of Ministers. I think it's very relevant and it says: - the truth-examination committee on the deaths of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, Jevrej and others in Sarajevo since '92. '95. the year 30.6. practically expired one year without achieving any results. As is known, members of this commission have not been working since December of last year, when disagreements over the topic of research, or whether the commission will deal exclusively with human or human and material damages during the war in Sarajevo. So far, the dissatisfaction of members of this commission, many of which were expected, has been charged from the Budget of this country by 115 thousand marks. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me: - When will this topic be held at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, i.e. when will the Council of Ministers make the appropriate decisions to which the work of this Commission will be unblocked? Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u472	Thank you very much. Compared to this observation of yours, if I may say so, I am also dissatisfied with the lack of an answer to the questions asked. Before I give Mr. Šarabi a word, I suggest one conclusion: that the secretariat sets out all questions of a representative we have not received an answer to, and then we, members of the College, will hold a conversation with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Spiric, and remove this stalemate. Can this conclusion be accepted? Who's "for"? I'm asking you to make a statement about it. I find that we unanimously accept this conclusion and ask the Secretariat to act in accordance with this conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u473	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, this is the fourth parliamentary question I have not received an answer. My parliamentary question is as follows. - In BiH in the last 15 days, thousands of hectares of forests and enormous material damage have been destroyed, especially in the southern parts of BiH, especially in Herzegovina. Obviously, this issue in the future needs to be given far more attention and its resolution needs to be approached far more seriously in order to prevent the enormous catastrophic consequences that we are now suffering. I'm really appealing right now and I'm asking everyone to think about 2008. In August the month will likely pass either quickly or slowly, less or more painfully, there will be huge consequences. Trebinje municipality suffered damages measured by millions of marks. I ask the question of the Ministry of Transport and Communications: - Is there now some sort of idea plan or intention to buy modern aircraft intended solely for these needs that would be stationed in the space of potential hotspots? I ask that this be taken seriously and that we talk about this in future time and talk about it far more seriously. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u474	Thank you, Mr. Šarab. Here, while the others think, I'll ask one question. This is a three-point question and I refer it to the BiH Council of Ministers. 1. The first question concerns the investigation conducted by the BiH Prosecutor's Office at the Ministry of the Interior of the Herzegovina-Neretva County or Canton and it is known that the investigation has started and lasted since 27.10.2005, I repeat, in 2005, and that the provisions of the BiH Criminal Procedure Act, the Constitution of BiH and the European Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms related to the length of the investigation have already been violated six months ago, since our legislation requires that the investigation can only be extended at the end of the six-month period only after the conclusion of the College of the Prosecutor's Office. The investigation into this case lasts 21 months. What will BiH institutions do to prevent this illegality? 2. Why and on whose orders, after 15 months of her conduct, was the exception of a domestic prosecutor and handed over to an international prosecutor, Venzdorf, who had effectively and legally disregarded the provisions of the law and international conventions, and, according to us, opened the whole case again in mid-February and early February, without respecting the legal provisions on the duration of the investigation? 3. And about this same question (point 3) The arrest of the prime minister, the Minister of Interior of the Herzegovina-Neretva County and the Director of the Police of the Herzegovina-Neretva County on 22.5.2007 was brutally inappropriate, unwarranted, with objections to political interference, as shown by the decision of the Court of Justice of BiH, and therefore I ask: - Who will bear the consequences of such inappropriate behaviour of state and federal institutions and what has been taken by the Council of Ministers and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council so far, and what measures will BiH's competent institutions take to prevent human rights violations in this case? Next question I'd like to ask. Is that a new question, Mr. Jović? Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u475	: My question is referred to the BiH Council of Ministers and the government of the Federation of BiH. - Currently in BiH, the construction of highways that connect Banja Luka, Tuzlu with highways in the Republic of Croatia and is known to Sarajevo – Zenica and, according to what is apparent, it is a priority to build on the route of Lašva – Travnik – Donji Vakuf. However, the town of Mostar as a cultural and traffic centre of the southern part of BiH is not mentioned about possible highway construction (the Mostar highway in Dalmatia or the Republic of Croatia), so my question is: - Does it look like when this part of the Corridor Vc highway could be built?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u476	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Any more questions? I therefore conclude the point of answering the envoy's questions and envoy's questions, and once again, I underline that, in accordance with the conclusion we have reached by the Secretariat: it sets out all the questions, including today's questions that we have heard and prepared a platform for discussion, so the College of the House of Peoples with Mr Spiric. Thank you very much. Moving to point 2. 7 Ad. 2. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Sports in BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples We are having a debate on whether or not the law will be discussed by a brief procedure. The House of Representatives adopted a request from the Council of Ministers to cut deadlines to discuss this law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u478	So, as we can see, today there is another important law in front of us by proposing the Council of Ministers to be considered under a reduced procedure, so in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Since I am aware that many sports organisations in BiH have been waiting for this law for a long time, I propose that this House of Parliamentary Assembly be made known in this sense and make its full contribution and allow this law to be adopted as soon as possible, establishing rules and competences in the field of sports at the level of the BiH state, entity and Brcko District. The law is also a prerequisite for BiH to be included in international sports associations, the International Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee. So, the condition for membership in all international sports associations is legal regulation at the state level. I urge my fellow delegates to accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers, i.e. a shortened procedure for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u479	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? I'm putting on a plea, so I'm asking for it. Who's in favour of a brief procedure going... this law? I agree that we unanimously accepted the procedure for this bill. Moving to point 3. Ad. 3. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (application of the new Rules of Procedure) You've received the bill's proposal and you've received a report from the relevant committee. Also, one note that the House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading. So this is the first 8 reading of the law, in accordance with Article 100. We are having a debate on the necessity and principles on which this law is based. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go. I believe someone else will take the floor but you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u481	...I think it's good to talk about the laws, regardless of what they did in the House of Representatives, but the House of Peoples should at least give a brief statement about it, respecting everything that has been done within the House of Representatives. So, I think this law establishes very important principles. This is the basic framework of the organisation of secondary vocational education and training and... legal preconditions to address at entity level, i.e. canton, the issue of organising a reform of secondary vocational education, i.e. training and start with the same principles on uniform standards that set the framework law. By passing this law, BiH assumes the obligation to provide modern and democratic management and co-operation with employees in schools, parents and other participants. Also, this law will introduce a new reformed framework that will make BiH's education system reform more effective and faster and ensure that education meets labour market needs, which is particularly important. Finally, the adoption of this law has been defined as a priority in the European Partnership Programme with BiH whose deadline was the end of June 2006. So, starting from the fact that this framework law meets the basic principles that include the development of quality, professional education and training based on social inclusion, cohesion, mobility, employment opportunities and competitiveness, with the aim of strengthening the European dimension and vocational education and training, I propose that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly support the proposal for this framework law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u482	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? If no one wants to, I close the debate and put this law in the first reading. Who's "for"? I find that we unanimously accepted the proposal of this law in the first reading. .....point 4. is: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes, first reading - Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You got the bill, you got the... Report of the relevant committee. The House of Representatives also adopted this law in the first reading. This is the first reading, in accordance with Article 100. Also, the first debate on the principles on which this law is based. 9 I... am opening a debate and asking who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u484	He's just doing the information. So there's a report from the competent commission and he's talking about it but for those who still have the dilemma, so the thing is exclusively about erasing the bet -- heading 104. Since this is, then, the removal of the administrative fee from, I think, 50 marks because it is incompatible with the role of the Public Procurement Agency, so in the future,... since the Public Procurement Agency is obliged to provide support... to all those who request an expert opinion, it is abolished... those 50 marks and the law is entirely, so it only talks about, so there is no reason not to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u485	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement and this proposal for an act to be accepted in our first reading. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted the proposal for this act in the first reading. Point 5 is Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Liabilities on the basis of an account of old foreign exchange savings, first reading – Proposer: House of Representatives (application of the Old Rules of Procedure) And a few introductory sentences before we open the debate. So, just reminders for the sake of this, the House of Peoples reached its conclusion at its 5th session in the debate on this point, and I recall that it said: The Committee for Finance and Budget is committed to drawing up a new report within 30 days in agreement with the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, which will deliver to the People's House for adoption and that the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH will carry out further arrangements with the relevant associations and inform the Committee on Finance and Budget. The commission delivered their report. The commission did not accept the principles of the bill. This is the first reading, according to article 90, so, the old Rules of Procedure, and I told the old Rules of Procedure. We should now have a practical discussion of the necessity and principles on which this law was based. Another key information if we forgot: this law did not receive support in our debate before we returned the report to the Committee, but passed in the House of Representatives before the general elections. It happened a long time ago. 10 Before I opened the debate, however, I would give my word to the President of the Committee that we may hear its position – the position of the Committee. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u487	The Commission has been very zealous about this issue, trying to reconcile seemingly uncompromised views. But here, however, we came up with a solution. So we had a few sessions and here's this... The 5th session, held on 26.6., in the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, so together with representatives of the Association of Foreign Savings, was re-examined by this law and adopted a conclusion asking the Council of Ministers to appoint two other members in the working group on issues of old foreign savings, this is Mr. Fra Gabriel Mioč and Mrs. Amila Omersoftić. This was considered to represent all relevant associations of old foreign currency savings. At the 6th session, held on 17 July, also with the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Commission discussed the record from the Working Group meeting in which Mr. Fr. Mioč took part, and Mrs. Omersoftić did not respond because she felt that he did not appear as a working group representative, and it was not possible to carry out this because at that time the Working Group highlighted the mandate, as the Council of Ministers formed the Working Group for 30 days. And then, it was absurd for the task force to be appointed as additional members. ... The Commission therefore resorted to one conclusion: to form a new working group that will work until all issues of old foreign exchange savings are resolved, in which Mr Svetozar Nišić, Mrs Amila Omersoftić and Mr Fra Gabriel Mioč will be represented. Therefore, the Commission's meeting reached full agreement and since foreign exchange savings will be able to defend their interests within the Working Group and, on this basis, the Commission for Finance and Budget of the People's House has concluded that – unanimously – the principles of the law which means the adoption of the House of Representatives in the previous meeting are not accepted. So our position again is the same, but now this time it's in line with the old foreign savings -- not to accept the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u488	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. We heard the position of this committee. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the law that probably has the longest internship in bh. The public and he lasts as long as the search for old savings is for his money. This is a law that is probably one of the most difficult laws to pass, but also the most needed laws for BiH citizens, as well as for BiH's perspective towards Euro-Atlantic integration. 11 I am here in a double role, and I say it for both conscience and for the public, therefore also as a representative in the House of Peoples and as a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance. It is a duty to say, because of our public, that what we have received in recent months in the legacy of the old assembly of Parliament was neither grateful nor easy to resolve, and that at the Committee we have held a debate in a way that we try, as Mrs Majkić said, to reconcile two, to the eyes, at first sight, an uncompromising attitude: the attitude of the savings to have the right to their money as it would say immediately, as soon as possible, which was always natural to me, and the position of the BiH institution that BiH cannot bear such a financial blow, in order to lead to its collapse – financial. Of course, as an agent and I as well as everyone else, we had to make sure that we had to defend the integrity of the state, so its economic integrity, financial integrity and not question it, but we had to defend fundamental human rights regulated by all international norms that private property is sacred to which the democratic system rests throughout the world and which is untouchable, which must be guaranteed. Unfortunately, the last Parliament's call from some practical, daily... before the elections he passed a law that we were immediately aware was inconclusive. The law did not provide a minimum of material support to which it would be possible to implement it and created only one illusion, that is, one illusion in the less-saved people to save their money. And then, when I first met this problem, and today, I was fully aware that neither debt could be returned in five years and that it was also not a moral offer to pay back in 13 years. There were even more extreme demands, up to 40 years old, perhaps some who had previously been in it remember. We, too, had a good intention on the Committee, but we came up with very sharp polemic tones, because there were two positions conflicting – that the law should simply be rejected as unrealistic, a law that has no coverage, should be rejected and some of us who thought we should give a chance of any attempt to agree and find a compromise. And here, it's also said in the Commission's conclusion that we finally came up with something that might be called a compromise. I want to believe that this compromise will not be compromised from any side. So it's clear that so-called. Gligoric's law was not possible to implement, as it is equally clear and even clearer that 13 years of debt paid, with a unclear start of the repayment period, was also not acceptable to the savings. And in the search for this, we have included all the savings associations in BiH that have shown interest in participating in this and we have called it a partnership relationship between the Council of Ministers and savings associations in BiH, and with full confidence they supported the conclusions at last session of the Committee. So, we turn around, we turn our backs on the so-called. Gligoric's law as something that is unreal, unacceptable, inconclusive, but with full faith, we are turning to partner work and the result of this work between the Council of Ministers and all relevant savings associations in BiH. This, as a man, gives me moral coverage that I can say that Gligorić's law, today I will raise my hand against him, be rejected and give me absolute confidence and hope that the Council of Ministers, in cooperation with the savings, will offer a joint proposal to amend and supplement the law that will be equally acceptable, i.e. equally difficult and painful, and also to save for BiH as a whole. In that sense, I call, and from this place today as a representative, as a member of that committee – and the Council of Ministers and is saving to refrain from unilateral moves, because there is an announcement that some unilateral moves have already been made. 12 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u490	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. It might be good, so it might be good before Mr. Rajić said that we heard... and the word of the promoter. So, Deputy Minister Kasumović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u491	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Working Presidency,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u492	You can look back immediately to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u493	Okay. I owe a little clarification on this: that two months ago the Council of Ministers reached one conclusion, it formed a Commission, whose head I was on, to make an amendment and supplement to the Law on Old Foreign Savings. The commission included representatives of the savings site. I don't even know the number of those savings representatives he's got. Meanwhile, the House Commission has asked for Fr. Gabrijel and Mrs. Amila to be placed. Since the time of this commission stood out, it was another three days of the importance of this commission, I took it, knowing that the Council of Ministers needed a month to pass, simply invited these people to a meeting. Amila refused, Gabrijel came here and they worked. So that commission was open, I was open to anyone, there were some savings that weren't presidents of the association, etc. because the commission did not decide by consensus, not by voting, but by trying to find the best solution. We had it then and eventually it will remain: three points are very important to solve this problem – these are years of return, they are interest and that is verification. In terms of verification, the Association of Foreign Savings, you know that boycotts verification, at least one part, which gives us absolutely great problems because we can't get the number this country needs to return to those savings. It goes on to say that we can't bring the macroeconomic stability of the state into some uninvited position because we don't know how much we need to get back. The savings were then asked by this commission to guarantee their debt to a world bank – about 60 million a year. That's when we agreed, it's over. So that part of the debt will be treated the same as the external debt, on that side and the savings have given up the guarantee of a European bank. Secondly, it's obvious, since they boycotted the verification to give one period, we agreed it was the deadline of 30 September this year. And it's consistent and we all signed it. There are two things left to be disputed: those are years of return and interest. There's two things about interest. One is interest until bond is issued, and the other is from issue to maturity. The BiH Constitutional Court's Human Rights House, it seems, has reached a conclusion that it is not moral to ask for interest on that wartime, however, it is said in the current law that it is 0.5% per year and we, in front of the Council of Ministers, have accepted it. And, secondly, we stayed at the bet that this second interest from bonding to bond maturity was 2.5%. The savings were divided about it, and we are not completely in agreement here. 13 And most importantly, as president of this task force, there were entities, because ultimately entities repay these debts across the state, so I suggested, I repeat, with agreement, that it be nine years. So we cut from 13 to 9 years old. The savings stayed at the bet that it was seven years old. And that's where we couldn't make a deal. The most important thing, so the start of repaying debts is regulated by law and that doesn't change. So, the Central Bank, as a fiscal agent of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, is ready and the deadline for the issue of bonds is 30 March 2008. So, if the verification ends tomorrow, I'm speaking conditionally, so we could cut that deadline short in the second month to issue the bonds. The very important thing is next. These are the first securities this country has issued and we can't play with it. So they're going to be betrayed by the Central Bank. The state stands behind it, stands the state budget, and these funds will, therefore, have the same treatment as the external debt. You know we're one of the more orderly states to repay foreign debt. We're also going to show these bonds that we're a Solvency State, to meet our own both international and internal debts. On the other hand, I forwarded these conclusions to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers adopted without any big debate. I thought there was going to be some years of debate, and by my knowledge tomorrow at the House of Representatives, these amendments from the Council of Ministers are going. It means that it's 9 years, that it's a 0.5 interest until the issue, 2.5 from the issue, that we extend the verification until September 30th and that the issue of bonds ends at the end of 30.3.2008. On the other hand, I also support this commission, so this Gligoric law is unsustainable, unsustainable, and it should be removed and set off as the House of Representatives went. Thank you very much. I hope I've managed to explain a little bit to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u494	Thank you very much, Mr. Kasumović. Who wants another word? Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u495	Of course, I don't mean to compromise with a representative of the Ministry of Finance, but when I said that we had reached a compromise that we couldn't compromise it, then I said it in the best of faith. And since there is information, they can already in some way be specified on the amendments that will be found at the House of Representatives tomorrow, that I have information – these amendments are not in line with the savings. I don't think it's a good procedure if the Council of Ministers is going with the proposal of these two key issues, so the questions of interest and interest issues, without trying to find some medium measure before that. I believe that with the savings today, after all we've been through with them and you together, that they can be asked to compromise, and I think that's what I find to be a one-sided move by the Council of Ministers. You may still have the opportunity and time to try to seek a compromise and then go before Parliament, whether it's about that home, the House of Representatives, or this one right here. So, in that sense, it's my remark. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u496	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Perhaps it would be good to hear... an explanation about what we heard from Mr Rajić. So the amendments are not in line with the savings, that's one thing. It mentions the deadline in the amendments, I don't think I'd like to open the debate now on amendments that aren't, so it's the first reading, but the amendments tomorrow at the House of Representatives session, please, please, please, so whether it's nine years or up to nine years. I would ask Mr Kasumović to have us here, to know exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u497	I think I made myself clear. So, two things are that we didn't agree with the savings. I think the House of Representatives will probably find that compromise tomorrow and I know that savings can find a compromise that ensures; so the amendment is up to nine years in the variant, I repeat again, when the verification is completed on September 30th. Once we know exactly how much that means, there will be a chance to cut that deadline again. But until then, we can't take any further chances.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u498	Thank you very much. I wouldn't be the one to open the amendment debate, but it's very important for us to have this clarification. Because up to nine can be five, and six, and seven, etc. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u499	I'm just saying that we have two meanings of the old foreign currency law. The first one is this so-called. Gligorićev, the second immediately after the next point concerning the already amended law by the Council of Ministers. It is important that the Commission's decision was to form a working group that would work in communication with old foreign savings until all problems were solved. So, the Council of Ministers has an obligation to form such a working group with that proposal... with our conclusion that it will continue to work. How many years will it be? And foreign savings will participate in this process that when we know what the obligations of this country are. So, and that means after the verification is complete. It's just one explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u500	Thank you very much. Here, Mr Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u501	In fact, we have a agenda point – a statement on Gligorić's law. I will vote - as this commission has concluded. And this second, the second behind that is what we're talking about. And we always do that. So let us vote. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u502	Thank you very much. So I'm not gonna rule out the debate as long as someone wants to talk about this point,...we're gonna give equal rights to every MP. Anybody else want a word? So, we heard all the arguments... We're discussing this law in our first reading. We've got a negative position on our commission. We heard the President of the Committee. I am obliged to put on a statement the report of this committee. Please let us know who's in favour of this committee's report. I agree that we unanimously apologized, so it was unanimously accepted by the Commission's report. At the same time, I would like to vote at the same time on the conclusion made by this committee, which is that it obliges the Council of Ministers to form a working body that will resolve the remaining issues listed in the minutes of the Working Group meeting on old foreign savings, held in 9 and 10.7.2007, the number and that. The following representatives of the Savings Association should be appointed to the working body referred to in paragraph 1 of this conclusion: 1. Svetozar Nišić of the Association of Citizens for the Return of Old Foreign Savings in BiH and Diaspora, 2. Amilu Omersoftić of the Association for the Protection of Foreign Savings in BiH and 3rd Fr. Gabrijel Mioč of the Association of Owners of the Old Foreign Savings in the Federation of BiH I ask you to state this conclusion as well. Who's "for"? I understand that we unanimously accepted this conclusion. At the same time, I agree: therefore, the adoption of the Report does not accept further procedures. This law stopped, fell into the House of Peoples. I'm going to point six, that's ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account, first reading – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (application of the new Rules of Procedure) You've received the bill's proposal and we've heard or received that report from the competent commission. Let me give you one more piece of information before Mrs. Majkić takes the floor: The House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading. Tomorrow is already at the House of Representatives a second reading and discussion on amendments. We'll have another reading, if Bog will, after a vacation. This is the first reading. But before the debate, before I open the debate, Mrs. Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u504	I'd just like to say briefly, in fact, what the essence of this law is. So he regulates several things under the existing Old Foreign Savings Act, primarily that the return of 16 foreign savings obligations can be made out of available funds based on the succession of former SFRY and other available funds, which did not specify in the existing law. Furthermore, BiH is committed to helping through its international activities savings that have been saved by those banks to exercise their rights at least the same as saving for banks that had their headquarters in BiH territory. We know that the existing law absolutely does not cover foreign savings that had foreign savings in Invest Bank, in Ljubljana Bank. Of these more important things, the obligation is regulated to support all financial institutions in the process of verification of old foreign currency savings and to co-operate with entity finance ministries... in order to end this job. And another who is a slightly awkwardly engaged member, from the point of view of his deadline – is the deadline for applying for verification: it is said that on 1 May 2007. We already know in advance that we have to act as an amendment, because entities have started to define it differently, that it's a member who's going to require emergency intervention because it's actually an unsustainable short term. ... This bill only regulates those few items. So we expect that this new proposal, or amendment, delivered by the Council of Ministers, will affect some of the more important things that are not covered here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u505	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. The Council of Ministers has the right to make mistakes, but we are here to see these mistakes, that is our basic task. Does Mr. Proposer need anything to add to this? I'm opening the debate. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u506	I'd just, since we already have... that man from the ministry. I have here a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on measuring obligations... of old foreign currency savings, speaking... of this law, and I have amendments to the same thing. What are we talking about today?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u507	Please. We are discussing the principles on which the bill is based. There are no amendments. The amendment phase is in the second reading. Please don't bother with the amendments now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u508	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u509	Others are amendments that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u510	Please. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u511	There's no amendment at all. I don't know if they're first or second. [[Common discussion]] Please, Mr. Representative, it's tomorrow at the House of Representatives, and we will after vacations and after this task force, which we have talked about, sits down and possibly does something else and settles. We can get additional amendments to the House of Peoples when we discuss it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u513	Well, then I have nothing to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u514	Mr. Rajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u515	Well, here, maybe there was a little misunderstanding. I couldn't talk about the definition of the so-called. Gligoric's law, not to be associated with this point of 6th and the perspectives of that point. That's what I was talking about. After this, everything we have heard and an explanation from the Council of Ministers, so I would like to say that I support the principles of this law proposed by the Council of Ministers, deeply convinced that the Council of Ministers will and save open issues and bring us a bill of law, which we will no longer have to deal with so much. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u516	Thank you very much. Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u517	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And with this occasion and I will argue on my part that this story, in a way, without any indication of the theft of a part or a large part of our citizens and the injustice that has been done to them for years, finally seems to me, to be getting some contexts that it is possible to solve it to satisfaction after all. The satisfaction of the authorities and authorities so that the country does not get into financial problems, and, on the other hand, that as many righteously damaged people as possible are compensated. We know, so this year, that there was a difference in watching how to solve this problem until we had both the authorities and the bodies in the country that denied the obligation to return, and even interpreted it, publicly told us, on the other hand, the cramping struggle of citizens who were damaged and thus created... without need or better to say mistrust. I hope that with such a serious approach we finally come into a situation where people start to believe in institutions because it seems to me that they are willing and available to solve this issue, but in a consistent way and in a way that will strengthen their trust. 18 So I would like to appeal to those who are sitting in these bodies, proposed by our distinguished representative, Majkić, to take care of what... has been established by the Human Rights Commission at the BiH Constitutional Court. I would mention only one extremely important moment and it's in the team... The Constitutional Court, or the commission in which it is ordered or ordered, is the accused party, in this case BiH, must provide guarantees or guarantees that will be provided for the payment of those benefits – the bond that we were talking about today: there must be something called firm, firm and orderly, in accordance with the law. Therefore, in these conversations, I would also now point out that it is an extremely important thing in terms of the easier mutual understanding of the damaged and those who need to damage those people – to take care of the sensitivity of this matter, the patience of those people who have so far sought their right and, above all,... on our part to convince them that we mean it seriously and to spend it. And there's no better thing if we don't give them, in that sense, what's called a legal guarantee that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u518	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr. Koprivica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u519	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Presidency, dear colleagues and others present, supporting the principles of this law, I would just like to give one suggestion in terms of further work and this commission, or further procedure ahead. Regarding the deadline for submitting an application to verify the old foreign exchange savings account, what did Mrs. Majkić say? I think that this section should take special care of the provisions of the Law on Liabilities. As far as unfounded wealth is concerned, the Institute of Unfounded Riches and the question of the limitations of the claim, means, if we limit this deadline beyond the provisions of the Law on Bonds, I think that fellow lawyers will agree, that we do not go into collapsing, even though this is a special regulation... in terms of... obsolescence, that is, in terms of possible unfounded wealth. So I suggest we really consider this question in detail before we determine the final text of the law that we will later have in further procedure. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u520	Thank you very much. So I have to say that I have a request here, so a person, so a lady from the savings association who would like to speak. I must say, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples prevent me from giving you my word. You will have the opportunity to say what you think of this committee, which we have accepted in conclusion, and to make all your argument. The hearing here under the Rules of Procedure may be held by authorised proposings and MPs. I'm sorry I had to do that because it was the lady who asked for the word. But the Rules of Procedure prevents me from doing such a thing, that I may give you my word. I'm asking if there's anyone else who wants to talk. I am concluding the debate and putting it on the line, therefore, this bill in the first reading in relation to the principles of this law on which this law is based. Who's "for"? I find that we unanimously supported this law in our first reading. Moving to point 7, that's 19 Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH, first reading – Proposer: Council of Ministers (application of the new Rules of Procedure) You have received the bill's proposal and at the same time the report of the relevant committee. The House of Representatives passed this law in the first reading. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a plea. Who is for this law in the first reading? Do we vote who's in favour? I also find that we unanimously accepted the proposal for this act in the first reading. Point 8 is: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Competition in BiH, first reading – Proposer: House of Representatives (application of the new Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u524	Dear President, dear colleagues, at the beginning of this presentation, allow me to introduce you to the decision of the Serbian People's Club to make a proposal for this law, regardless of its adoption at the House of Representatives, will not receive support in the first reading. 20 E, the arguments for such a decision are as follows: therefore, all the measuring institutions of this country have put a negative position on this law, except for the House of Representatives. The Institute for Intellectual Property of BiH gave a negative position on the proposal for this law by letter from IT 03197/0-01BL of 17.4. The letter was signed by the director of the Lidija Vignjević Institute. The Council of Ministers at the 15th session, held on 28.6th of this year, established on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, an opinion on the draft law and tasked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to deliver the Opinion to the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The fact that this opinion was late and that the House of Representatives actually worked without any opinion. And third: yes... The foreign trade ministry and economic relations in its memo 05024247-2/07 of 29.5 also gave no positive position on the bill. The arguments, which are therefore impossible to support this bill, which were sent to the House of Representatives by Selim Bešlagić and Mirjana Malić, are the following – it is not possible to do, it is not possible to implement retroactive law. So, according to the law that was in force at the time, they couldn't patent drugs for humans and animals, except chemical procedures for their acquisition. Retroactive law giving is unconstitutional. So it's also a basic argument that makes... this bill cannot be obtained, it cannot be supported. Finally, even if this bill had been adopted, it is quite certain that the Constitutional Court would have knocked it down, as the procedure for the constitutionality of this law has already been announced. Under two: the adoption of this bill, as proposed, can lead to the creation of legally unequal conditions for the processing of patent applications submitted to the Institute during the same period. The result would be that the right holder, under whose requirements the procedure has been completed, is placed in an unequal position, in relation to applicants under whom the procedure has not been completed. Three: In addition, the short and medium-term priorities implementation programme of a document called the European Partnership with BiH has defined the intellectual property obligations, including the submission of legislation based on European legislation. The priority implementation programme includes the adoption of a new law on industrial ownership of BiH. So that's exactly what we should be working on. And the fourth argument, which does not need to support the principles of this bill, is that, below, the pressure of certain pharmaceutical houses and strong lobbies, which do not work in the interests of this country, but rather in chaos and disorder, only want to provide their interests. Finally, I was informed that the House of Representatives did not have the opinion of all relevant institutions when it decided on the adoption of this law. And to elaborate, so the Serb people's club on the proposal of this law, no matter what the adoption of the House of Representatives has passed, will not provide support in the first reading. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u525	Thank you very much. Here we have heard the argument of non-acceptance,...it seems to me, the shortest law I have ever seen in this House, here in the second session, in the second term, without getting, not getting, to be threatened, to threaten him with a fall in the House of Peoples, after passing the House of Representatives. But I ask who wants the next word? I, if I conclude, therefore the debate, and put to the plea this ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If the Proposer can reassure you, then I ask the Proposer to take the floor. Retrogrades are the norms here, retroactive application here of the norm exists in this proposal. It's one of the elements I've noticed, so I can trust this other. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? Please, "for" is two and four, again the Federation. Who Is “against ”? Republika Srpska. Thus, the law fell in the first reading. But for the record, the Federation supported it, the RS didn't. She's right about that, please. Let's move on, let's move on. Let's go to point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions, first reading - Proposer: House of Representatives (new Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u528	I got a pretty unusual law. I wanted to make sure what was started and why? This law doesn't even have a form respected, there's no explanation on which any more information could be obtained. So we've been reviewing our club session and we can't support this law for the simple reason it's not in legal form. There's not enough arguments. We have 22 tried to... in another way, and here is Mr. Šaraba as a promoter, or Mr. Novaković because his club suggested it. We can't support it, because we don't see any legal basis for this law. He lacks basic elements.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u529	All legislative proposals coming into parliamentary procedure, especially if the House of Representatives passes, must be in line with the Rules of Law in BiH institutions. So it's a business provision. As it was smuggled through the House of Representatives, I don't know. We heard... the position of the Club of Serbs. Anybody else want a word? I'm putting on a plea. I'm closing the argument. No one wants it anymore. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? Who Is “against ”? There are three “against ” and“ abstentions. ” So I'm among them, just out of protest because there was no respect for the law-making act. And this law didn't pass in the first reading in our home. If nothing else, we will warn the House of Representatives to take care of the form of acts passing through the House of Representatives. So, please, how much was "for" one more time? One, two, three, four, five from the Federation and one from the RS is following, so it eases... this collapse. Who Is “against ”? That's three, now it's four. It increased to four. And "abstained" are here, so let's add it all together. Three. Here, you wrote it all down. The law didn't get a pass. We're going to point 11.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u530	He didn't get the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u531	Because of the entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u532	Because of the entity, he didn't win.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u533	If it has nothing to do with the entity, then 23
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u534	So, when I emphasize it, then they say Republika Srpska again. But here is because of the smaller entity, according to the Constitution, therefore, because of RS votes, we have no entity support from the RS and this law has not received support. Are you satisfied? So it's 11: Ad. 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, first reading - Proposer: Envoy of Slobodan Šaraba You've received the bill's proposal and you've received a report from the competent committee. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u536	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, briefly. In July 2002, BiH ratified the European Convention on the Prevention of Torture, Inhumane and Demeaning Treatment or Penalty, which is an additional obligation to install the rights and standards set out in that Convention into the laws of BiH. It's one of the foundations why this amendment of law appeared. And basically, basically, and based on this change, there is humanity. So, human reasons are one of the main reasons why this amendment of the law appeared and why it was proposed, and in this direction I, as a proposer, accepted an initiative that was launched in the previous period. Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u537	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? Mrs. Majkić, we'll give the lady a head start.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u538	So we have before us a bill of law that regulates, therefore, the transfer of prisoners to entity institutions in order to treat prisoners more effectively or for security reasons. It is evident that... during certain periods there is an excessive number of prison populations that cannot be properly settled, leading to inadequate accommodation conditions and dissatisfaction of prisoners, which is the main cause of the prisoner's insurrection in those prisons. 24 There was found to be free accommodation facilities in another entity, but so far there was no legal possibility that... in such special circumstances, the BiH Minister of Justice could react and make it possible to move to another institution, in the area of another entity, when it comes to convictions for crimes in the jurisdiction of the entity and Brcko District. The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture at the Council of Europe or the CPT also discusses the alarming situation in prisons in BiH. The CPT report points to poor conditions for the stay of prisoners and detainees, and to the fact that in certain prisons in BiH the guards do not have complete control in individual prisons. Prisoners stay in the narrow halls, a small, small living room, and three prisoners share two beds. Often, individuals who maintain the sentence of juvenile prison are placed with persons who support the penalty for the most serious crimes. The problem of prison capacity, i.e. overnumerity and other recommendations of the CPT, suggests that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should in practice enable a solution to a very important penological problem, as stated in the bill. So, I suggest we support this bill in the first reading. And accordingly, I suggest one conclusion that is related to the same matter. The conclusion says, therefore, the latest report by the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe CPT points to a worrying situation in prisons in BiH. In particular, the poor conditions of being prisoners and detainees and the abuse of suspects are highlighted. The CPT insists an investigation of independent authorities, prosecutors or any other independent body such as some parliamentary bodies that have in their jurisdiction supervision of the Constitution, of institutions where persons are deprived of liberty. I therefore propose that the People's House adopt the following conclusion: It requires the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to discuss in detail the report of the CPT and investigate examples of human rights violations and fundamental freedoms in some prisons in BiH, making up a report with a proposal for measures and delivering it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u539	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. You have this conclusion in writing. We'll give priority to the MPs, so we'll hear from you when you're not at the beginning of an open debate. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u540	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, the proposal for a law on amendments to the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures stems from the assumption that entities and Brcko District are unable to exercise their powers. 25 Starting from this assumption, even though we do not have a methodologically, in the light of any arguments, the proposer decided that for three reasons – overnumerity, then for more efficient treatment and for security reasons – to suggest that convicts move from the same entities and Brcko District to some, I don't know, maybe a new or third or fourth entity or fifth entity, so from entity to entity, for these three reasons. And in the light of the law, it states that the situation regarding the execution of criminal sanctions in the Federation, the second paragraph said: At the sight of the prison system in BiH, there was a constant trend in increasing the number of detainees and prisoners in the Federation of BiH and RS. With this, whether there's an overnumerity or an empty space in the very reason, it cancels out. In the third position, it says: it is also a similar situation in RS, where it also states there is a lack of space. If, in his explanation, there is a lack of space in both the Federation and the RS, so what possibility of moving prisoners, is there, from one entity to another, we want to talk about and what effect we want to have with the adoption of this law. The second and third reasons set out in Article 1 of the Law, which is more efficient in realisation and security reasons, as a reason for the adoption of this law and the transfer of prisoners from one entity to another or to the Brcko District, would lead literally to the capitulation of the entity ministries of justice and the Brcko District, therefore.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u541	Because of the funds!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u542	Not because of the funds, it is the fact that the entity ministries through their consent to move prisoners from one entity to another, although there is nowhere else, in its explanation it says that it is all... the same, the same state, they would have to admit that they are unable to perform their function, the ministry, because it is resolutely competent to implement the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. And, if someone has to give consent to send a prisoner from the Federation entity to another entity, he actually has to admit his incompetence in implementing the law on criminal sanctions. That is why it is necessary to determine whether, both the resources and personnel and other potentials for promotion in this area, rather than the consent of one. I'm not capable of carrying out what the Constitution and the law have imposed on me as an obligation, so that's why I'm going to resort to less resistance, here I'm going to sign ten, twenty, or a hundred of some convicts to go from one entity to another, and we know it's a bad... condition. I am afraid that this would put into question the general and individual prevention of what is the purpose and the imposition of sanctions, as well as their execution. In particular, if we have, is this a recent experience in Foca prison (fleeing), or in what way has it already come that convicts of serious crimes leave,... flee from these prisons, then it is another reason why the distinguished colleagues and colleagues do not support the adoption of this law, because the adoption of this law will not achieve the purpose of general and individual prevention and pronunciation and enforcement, the enforcement of criminal sanctions. All of these problems are only in favour of the need to adopt regulations as well as to allocate funds... to pass the law and build a state-level prison that would be monitored by the court and other institutions, is it, related to the state level in BiH's judiciary. 26 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u543	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. We heard you, Mr. Šaraba, as a proposing. I would now ask, as the Deputy Minister of Justice has asked, that we give Mr. Arnaut a chance to speak to us. Here you go, Mr. Arnaut.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u544	Thank you, Chairman. Dear MPs, I think this bill has been in the process for quite some time, and he's actually been called from the past into this assembly. What the Ministry of Justice has done is that we have made the amendment and addition of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions that we have agreed with the OHR and which we will offer very quickly to the Council of Ministers. So what would be the basic objection to this bill? It is that there are no certain criteria, whether it is based on which grounds, so what are the conditions for us to move prisoners from one prison to another, and that, on the other hand, they are given very broad authority to the minister to decide on such a request. So, I think there was opposition and the international community to the law without criteria being passed and that it was simply said to try to do with a little more detail. So, I wouldn't be going into the European Committee of Prevention and Tortrum Report right now, I wouldn't be questioning the situation in prisons. Obviously, there is a problem, and it is obvious that this problem needs to be approached and that these issues need to be resolved in some ways to think about these options exceptionally, but based on the criteria set out. So the Department of Justice has made changes to this law and, to put it this way, the conditions by which it could possibly be done. For this reason, I also think that we also pointed out this question to the Commission at the House of Representatives and that this is why the proposal for a law at the House of Representatives of Šarabe was not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u545	Thank you very much, Mr. Arnaut. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u546	Short to answer to my esteemed colleague, Rančić. I think there's one right to be given to the minister in an exceptional case, as the deputy minister said, means in the case of excessiveness or for security reasons and nothing else. So there's no minister's right to move prisoners from one entity to another, so that's his rights that he has only meant in the case of overnumerity or for security reasons, to make detention more humane. So that's what led the promoters when they decided to go along with this amendment and to submit this amendment. And nothing else. So, security reasons and overnumerity. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u547	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. We want to finish this, if it's a replica. Mrs Alma, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u548	Chairman, I would be happy that we with this law can resolve the catastrophic state that exists in our prisons at all levels. So, the European Committee, the Council of Europe Committee that analysed the situation in our prisons, reached certain conclusions and warned BiH that it must take certain measures to improve this situation in prisons. So we have a situation where we don't have a solution to the issue of the accommodation of the unsuspecting perpetrators of criminal offences, and, you know, under the European Convention on the Prohibition of Torture, there are strict obligations that the country must adhere to when it comes to accommodation in law enforcement institutions, when it comes to dealing with persons in prison units and detention units. What Mr. Šaraba is saying and Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, I really justify it, because the situation in prisons is such that it has to change. Could the decision, meaning the minister of justice, by moving one prisoner from one prison facility to another, resolve the issue. I doubt it. Because the general situation in prisons in BiH is about the same. We don't have prison institutions at the level of the BiH state, we don't have separate institutions in which they are being held, so convicted persons who are being held in custody, because they are not the same treatment with detained persons and convicted persons who support prison sentences. We have separate institutes for persons who maintain a long-term prison sentence, and these are all the criteria by which these persons must be kept separate from those who are sentenced to minor prison sentences. We don't have any special office facilities in which they're being held, detention facilities in which they're being held,... where they're being held, because you know that... detention isn't – custody isn't a prison. The detention is to ensure the presence of a person against whom the proceedings are conducted. So, you're ensuring her presence in court, and she's being held in special conditions that are lighter than those that apply to persons who are sentenced to prison, to punishment, to a lesser penalty, and in particular we don't have separate institution in matters of juvenile perpetrators, adult perpetrators, and you know that under the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, according to the Convention on the Rights of the Child... need special protection. And this law will in no way solve the catastrophic situation in our punitive practice, and I think that the Justice Department has to do something here urgently that entities and the Brcko District have to do something urgent to improve the housing of convicted persons, especially... these categories that I have listed. Especially in order to secure themselves, they provide a service facility where women will not support the punishment along with men. We now have some institutions where women, some prison institutions, but these are issues that we need to resolve. Especially the question of the accommodation of the unaccountable perpetrators of criminal offences. I heard, yesterday Mr. Srđan Arnaut spoke on television: persons who support punishment, who support mandatory psychiatric treatment at health institutions, so we haven't had that measure since 2003. Our Criminal Law has abolished the mandatory 28 psychiatric treatment at a health care facility. You people -- believe in 2003 when the law was passed, the criminal law at BiH level, and later entity law -- such persons were released from prison in Zenica because they were found there, and the law abolished such a measure. Our criminal legislation, both criminal and criminal, fails to answer these questions. And I'm... today I'm not ready to support a law like this, because this would be some sort of partial solution: if in some office there's an excessive number that the minister is transferring from one office to another; I'm in favour of a system-based solution of BiH-level institutes, and, really, if we want to go to the road... Europe and the EU, we must first respect the Council of Europe Convention, because the Council of Europe is the threshold... through which it is crossed and entered into the EU. And these are European conventions, in particular they have European prison rules adopted last year; these are new European prison rules and I ask the ministry to... make one comprehensive analysis of BiH's office institutions, in particular... the number of convicted persons, the number of detained persons, and to deliver such an analysis to Parliament and to propose quality solutions based on such an analysis. All this until then... would not have answered the task and would not have achieved the purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u549	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. So, after we heard the word of the Justice Ministry's authority, a very heated debate opened up, strong arguments are being made. I suggest we hear all those who want to say something about this. After that, I would then, before voting on this, set a lunch break, if we could all consult a little,...in our clubs, we'd give up and we'd continue, therefore, to decide after the debate has been exhausted. Mr. Rajić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u550	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here is this short, very short text of the law, in fact the amendment and addition of the law shows that nothing can work in this country unless balance is established. And that's where it's supposed to come from. I respect all the reasons that have been presented on the left by those who support the proposal and those who are putting up a grudge. To this, to this intervention to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions we approach with a little more width and understanding of the reality we have. The situation in our penitentiary institutions is unfortunately the way it is and we cannot change it for a short time. But I don't see any serious reason, by respecting what Mrs. Čolo said, that it is necessary to approach the development of a system-based legal solution that will, in a whole way, solve this area of life for the closer to European standards and experiences, here, let's say, still, because life is going on there as well. But I see no reason why this small intervention in the law is not allowed, not to be accepted, to allow, however, the BiH Minister of Justice to finally decide and make some transfers. I would just like to remind you that we do not forget the recent experiences and media inscriptions and the reasons some prisoners have made in their demands to be moved. In some, in 29 situations, in some cases, in some tragedies of individuals, there were enough reasons for us to have such a legal standard to allow a transfer there when there are conditions and reasons for a person to seek a transfer. We are not going to change the situation in this way or significantly, we are not going to make it worse, but we are going to enable people to achieve a fundamental human right. I'm in favour of supporting a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u551	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u552	Of course, and I'm betting, if we're going to keep working, we're doing one systematic law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u553	We understood that from your message. Mr Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u554	Well, here I am, because there are really no criteria in this law that the minister would have to adhere to when he's working, he's implementing this law. So, I think it would only warm corruption in that sphere. I'll be against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u555	Thank you very much. We heard your position. Anybody else want a word? So, I'm taking a break now. We're here at 1400 hours, and until then, I'd like to ask you to consider voting on this bill. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] I agree that we have 13 representatives: five from Bosniak, five from Serbian and three from the Croatian people. We've exhausted the debate under point 11. We've had some time to think about how we're going to determine ourselves by that. We heard an authorised promoter, heard the proposer's argument. And I would now ask the MPs to state whether we are in favour of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures in the first reading. Who is Mr. Šaraba "for" proposal? 30 That's eight: five from RS, three federal votes. Who Is “against ”? The ‘against’ is five. It is necessary to comply, so in the College, since we don't have...most of them. So we can approach the second round of voting. This law will pass unless there are more than two-thirds of the votes "against" from one or another entity. So, I'm gonna ask you now. Who, then, is “against ” this law? So "against" is five, two-thirds is a little over five. This law has passed. Passed, passed, yeah. ...in a repeated round of voting has passed. In the second round of voting, it passed, according to a constitutional provision that was translated into the Rules of Procedure. If there's any dilemma, I won't go to point 12. The conclusion is that this law has passed, please. Excuse me, just a minute. The law passed in the first reading. As far as the conclusion is concerned, you had a proposal for a conclusion. No, you didn't give it to me. Here, right now, I am. I'm sorry. I just got it. So, he's proposed. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u558	/separated from microphone/ 31
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u559	So, is it a clear conclusion that is proposed? So am I opening up a discussion about this conclusion, or are we going to multiply it so that everyone can see what this is all about, or are we going to read it again, it's short.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u560	It is up to the parliamentary commission to engage a little more. That's the point in that area.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u561	So it's our joint commission of both homes. Is there anything in this conclusion? I'm opening a debate on the conclusion. I'm closing the debate and I'm putting it to the conclusion. Who Is For? We've already come to the conclusion, Professor Neimarlija. We've finished voting, the conclusion has passed. Is there something he wants to say? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u562	... I thought it was an intervention... Mr Ivanić, and
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u563	No, no. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u564	And I had a spare, I mean, I'm afraid some can't be
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u565	But here's how it stands there, and I accept what Mrs. Majkić said. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u566	Because... colleague Majkić, of course, knows that the conclusion cannot be bound by some, must be said which. Or everything, or what? [[Common discussion]] Because it's a bit of a dispute, I think. Not much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u568	The conclusion will go to the Joint Committee, so the Joint Commission will likely consider this syntagma as well. So that's it, that's it: some prisons. Thank you very much. 32 So we have now exhausted point 11. By accepting this conclusion and moving to point 12., that is: Ad.12. Proposal for a law on higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading - Proposer: Council of Ministers (application of the old Rules of Procedure), as the law entered into the procedure before this call. You've got the bill. You've also received a report from the Constitutional Commission. The Commission accepted 16 amendments that are identical to the amendments adopted in the House of Representatives and have become an integral part of the text of the bill. In the report on the anamdinamin delivered, in the debate with the Constitutional First Commission, the Committee, you have seen or will notice, see, I warn you, has proposed to the House to reach a conclusion that accepts the amendments listed in the Report, so the Report and that amendment, but one of these amendments is Amendment II. which suggests that, in all articles, the proposal for a framework law on higher education in the final editorial of text, all words to entities, both entity ministries, competent educational bodies, educational authorities in entities, and other syntagms that refer to both entities, replaced by the words – Republika Srpska, the Ministry of Republika Srpska, (the Ministry, whether so, the County, or the Canton and Brcko District) in an appropriate decline form. These amendments are the revisions of the draft law in a technical sense, which was positively stated by a representative of the Council of Ministers of BiH and which was also attended by a representative of the OHR. They are not, therefore, of nature and nature to agree between the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly because they are of a technical nature, so they will remove any doubt about their application. Therefore, the Commission proposes to draw a conclusion to the House of Peoples which accepts these amendments as repairs of the technical nature of the Bill's proposal and obliges the Rules of Procedure to implement the repairs of the technical nature prior to the publication of the law, as provided for by the amendments. So that's something that was unanimously accepted on the Constitutional Commission. This is the first reading, I said, in accordance with Article 90 of our Rules of Procedure and the old Rules of Procedure, and we will hold a debate on the necessity and principles on which this law is based. The Constitutional Commission has already carried out, you have seen for yourself, and the amendment phase, so amendments have been adopted. And I'm opening a debate over the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education. It is called the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, because in the parliamentary procedure a debate was held on the act delivered by the Council of Ministers, not on an act passed by the House of Representatives, and it was given a different name, so it is no longer a draft law, but a proposal for a framework law. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Is there a need for the chairman of the Constitutional Commission? Here you go, Mr. Jović. 33 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u570	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You have very qualityly transferred the admosphere from the Constitutional Legal Commission, explained the course of the session itself on the agenda point, when we discussed the circumstances of the Law on Higher Education and we have had several proposals for amendments, i.e. amendments or amendments to this law. Some of them have also been adopted and we have said: given that for years this law has been in the process, as one fact, second, that the law has passed that part through the House of Representatives and, third, that we are at that time when BiH needs to think about that this is one of the laws that will show the approximation of BiH to European standards and guided by it, I am transferring the atmosphere from the Constitutional Commission: we have introduced several of these repairs under technical, and not under any other law that would require us to extend the working phase of this law, which would mean agreeing and a new review of this law. That's Mr. Neimarlija's proposal. That's what you see here, Amendment I, in Article 5. The bill: medicine should also be changed to the words of the medical group of science, which I think corresponds to the real state. It should be pointed out that we also had by the proposings that each of these items, such as the reflection of the international community's proposings and representatives, and we agreed as you and explained our conclusion. And I would like to invite this home of ours to support this conclusion that we have offered on the Constitutional Commission that the syntagms referred to, that is, when it calls on the educational authorities, then both entity ministries or something like that, be converted into the spirit of constitutional jurisdiction, which means RS, canton and Brcko District.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u571	Who wants another word? So, we're having a discussion not yet about the amendments, we're having a debate on principles. We have also touched on the issue of the work of the Constitutional Commission, which has already been carried out by the amendment phase, but we must determine ourselves according to the first reading of this law. Anybody want a word? So I'm putting the bill in the first reading. Who's "for"? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Who is it? Wait, wait, eight. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u572	Again, come on!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u573	That's five from the Bosniak Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u574	Four. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u575	Four.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u576	Four from the club and four from the Serbian Club. Who is “against ” those principles? That's four. Who is “abstained ”? We're in a situation where we need to get a little bit; one; consent, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u577	It's four from the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u578	And four is from the Federation. Excuse me. We don't need to agree. He's passed the law on principle. I see something's wrong with me. So your voice is "abstained", it's an entity voice from the RS. Well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u579	It's not, it's not, wait!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u580	What do you mean, it's not? Four votes in the Federation are "for", three are "against".
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u581	No, four is “against. ” That's the problem. Yes, but we have from the Croatian Club three "against" and one from Bošnjak. There's nothing to argue about. Most of them are "for".
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u582	The majority is "yes", so the majority is "for" in an entity called the Federation. And most are "for", so a third is "for" and a third is "for"; that is constitutional provision and business. ________(?) And most of them are also “for. ” Let's move on. Let's move on. So, the bill was adopted in the first reading. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Who's in favor of having a discussion in another reading? 35 So who is in favor of having a discussion in another reading? Mrs. Majkić, what do you think of that? So we unanimously made a decision to conduct the discussion in another reading. In the second reading, we are having a debate on amendments and voting on the Bill's Proposal. And now we have one situation in which we have an amendment that renewed the Croatian Representatives' Club on the basis of the Constitutional Commission's conclusion that amendments that have not passed on the Constitutional Commission can be renewed at the session itself. This is now the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission, and the House should declare that conclusion. First, does the House accept that, at the sitting itself, it is possible to renew and defend the unfettered amendments to the Constitutional Commission? Please, therefore, it is a statement on whether this amendment can be tabled at the session and defended because it is not defended on the Constitutional Commission? That's the question! We're not voting on the amendment. Who's "for", please? Wait a minute, I'm just asking, this is possible for the House to make a decision. ... Here you go, Mrs. Alma.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u584	Business intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u585	Say it!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u586	The agenda says that the application of the old Rules of Procedure when it comes to this law and I think it's okay. Dear Representative Branko Zrno called for Article 103. Rules of Procedure. That Article 103. The Rules of Procedure speak of the budget, not at all about amendments to the law. When it comes to the old Rules of Procedure, article 89 regulates the issue of submitting amendments, but there is a deadline of 48 hours before the meeting of the House. Therefore, you cannot in conclusion amend the Rules of Procedure, because the application of the Rules of Procedure is prescribed so that I do not know how you will vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u587	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u588	Please, the Constitutional Commission cannot change the Rules of Procedure of the House!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u589	Please, Mrs. Alma, I respect your legal calling but, with this, if you'd just listen to me more carefully, you wouldn't have answered the line at all. I said precisely, this is a proposal from the Constitutional Commission and I asked the House to plead on that proposal. It's not a done act. But if he accepts it and accepts it before you say it, then we can plead, let the House refuse the amendment, it's no problem at all. Please, the Rules of Procedure brought home the 36. It's the Rules of Procedure that regulates the work of this home and the Dom can, whenever it wants, by ad hoc decision for a certain matter, make... some sort of business addition, change, etc. So, we didn't get into any legal... destruction. Of course I'll give you my word, but I've tried to be correct to what I suggested, which is why my colleagues raised their hands. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u590	Here, I can't ignore you, because I don't think the Rules of Procedure can be changed by a conclusion. The Rules of Procedure may only be amended by the Rules of Procedure on the amendment and addition of that Rules of Procedure. So, one such thing, I think what I said can help MPs make their decision when they vote on the conclusion that you're proposing. But if you insist on it, and here you are now claiming that... that you voted before what I said, then I really support my opinion. I'm against that conclusion, because I don't think it's in accordance with the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u591	Who wants another word? Here, we heard what Mrs Alma said, you heard what I said. We've already made that clear. We could now, if we accept the original decision, approach the statement on this amendment. Or, if you think that; Mr. Tihić, go ahead. You want to go out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u592	You see, we voted most of the votes, here, that this amendment can be found, but now after this warning there is one dilemma.... if we accept now in this case such an attitude, it will then be precedent that we can violate the Rules of Procedure and in other cases that appear. That's why I think we should vote again on this issue, because we didn't know about this business situation. Because there's a danger that tomorrow, you know, a similar law will appear, so we'll say, if we're allowed in this case, then we have to allow in later cases, and that's obviously a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have seen that there is agreement politically... there is no reason, but we are violating the Rules of Procedure, and we must take care of the Rules of Procedure again to see.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u593	Can I be the only one?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u594	Of course you can. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u595	Indeed, I protest that someone who cares about to pass an important amendment for him not to find it appropriate to look at the Rules of Procedure and read exactly which member he refers to, or how it is possible that he has to go within 48 hours; I remember that a bunch of my amendments fell once because I wasn't within 48 hours, they measured my hours. So... I think I have to take care of my colleagues from the Croatian club, really, in the future; you really have no excuse that you couldn't at least commit to a certain member and do it within the legal time limit. And this situation is absolutely unnecessary. We'd like more attention from this sort of thing in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u596	Thank you very much for this warning and this lecture. Croatian MPs know what they're doing. Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u597	: I would remind only that the Constitutional Commission discussed the repairs and amendments submitted by the Croatian Club at the time. And then there were three, three amendments to the amendment with this conclusion. That's when I said, and so I made it clear: when we reach the conclusion that we are staying with that amendment that hasn't been adopted by the House and that he's going, he's going to go to the House. Protocolary nature is probably a failure then. And just like that. And it's not moral. On the Constitutional Committee, we said that we were staying with this and the proposal to adopt the conclusion, we said that the conclusion concerns two amendments, and one amendment remains for the House. And that was the reason. We have, for the sake of those who have not been on the Constitutional Commission, made an excerpt from that which we have submitted... submitted those repairs. If in this case, I agree, too, but I hope that for four years of work we will be consistent by the end, although this, I repeat, I do not see any element of breaking the moral principle of what is written in our Rules of Procedure because, I repeat, we have reached such a conclusion on the Constitutional Commission. If it's a violation, we won't accept a breach. We are in favour of the rule of law that we will support on each side, as much as it is in our domains of work, and if it evaluates, Mr. President, the Honorable House to violate it, I, as the vice president of our club, am prepared to withdraw the heavy hearts so that I can't discuss it and then be allowed to discuss what cannot be debated at this point, it seems to me, perhaps, and most importantly because it was possible to make a decision and say: that correction is not good or most will make a decision, but it could at least be debated. This makes it impossible to discuss one law that has been in the Constitutional Court for five years, when the Proposer says with a statement that not all elements of the Constitutional Court have been taken and are not incorporated into the Bill's proposal. When it comes to a vital issue of national interest, so as not to allow discussion and debate, I cannot understand it, regardless of all the legal and other regulations. But I'm gonna stay, I repeat, with what it's about. We have tabled an amendment to the name of the entire academic community of BiH, all universities and universities because we see that – if this is not incorporated, law-making is groundless, law-making is groundless. Why? Because bodies are formed at BiH level that recommend, offer advice, give advice and make recommendations. 38 I would like to see what this law means to offer advice, to make recommendations, and to see whether it is a legal norm. On the occasion of the debate on this matter, I needed to, in order to hear the public, to hear the public in which or what the problem is that we have here. So, we have a problem building up a solution to this law that tries, has a desire, has an intention, and those who have proposed it, and we who will bring it, agreeing to higher education as an important issue of development with European principles. We are going to Europe with proposed changes in higher education in which the mobility of students, the mobility of professors, the passing of students, and we are actually going to create an environment in which 13 agencies will form for..., 13 agencies, I repeat, 10 county, one Republika Srpska, Brcko District and the BiH Agency. Here, Bog help us, how we will come to standards that we will bring into line with European interests! It's the only thing that matters, and the agency with these proposals is the agency that's formed based on parity: it makes decisions by consensus and has a rotation. Three keywords in which no one could be damaged. That's what we wanted to discuss, we know that no decision would be made, but we just wanted to discuss it. I'm sorry. Maybe it wasn't on my side to talk about it correctly, but I wanted to explain why we wanted to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u598	Let's not go too far in the debate. So, Čolo's colleague was totally, just to say, right on the ground. So he refers to the old Rules of Procedure and it's probably a technical mistake. But... so from this point forward... we don't insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure. And if the new Rules of Procedure in one provision therefore speaks – now it is about the old Rules of Procedure and you are right – and the new Rules of Procedure, even when it says unanimous decisions of the Commission: they may even be mandatory points of the agenda. So it's something that gives a whole new dimension to the old Rules of Procedure. ... but we also heard what the vice president of the club said and I am obliged, therefore, to be obliged from the correctness I want, which I have built, and in the future, to put on a plea, so again... if Miro does not withdraw this amendment to the name of the club, then it is unnecessary to declare whether we will! Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u599	I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u600	I'm just asking. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u601	Complication and I think being consistent means being ignorant.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u602	In other words, I conclude the amendment has been withdrawn. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u603	That's right. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u604	So the amendment was withdrawn. ............... For business reasons, the amendment has been withdrawn. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u605	We'll stay consistent, I guess, in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u606	I just wanted to, no matter what it is, I have a feeling, I need to say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u607	But we continue the debate in the second reading, so here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u608	Yeah. I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u609	It's about the amendments that aren't there.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u610	Even if it is... a business problem, even if it is, right now, as a man I speak, I think everyone should be allowed to say what they have. And as in me, there is one dilemma, that everything we hear today at the House of Peoples is not said at the House of Representatives when it comes to the Croatian Club, what we heard today. Why is it not, none of this is said at the House of Representatives, and there, what is now being insisted in the House of Peoples, was not the subject of the House of Representatives! Is that some sort of ex post, something later that came along? I'm left with the dilemma, but I'm willing to support the discussion. If any amendments will pass, it's a matter of the majority, but, uh, talking to each other, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u611	Thank you very much. I'm just obliged to say it briefly. So the amendment that requested accreditation and licensing at the state level was in the House of Representatives that did not pass. So this is a renewed amendment to the Croatian Club. And the House of Representatives is a civil home, and this is where vital national interests are protected which we think that accreditation and licensing is. It is something that would rise to the state level, and then someone might say it is not exactly in line with constitutional solutions on education policy in BiH. Well, then, he can also object to it, it's not a vital national interest, but it's certainly the interest of the Croatian people to have a law like this. But that's another story, so maybe for another time, for another session, that this is the law we have, if we're going to say that we have something that's a Bologna process and you have a law like this at the state level. But it is obvious that there is no political will for such a thing at this time. This amendment has already been withdrawn and we wouldn't be discussing it now. I, therefore, am opening the debate, continuing the debate. We don't have an amendment, we're in second reading. Who wants a word? Mr. Rajić, please. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u612	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, all those present and those who can hear what we're talking about today, I've spoken to this session several times and every time I've relied on something that's experienced. In this country we should accept as a rule of conduct that the balance of relations, the balance of respect for each other, the balance of suffering between us – is the only condition of our survival and progress. Obviously, sometimes and formalistly, we refer to essential issues and end up where we end up. Well, good. What counterpart Jović wanted to elaborate here, we will use our right as representatives, primarily because of the Bosnian-Herzegovina public. Then because of the international community's dignitaries who are here to help us, not only in this matter but also in many others, but especially because of the Croatian people we are representatives of here, his vital national interests: we will elaborate what we wanted to fix in this law so that it can be acceptable for us too. In doing so, we cannot and cannot remind ourselves of this, in addition to these findings that Mr Jović has already said, that this procedure has been going on for years and that we have had solutions that have been so good that have been destroyed in the Constitutional Court and I am not sure that they will not be torn down and succeeded again. So it's a law that has a special social weight, because it's a law that regulates the area of higher education, the area of science, a law that would have to be the generator of this country's development, whatever it is today. It is a law that represents one of several key conditions for BiH to enter the accession process, a debate on its path to the EU, a law that would have to make it possible to apply so-called. The Bologna process, although the law itself does not make any guarantee by its structure that it will provide, it is a law which is a couple of excellent questions about the vital national interest of every constituent people in BiH and, unfortunately, what must be said today, not in terms of the claim but in terms of perception, it was not enough hearing to make a law that would also be European, which would provide for the Bologna process, which would open the science and knowledge process in general, which would establish the same position for all three sovereign, constitutive peoples in BiH and that would meet the criteria that science in one country and education at a high level should have. So we are offered a law which, thanks to all those involved, has suffered significant repairs, actually interventions in terms of repairs, so a provision has been deleted that some agency without any authority can determine when two legal entities such as universities will join, instead of deciding for themselves, which is their original and autonomous right, so that this repair has made this law for some change or some percentage better than it was. This amendment, which I hold, has been practically accepted,... which has proposed a Constitutional Commission on eradicating those technical misunderstandings that could lead us to serious consequential delusions, that this law is also trying to fix it for at least a few more percent and do it, bring it closer to all of us who are here and in this home, but also to the citizens of BiH and all the peoples, making it more acceptable. However, here you see, we have been brought into a situation that we are not allowed to talk today about one of the three most important issues in our assessment, according to the assessment of the Croatian Club, the Academy Community of the University of Mostar, by the assessment of Croatian intellectuals and, not to say more, 41 of the most... structure. There are three key questions about this law, none of which have met the minimum criteria. So, we Hrvat now find ourselves as a people, as his representatives in a very specific situation. Whenever we are in favour of integrated solutions, at BiH level, partial interests prevail that make us laugh about the impossible cartoons. If I speak in my mind, just remember some fresher and a little more puzzling events, and you'll see that's the case. When we try to search for our own identity to look for partial solutions that will be part of the building's entire, then again some global interests break us down and we shoot each time into the blank. And today we shoot empty. We may be drawn to the ears, marked, named, but today, with full responsibility to the entire domestic and world public, we say: this law is not in the spirit of Europe, it is not in the spirit of BiH, it is not in the spirit of equality and equality of these three constituent peoples in BiH. Why? Because of the three essential criteria none is fulfilled. First criterion: we wanted to pass a law on higher education, not even entering the constitutional foundation of this law, which, least of all, Mrs. Čolo, is a hundred times more problematic than this provision of the Rules of Procedure that we have called upon today. But here, let it be. We wanted a law at BiH level that in a unique and comprehensive way, not as a framework law but as a substantive, real law, would regulate the entire area of higher education. Others, who also have the right to think, to decide as we have, have not shown interest in such a law. Why? Let's put that aside now. Instead, we are offered a law that no longer knows who will have what it will have in jurisdiction in unspecified formulations, instead of having jurisdiction in one place, in one country for all universities in BiH according to the same criteria, according to the same principles. We wanted to. We believe that we have all sinned together, we have sinned, and the mistakes we most feel are those of the Croatian people and the University Community in Mostar. Another important rule of law that does not have is joint funding from the same register, from the same pain, whether it is gourmet as it is said in this country or that it is wasteful. Let's all be equal to the same criteria. Again, the relationship of power is such, said Mr Filipović, political will will we will not share our poverty or our well-being. We've locked ourselves in our own partial environments, and we think we'll survive better. So, even the second criterion, we haven't solved the funding. And third, what is extremely important, for licensing and accreditation, we create a tragic institution at BiH level that he wanted to fix with his interventions, Professor Jović, we create an accreditation and licensing agency that has a role to advise, recommend, observe, warn, and there is no original authority. And when we want to amend that institution's unusableness, and that, instead of 13 future ones, it will be one, unique, common, parity, rotational, consensual, then we don't come across understanding. So, with all these repairs that I respect, this law as it is, it is not acceptable for the Hrvat in BiH. No, because in another transaction, this time called the Law on Higher Education, it puts us in an absolutely unequal position towards Srbin and Bošnjak 42 in this country. We may not be, we will not come to an understanding this time, we have not encountered many times before, but I assure you – if we have ever spoken from the soul and heart in this House about the integrated perception of BiH and its future, we are talking today. That's why this law is not acceptable to us. Let's do something, if not today, in the near future, that we can make this law really not indicative, but essential, content law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u613	Thank you very much. Here, we have heard an elaborated position on this act by the Croatian People's Club in the House of Peoples of this Parliament. Who wants another word? We'll give Mr. Tihić a chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u614	I think that really, at least here in the House of Peoples, we must always take care of national interests and that we should not – I do not want to vote simply for any law that would hurt the national interest of any people. I also don't want to challenge every club's right to interpret what their national interest is. Here, when it comes to this and the previous discussion, I find it difficult... to understand that this law hurts the national interest of only Hrvat without being injured, let's take it in a certain way, both Bošnjak or Srbin. These remarks Mr. Rajić made... that one law, joint funding, one accreditation office, I agree entirely. But then we have a problem... dissatisfaction and the Serbian club and the adoption of that law in the House of Representatives and here in the House of Peoples, you know. It's very difficult to reconcile these interests, you know, for all three peoples to be satisfied. I believe that this law, as it was adopted in the House of Representatives, represents some measure, and that it does not matter with that law the national interest of neither Hrvat nor Bošnjak... nor Srbin. And that is why we and our club are aware of all of the shortcomings Mr Rajić was talking about, took the view that the law should be passed, among other things, and because of what it means to adopt that law when it comes to BiH's Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, and what Mr Rajić says, it is still the first time that we have received the law at BiH level. There's time on some different occasions politically and everything else, we can fix it, you know. I would like to adopt this law today, too, but also so that no one leaves this meeting with a feeling that it is majorised, that it is too loud, that someone's national interest, national interest, here, Hrvat, to whom we are specifically invited, because I think that BiH can be built, we can build BiH's unity in diversity, respecting everyone, all interests, because that's the only way BiH can survive, no matter how and as right as possible. You Hrvat who represent the Croatian interest, I think they are the only ones who are authorized and the only ones who need to say whether this is the injured interest. From this position, from which I am looking, I believe... that the national interest of Hrvat, as well as others, is not important and that the highest national interest of Hrvat and Srbin and Bošnjak is that we sign, to meet the conditions and sign the Stabilisation Association Agreement, and if Bog, in time, in some other times and occasions, we will fix this law, so maybe it will come... the time and common one accreditation, one licensing office, I don't know you, financing, but now this is something that is realistic and that opens the way for us to a new phase of the BiH movement process to the EU. 43 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u615	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. I get the impression we're at the end of the debate. Can we bring the end? Here you go, Jović. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u616	: I just heard from you about that repair, and now about the debate, so I have no need for a long debate, except for a few very important remarks of this occasion. The Law on Higher Education passed two years ago under the heading of the Law on Higher Education. Embarking with the vital national interests of Hrvat, because it was recommended for the vital interests of Hrvat, two draft laws were drawn up. One was formed by the University of Mostar expert group and the other by the Council of Ministers. To this day, and for a year and a half in the Council of Ministers, the law of Mostar has not yet been seen. Why, I don't know! And I also find it comprehensive, correct, consistent with what the Constitutional Court asked for. Today, as a representative in the House of Nations, I have before me a bill that is not in Croatian. It refers to science. I must say my bitterness and grief. At least I could get it in Croatian. Also, I want to say that when it comes to content, very quickly, gentlemen, and that month or two days in practice will show up, it will be for you, who today are scramblingly defending these settings here, to break your head, not to me because I noticed it in time. And that is that Bihac, Zenica, Sarajevo and Tuzla will have one university and one accreditation agency. What do we compare it to? This will compare the criteria in one county, and the county has the authority to set up an accreditation and licensing agency here. With Europe or with someone else? Another thing I want to say when it comes to college students. This is exactly what I have to say: how can it be found here? There was no funding, and the decision was found, or article on these scholarships. So he says... there will be recommendations to be even. At least it could be said that students in BiH will pay the same tuition, so together they bear the risk, not that they will recommend it, but that each will decide how much tuition will be individually in those 12 agencies. So, in the district of one, in the RS of the other, because in RS they have two universities. The Agency for Accreditation and Financing has at least as much logic as the Mostar County, i.e. I apologize to the Hercegovina-Neretva County. Also, I would like to say: perhaps in this country it is very important for us to have the cover of the law, and we will be clean before our own and other civic conscience. We've brought something and it's there, and what's in it, and how good it is, how much it's going to be for, we'll just have to see. I... expressing in this regard the poorly imagined goals that this law will achieve, I do not think it favours the academic community in BiH, and that will prove to be the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u617	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. 44 So we heard some more remarks now that we didn’t even have the amendment in the commission phase, but they also stand in the final line. It's hard against this argument we've heard, but it's hard to get clearly political support for such political views, is it? I'm asking... is there anyone else in need? Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u618	The chairman, members of the College Presidency, delegates, guests, I had no intention of being involved in the debate over this law, regardless of my strong reasons and personal motives. However, I am involved, however, in an additional commitment, first of all, by discussing my fellow Rajić, who spoke about the necessity or the trouble that can only save us, which is to harmonize our differences and since it is about the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, it was also an exceptional challenge for me to express all my reasons for the law and the value of the laws for the survival of human communities, but also for the values of education, for the existence of human communities, especially their progress, to face the simple truth that powerful countries are, there are powerful peoples, where we have developed education and where we have powerful legal systems. And that... education, or the development of knowledge, is, in particular, highly differentiated knowledge and legality, the legal solution to the problem in the human community, is one of the essential elements and quality of life and the quality of the future that these communities and people can have. Sharing these particular reasons, and in private sharing views of the needs of the law, which Jović also issued, so I have, here, trouble or need to say at the same time that I am in favour of the law, regardless of what it is that I disagree with. No matter how much I know we have our circumstances in mind, which has been passed before by the Law on Higher Education and that we could have passed a better law before. A more qualitative law in terms of consent only to go to legal solutions, so legal solutions to problems that we share, to respect what we share in our problems and to find a solution only for what is common. We have a common need to have good colleges, we have a common need to have uniform criteria with European standards. However, whether we can just justify ourselves with goodwill or a lack of goodwill, I personally have solved and resolved this problem of my own in a way that, by choosing between the law that I consider to be bad and no law, I agree to... give my chance to the first, bad law, counting both on our responsibility and on our awareness of the importance of this issue of education that needs to be legalized and legally solved both by that and improving better legal solutions. I remain in my decision, and I express my deep respect for the reasons that my colleague Jović and Rajić expressed and, for my part, if I have the right to call my colleagues, and I have as much as I know here with my colleague Ivanić as I share the additional responsibility of members of the academic community who is also twice obliged to participate more in this legislative project, that I believe we will have the strength to have this first legal act, this first legal arrangement of the higher education system in BiH is being promoted and developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-07-30-0.u619	Thank you very much, Mr. Neimarlija. 45 Does anyone else want a word? If we've exhausted the debate, and it seems we have, I would suggest that we now declare the bill, the report and the conclusion in that report. Shall we wait for Mr. Tihić? I think so. Mr. Tihić, we're waiting for you for a plea. I wish you'd told us, please. Please, I will now put on the statement of the draft law in the second reading, with the report of the Constitutional Commission, which means with all amendments and with the conclusion, with the permission of the Secretariat to implement this conclusion and adapt the possibilities for the implementation of that conclusion. I quite understandably said that. I quite understandably said... which is your job and that means there's no compliance with the House of Representatives, in case this law goes through. I am now warmly asking you who is "for" this law, with the report, and this conclusion that is in that report? One, two, three, four, five, eight. Who is “against ” that law? One, two, three, four. Who is “abstained ”? One. So, this law has passed. It has the entity majority and the Federation and the RS. And I hope that it will last very briefly as it is, because I support every word that Professor Neimarlija said, because it is a compatible story and rhetoric that we Hrvat have and I believe that we will have, therefore, a law that will satisfy all the academic communities in BiH very quickly. So we got the law. I'm sorry he's against the will of the Croatian people, but we couldn't raise hands for such a law. So we've exhausted point 12 that way. Moving to point 13, that's Ad.13. Granting consent to ratify the Second Additional Protocol with the European Convention on Legal Assistance The House of Representatives agreed to be your only rapper before deciding. Who's in favour of giving consent to ratifying this act? Can we please vote this out? Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted and agreed to ratify this act. It's below 14. Ad.14. Giving consent to ratify BiH Agreement with United Arab Emirates 46
