ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u12995	Gentlemen, honourable Members, I am opening the 14th session of the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament. I welcome you all once again. The absence from this session was justified by the same people who justified and absent from the plenary session. And this time we had, as is the practice, certain changes and additions to the agenda compared to what you received as a proposal for the agenda. This is caused by the work of the commission, by some new circumstances, by the arrival of the report, by the failure to meet the procedural conditions etc. So, in the shortest time, at the request of the Joint Security and Intelligence Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, the 14th and 15th points were removed, namely: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Protection of Secret Information (First Reading) – Proposer: Niko Lozančić i - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH (First Reading) – Proposer: Niko Lozančić. The 18th item of the proposed agenda was also removed: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act (first reading) – Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, since the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has not completed the procedure in the first phase of the review. ...so this download is for procedural reasons, non-compliance with the conditions for consideration today. Two points are included in the agenda, so: 2 - Request from the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs to consider Proposal for a Law on the application of the Amending and Accession Agreement to the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, so we were obliged to put her on the agenda today's session. It is also included: - Proposal for an amendment to the Decision appointing members, a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the Decision appointing members for appointment as auditor-general and vice-general auditor in the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Therefore, amendments and additions to this decision appointing the Commission for the selection of auditors. And we have also been put on the agenda: - Giving consent to ratification of the agreement, meanwhile, and we have a report from the Commission: - Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of projects in favour of the judiciary or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina and - Funding Agreement - additional financing of the Community Development Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Association for Development. Therefore, amendments and additions to the agenda proposals were agreed at a session of the Extended College... held on 4 September. You're on the bench, I hope, all of you, get a refined agenda proposal in the spirit of what I've put out here. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u12997	Dear colleagues and colleagues, by the name of the SDP Club and the National Club, I suggest that the point in this proposal, which was presented before the beginning of the session, is to be considered as the 20th item of the agenda – that we place it in the agenda as the 2nd item of the agenda. I don't want too much of an explanation about this proposal except for two things. I think it would be good before, or at the very beginning of the session to resolve it in principle, here in Parliament – whether we want the public to have the opportunity to monitor the work of this highest legislative body in BiH in a transparent manner or not. So let's define ourselves in principle. And secondly, why would I suggest that it be the 2nd point of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u12998	May I have your attention, please? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u12999	For the reason that this is affecting the good part and business matter, since the Rules of Procedure have been currently in force and I therefore propose that we put it as the 2nd point of the agenda, and not as the 20th, as is now proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13000	Thank you. You heard the proposal of MP Denis Bećirović in the name of the SDP Club and the National Club. Any further suggestions? Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13001	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the SDP Club, today a request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers, in terms of change, has been protocold by a request for a change, namely the resignation of Sven Alkalaj, the foreign minister of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13002	I didn't get that, unfortunately, Mr. Križanović, but here, it's never too late.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13003	It's never too late, if, here, I just want to let you know if there's no mood to put this in the agenda today, I'd like to ask that it be treated according to this request in accordance with the article... Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13004	The College will consider the request and put it on the agenda. No problem at all. We'll check the procedure, Mr. Križanović, but unfortunately, I didn't get that request. The college didn't get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13005	Please. So here's if there's no readiness, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13006	It's not about preparedness. I didn't win at all, or the College didn't get that paper. It's the first time we've heard of him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13007	Okay. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13008	We didn't hear it yesterday at the Expanded College when we created the agenda. We could have done it, but, look, give it to you, we'll put it in the process and put it in the next session. No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13009	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13010	There are procedures, and we will respect every proposing, of course. Here you go. Here, this is how I conclude the debate on the agenda. A proposal to amend the agenda emerged from the debate. In fact, it's practically just a change of order. The SDP MPs' club proposes that point 20 be point 2. So point 20, which reads - Direct TV broadcasts session of the Parliamentary Assembly (Admission of the National Club and the SDP Club) to be second instead of on the 20th. We discussed this proposal at the Enlarged College and the Extended College did not reach a consensus on this change of order. Please prepare yourself, or prepare to vote on Mr Denis Bećirović's proposal. Please vote now! 12 votes "yes", "no" 18, there is no absolute majority. So, no SDP and National Club proposal for changing points, order of agenda points has been accepted, and... this way we have the following Let me read it in order to be evient in the record. 1. Parliamentary questions and answers; 2. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development (the law in first reading); 3. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Wine, Cancer and Other Products of Grapes and Wine (Law in First Reading); 4. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MEP Ekrem Ajanović to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes 5 genocides and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure; 5. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Conclusions Proposal on the Implementation of the Conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH concerning the Map of the BiH Citizens from Guantanamo of 7.3.2007, MPs (a) Zlatko Lagumdžija, (b) Azra Hadžiahmetović, (c) Remzija Kadrić, (d) Slavko Jovičić and (e) Bakir Izetbegović; 6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija to discuss Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2006; 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. In this case, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, the European Parliament and the Council, together with the European Parliament and the Council, the Rules of Procedure; 9. Proposal for a law on the protection of integrated car schedules (second reading), 10. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Procedure (second reading), 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading); 13. Proposal for a law on free legal aid in civil disputes (second reading); 14. Imposed Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport (First Reading), 12 / 15 Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration (first reading); 16. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs; 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act (first reading) – Proposer of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs; 18. Report on the implementation of the budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2006; 19. Discussing the report of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions on the 2006 audit, including the BiH Ministry of Justice, the B.C. Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, Offices and Services, the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport, the BiH Presidency, the 6th BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the BiH Law Department, the BiH State Service Agency, and the Directorate for the Implementation of Police Resolution; 20. Direct TV transmission of the Parliamentary Assembly session (proposal of the National Club and the SDP Club); 21. Amendment to the Decision appointing the members of the Commission for the selection of the Auditor-General and of the Vice-General in the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH; 22. Giving consent to ratification a. Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of projects for the benefit of the judiciary or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the B. Funding Agreement, i.e. additional financing of the Community Development Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. So this is the established agenda, or agenda, that has been established for today's session. We're going to work. May I have your attention, please? We're moving on to Ad. 1. MPs' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13013	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I received answers to four questions between the two sessions. With the answers to three questions, I am pleased and grateful for the answers. With one answer, I'm not satisfied, but I'm rather disappointed and shocked. Among others, I have referred the question to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA - What can they and intend to do to protect the remaining assets of the company "Agrokomerc“ velik Kladuša, which has been exposed for many years, and these days, to unprecedented robbery and destruction? I received an answer from the Council of Ministers that they have no jurisdiction over these allegations, which is not funny but sad. After that, the strangest answer came from SiPA signed by Deputy Director Sead Lisak, who also calls for the Council of Ministers' response and continues, says Agrokomerc is in the jurisdiction of the Federal Privatisation Agency and points me to federal authorities. I must remind Mr. Liska that SIPA has already investigated the crime in Agrokomerc and identified dozens of cases of crime. Their further processing has been blocked, I don't know who that someone is. I've even got the S.I.A.P.D.'s on it, and if Mr. Lisak doesn't have them in the archives, I can deliver them. So I ask that the SIPA issue be restored... with these reminders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13014	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. So, you're repeating your parliamentary question. Zlatko Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13015	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I asked a parliamentary question at the 10th session. It's 14. Here, I got it. I thank you for your answer. It is well known to you, Mr. Chairman, that I have received confirmation from this House that I did not make a coup. Then I was accused in this parliament of being prosecuted by the court and the prosecutor's office, so I asked it as a question and I got this one; practically others asked a question, I'm sorry, so this one got the answer that as far as the BiH courts and prosecutors are concerned, I'm also not a criminal. Then I asked the IRS if I owed a tax and that I was charged with tax evasion. So I got the answer, is whether, literally, it says that, on the basis of the personal income of citizens, property, so what you pay beyond pay and all taxes, that since I've been in this Parliament, or in the last ten years, I've paid 61,150,00 tax marks as much as I'm in charge as the taxpayer. In other words, I'd like to thank you for getting confirmation here and, as far as taxes are concerned, that everything is fine, so I'd like to ask that this is just delivered if it takes public insight, just so much. And about the next case of parliamentary matters. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13016	I didn't understand what to deliver?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13017	This response only to be made available to the media by which, therefore, I thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13018	Okay. Comment on Denis Bećirović's response.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13019	I would first like to express my disdain for a number of questions that MPs in the House of Representatives, including myself, have not received answers so far. However, in order to not immediately be dramatic at this session, I announce that at the next session, we will update the conclusion of the House of Representatives which refers to ministers in the Council of Ministers. And let me remind you: we have concluded that those ministers who are discrediting and neglecting their obligations as ministers to this House of Representatives who chose to raise the issue of their resolutions. In that sense, not to say that we're in a hurry, we're announcing the next session for those who are deaf about our conclusions. And of those answers that came in, I have to comment on this answer that I asked on 15 March 2007, and the question was: - What are you planning and what are you going to do specifically in the term of 2007-2010 to extract Tuzla and northeastern Bosnia from traffic communication isolation. And I got an answer from which a very clear one sentence can be drawn – nothing! Nothing concrete! From 2002 to 2010, the same government in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will sell the same story to people in the Tuzlan region: making study, making project documentation, researching justification, designing ideas, etc. And of course, before every general election, that story is updated until the end. That is why I express my dissatisfaction with this issue and predict the very specific issue right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13020	Answering dissatisfaction, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13021	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13022	That you're not satisfied with the answer. You're talking.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13023	I'm not happy with the answer, and I'm supplementing the question. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13024	You said you weren't happy with the question?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13025	No, no, I am not happy with the answer, and I am supplementing it and I am looking again for an answer to this question that reads: - How many specifically miles of highway in the Tuzlan region will you do by 2010? And I remind you that since 2002, this has been promising to the Tuzlan region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13026	Thank you. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13027	Mr. Chairman, I've asked a question, one of the questions I've received an answer, there are a lot of questions I haven't received an answer to. Yes, I asked the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance, the Attorney General and the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. And of all of them, all I got was a reply from the director of the indirect taxation agency that sent me about a hundred pages that didn't say anything, so today I'm going to repeat my question with some evidence that I'm going to add to the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13028	Thank you. Prodanović Lazar and in the end Bahtić Sadik, when it comes to the comments of the answers you received.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13029	The chairman, it's not a comment, it's a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13030	I'm sorry, you were reported here when I asked for a comment. So we still have a comment from Mr. Bahtić Sadik, so we'll move on to the setup.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13031	I didn't mean to comment, but later.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13032	The comment is on the answer you received to your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13033	A comment. That's right, I, after Dr. The Zlatko of Lagumdžija. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13034	Don't comment on Lagumdžija. You have the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13035	I have an answer, and I'm happy with the answer. But in that, no, I mean it's not true that it's in that answer, because the IRS only gave... to what was reported. The problem is that Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija didn't report any extraordinary...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13037	You have to prove and ask further.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13038	Well, I want that question now. And the public needs to know that Dr. Lagumdžija has deceived the public and the citizens, because he has not reported the extraordinary income he received illegally from the Faculty of Economics.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13039	That's what we need to ask the authorities to...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13040	Well, for the record, Dr. Lagumdžija isn't clean, that he took money from taxpayers' money and didn't pay back.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13041	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13042	So you can get what you want, but you didn't report it. Call it in, Dr. Lagumdjia.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13043	Thank you. This is how we conclude our comments on the answers received. We have a new MP, only a little bit,... so I have registered: Živković, Lozančić, Zorić, ZadrovićProdanović Lagumdžija, Milica Marković, Kalabić, Jovičić, Ivanković, Sefer Halilović, Bahtić, Bećirović, Erić, Nanić. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13044	Did you call me?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13045	In high third place. I'm just warning you that we have twenty points of the agenda, but we said that we would be rational and we would define ourselves for integration, etc. Okay. Okay. That we don't waste time. Let's not waste any time, Mr. Živković. Ask questions, but don't explain too much. We believe in the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I don't see anyone from the Department of Defense here. This question could be answered very easily. - Why has no agreement on the organisation and functioning of religious service in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces that has been prepared so far, and ten months are waiting for the signing of it. In fact, it could be very easy to answer that question when the agreement will be signed, because it is practically all agreed, they just need to meet; July 2nd was the date that was set. However, representatives of certain religious communities did not come to that date and only for this reason cannot other actions be carried out in this regard. Here, I'd just like an answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13047	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Next up is Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13048	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question that I believe is of interest to the entire Bosnian Herzegovina public, and the question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and the Regulatory Agency for Communications and that reads: - What is the justification... of the Communications Regulatory Agency for the introduction of the national roaming fee between three mobile phone operators in BiH since 1.8.2007. A year.? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13049	Thank you, Mr. Lozančić. Mr. Zorić. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13050	BiH's Official Messenger No. 64 of 27 August 2007 published a decision on the closure of BiH's diplomatic and consular representations in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Johannesburg, South Africa's Republic and Bona, Germany. I ask the foreign minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina the following questions: 1. Who, and on the basis of what criteria, has proposed the abolition of these three DKP BiHs? 2. Has the promoter discussed the closure of other BiH DKPs on the basis of the same criteria in the context of the announced rationalisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's diplomatic network? 3. How much will BiH save by abolishing these three DKPs? How much damage BiH will have from the fact that it abolishes the only embassy in South America, or so on. Black Africa, and what kind of political message does this want to send? I stress that BiH has embassies in several gulf countries: Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Jordan, and that some of these countries have not opened their embassy in BiH day and day. I asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs to see all these facts. So, what I'm talking about right now is not a matter of writing, and next time my reaction is going to be completely different and, here, I'd like my question to be a stenogram. I demand that this question be answered by the next session, no matter what question I have not received so far, because what has been done so-called. The rationalization isn't allowed, and I don't think it was. I know the answer to both the first and second question – I don't think there were criteria and there were no considerations which of these six would have been precisely targeted which embassies, i.e. diplomatic representations, were abolished abroad, so BiH diplomatic representations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13051	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13052	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, before we move to question, I would just like to remind you of one promise. I hope that the College will meet it, that you will organise a day for parliamentary issues that will be attended by all ministers, so from the Council of Ministers, and that the public will be the most direct responses to what is the issue of Parliament and the executive authority. My question... is addressed to the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, which refers to – on the occasion of this issue is the report, a negative report in the failures of spending on the unit and the implementation of projects of the Psychiatric Hospital "Podromania" Sokolac. 13 - I am interested in, therefore, who are, who are the persons appointed to the Supervisory Board of this unit; who makes it; how much funds has been spent so far in the work of this Supervisory Board; what is this project; what is the capacity of this hospital (there is forensic psychiatry for the Court of Justice of BiH) and what... management and personnel structure of this hospital will be solved in the future? Is this about a new facility or an old psychiatric hospital on Sokoc? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13053	Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13054	I thank you, Chairman. So, I would like to refer a question to the Central Election Commission; the addressee is very clear. You, Mr. Chairman, are aware that in May of this year, the Central Election Commission made a decision to punish the SDP for alleged overruns in the 2004 donations, although it had previously given Parliament a report in which there was no such thing. The public, and you know that the BiH Court of Appeal, by its decision, annulled the CEC's decision and brought it back. In August of this year, the CEC appeared in the media and instead of respecting the Court's decision they announced... that they would punish us again. It'll all go its own way. I don't know what the Electoral Commission will do. I don't believe they're capable of clashing with the court, if they already have a warrant or want to go into political action with the SDP. However, on the same day as the campaign was launched again by the Central Election Commission that it would punish us again beyond the Court's decision – and I would not be surprised to see them do so these days – a re-election political haika by the Election Commission has started and I want some answers to be given. In fact, the same day as the President of the Election Commission announced in the media what he announced was an ongoing investigation, not more against me than now against my family's members about the conflict of interest. I welcome and I am pleased that the Election Commission has launched this and I want to ask this question before this Parliament to oblige them to complete the investigation and inform this parliament. So my question is: 1. Why, how, when and on what basis and what result has the investigation against my family ended? 2. Why didn't they question me because that's what the law obliges them to do, because they did it to a member of my family, that is why they didn't inform me or the public about how the law ordered them to launch an investigation, especially what they found? I repeat: I welcome that they have launched the investigation, but I want the public to report it as well. 14 3. Was there any violation of the Law of Conflict of Interest by me, of any member of my family? I'd also like to hear back from you. 4. How many total investigations have been launched since the adoption of the Law of Conflict of Interest from 2002 to today against officials and how many against their family members in the manner that this was done to me, or my family? 5. Who and when will all of the members of the Electoral Commission respond if it turns out that this is the only investigation of this kind, if it is found that there has been no conflict of interest, if this is found to be the only investigation against the executive and legislative authorities at the state level from the rank of members of Parliament, the Council of Ministers and members of the Presidency, since the existence of the Law on Conflict of Interest? In fact, if these investigations I welcome were to be completed without evidence of a breach of the Law of Conflict of Interest, this would show unequivocally the political motives of fighting with the SDP president through members of his family. Six. Will the Electoral Commission launch a similar investigation against any leader of the ruling parties, any member of the Presidency, any minister, any member, here, let's say, the College of Parliament, or at least any of the leaders of the entity authorities, and I see them now at meetings, and when will they inform the public? Seven. In order not to ask when and how the Election Commission will inform the public of the findings of this investigation, I call on them to respond to all these parliamentary questions to all the executive and legislative authorities, and to deliver it in full capacity to the public for insight. I think I was in line with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13055	Thank you. Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13056	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to ask this opportunity not to ask a question but rather to refer one initiative to you as the chairman, one and the other of this home, or the College of the Parliamentary Assembly in the set, and it concerns the choice of the head of delegation, the permanent delegation of BiH to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. So, I'm starting the initiative to, and I'm asking that the Kolegijum of this House, if it's possible at the first regular session, or the sooner you ask it as a question, because it's no longer a question, it's become a problem that the delegation can't solve in its own context and we've had, on two occasions we've tried it, we tried this morning at 9 o'clock, it didn't work out, and just to say that there's already been some coincidences. In June, at the June session, we were unable to register with committees in the Council of Europe because the delegation had not been established for us and there are certain dilemmas which belong to the constituent people the right to propose to the head of the delegation. I ask you, therefore, to accept this as a serious problem and if possible to be resolved by September 30 when we go to the October session. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13057	And so far, we haven't been able to solve it. We've tried on two occasions, but here's what we'll do to solve everything. So next up is Drago Kalabić. Here you go, drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13058	My parliamentary question was initiated by visiting and calling on a group of citizens to address the problems encountered by the competent institutions, and they provided extensive documentation. It concerns the Sarajevo brewery and what happened during the company's alleged privatisation. As you know, about 850 people worked at the Sarajevo brewery before the war, where about 400 citizens were Serbian nationality. These people had shares in the Sarajevo brewery in the so-called Markovic's privatisation, and they're untraceable. One man allegedly became the majority owner of the brewery, in a way that is not known how it was done and how it came to their shares, although they calculated that under that law someone would have to get to that number of shares at that time socialism should have a salary of 294,444 stamps per month and on all those paid taxes and contributions. In an unknown way, all Srbin were deleted from the list of shareholders and had to give up their rights even though today, the Sarajevo brewery, over 120 years old, was estimated at more than 300 million marks. Therefore, my question is addressed to the competent prosecutors, primarily to the chief state prosecutor Mr. Jurčević: - Is it also how the investigation was conducted, allegedly, and how it was completed in connection with these events in the Sarajevo brewery and was a special investigation into complaints, lawsuits and requests of these citizens who were left without their shares legally acquired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13059	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13060	Mr. Chairman, with great respect for this high house, it may be unserious to announce Mr. Lajčak's presence for each session, so that these Council of Ministers sit here. Because there are no other options. The first question is: - Who am I going to ask now, no matter what our professional services pass it on to certain institutions? But here is today no counselor, except for one assistant, not 16 deputy ministers, not anyone! So it would be good, it is unserious, it is impossible, but what is the way they attend when it is common practice in all parliaments in the world. The question of MPs here has turned into one exomoniade, and here I will repeat again and again, aware that I will never get answers and support what Mr Bećirović has suggested and, when we do this code of conduct of MPs and obligations, that it is mandatory for the code to stand when someone from the executive authorities whom this parliament has committed not to respond - to be fined. So he'll be here before we do. Because there's no other way. And when it comes to something passing which is the interest of the Council of Ministers, then they appear here as a field trip, determine the destination, because it's good and come here. What am I gonna set up? Who? I'm asking this second row, four chairs, no one's here. This third, five chairs, no one's here. What do I do now? But here, at the 2nd session of Parliament, I asked the question that all state institutions deliver to me the national structure of employees in those bodies. So, at the 2nd session, and today it's 14. I got the truth, only from the Foreign Ministry that I'm partially satisfied with, but, and the way it is, it's great! So I ask the same question: - When will all these institutions respond to the national structure of employees? The second question I announced yesterday, and I will always announce: - What about all the privileges of the Council of Ministers, from secretaries, assistants, advisors and all others who are unjustly using all the privileges? To provide me with information about their fleet, drivers, etc., use of mobile phones, organisation of various commissions, spending of taxpayers' money, how it suits them, and all that the Council of Ministers is unfairly using and underestimating this high home. And the last question: - How do you bring them into this home? Is it really possible that they underestimate us so much, are they playing us? And what finally, the hatch: How will we affect any reform, or what Mr. Bećirović is looking for for this canton of his? Of course, I'd be looking for the whole east side, too. But who do you ask when they're gone? Please try to find an opportunity from the Presidency and I conclude with the question: - What are they doing today if we have a monthly session and can't attend? Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13061	I thank the honourable MP. This is a college, not a presidency. On the other hand, we expect these questions to be delivered in writing to a specific address so that they can be answered. The next question was answered by Mr Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13062	Would you sooner, Mr. Bahtić? Here, Mr. Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13063	I'm glad I can make a deal. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13064	I have one parliamentary initiative and a few questions. I'll start with this initiative first. The proposal for the text of the Initiative reads: - Expressing the need to build trust among the Bosnian Herzegovina peoples and restore common life, the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly adopts an initiative tasked by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to bring appropriate measures and moves to enable the stadium under the White Cove to benefit both Veleg and Football Club Zrinjski in co-operation with the competent authorities of the city of Mostar. Explanation of the Initiative: In BiH, it is necessary to start the process of restoring multiethnic life and analysing the consequences caused by war and war destruction. One of the symbols of BiH is the town of Mostar, especially known for the Old Bridge and the football club Velez, which the Mostarac of miles have also called Born during the war and one and the other valuables of Mostar were destroyed. The old bridge was restored, but the football club Velez, and after 12 years of the end of the war, failed to return to his stadium on the White Hill. Unfortunately, it is the only football club in BiH that has not returned to its stadium after the war. Therefore, the return of Velez to the stadium under the White Hill would mark not only the sports victory of all the citizens of Mostar and friends of Mostar from BiH and the world but also the symbolic return of tolerance and understanding to this part of our country. I remind you that the football club Velez is one of the BiH sports symbols that has been next to football giants for almost four decades. Since 1952 he has been a member of the First Federal League, three times a vice-sampion of former SFRY, twice won the Yugoslav Cup of Marshall Tito. The finalist of this most massive contest was four times. srednjoevropski European finalist and Balkan Cup winner Velez also played four times in the UEF Cup and in '74. In '75. He was also a... finalist. During the 95 years of existence and work of the Velez Football Club, some of the most famous footballers from these areas, from all the peoples living in BiH, also performed for this club. Among them are Duško Bajević, Semir Tuce, Vahid Halilhodžić, Sergej Barbarez, 18 Meho Kodro, Blaž Slišković, Ivica Barbarić, Hasan Salihamidžić, Franjo Vladić, Kruno Radiljević, Sead Kajtaz etc. Unfortunately, the events of the war have had a profound impact on the activities of the Velez Football Club. Fubellers, like many citizens, found themselves in persecution and refugeeism. The club has lost its entire assets.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13065	Please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13066	From his stadium under the White Hill, he was driven out of his rooms, and a huge number of trophies and documentation was destroyed or disappeared. The city of Mostar has been a mixture of cultures, peoples, religions and civilizations for centuries. That is why he was just one of the most famous cities in the former Yugoslavia. He was living proof that different nations could live next to each other in peace and tolerance, creating a unique bridge mentality. However, in the last 15 years, Mostar has survived the most tragic and painful period in its long history. That is why the highest legislative authority in BiH, by accepting this initiative, would send a positive message towards restoring those features that were adorned both by Mostar and BiH during the pre-war period. And let me just finish one more sentence. If in the same stadium, it works, in Milan one can play Inter and Milan, why couldn't Velek and Zrinjski play in Mostar under the White Hill? And I have three specific and very clear questions. One is according to the BiH presidency, and two are according to the foreign minister. The question for the BiH Presidency is: - What will you do specifically about the unconstitutional activities of the Government of RS that establish its own network of paradigms and logistics organisations in the US and Europe? Two questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs: 1. In which countries and in which cities have been established by the RS, the Paradiplomatic Representations and Logistic Organisations, and 2. As foreign minister, what have you specifically done in the BiH Council of Ministers regarding the unconstitutional activities of the RS government that violates BiH's sovereignty and opens up diplomatic representations, although foreign policy is in the exclusive jurisdiction of the BiH state? Thank you. And in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13067	Azra Hadžiahmetović. Of course, the Initiative is going into procedure. Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13068	So here are the distinguished members of the College, colleagues and colleagues, for members of the Expanded College just one reminder. At the last session of the Expansive College, we discussed two 19 initiatives, agreed to launch initiatives through the usual procedure during the session, which the College will take further steps. And here, let me start the initiative on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' Club: - to put the debate on the topic: State and direction of the development of the BiH agriculture sector at the latest, and no later than a month. Namely, the Council of Ministers should coordinate BiH's competent institutions in order to prepare materials that would serve as a basis for discussion and that would point to open issues and problems for the agriculture sector. This includes information relating to the issue of institutional arrangements, legislation, responsibilities, the financial framework and re-percussion of reforms on the way to the EU to the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13069	Bahtić. We've already started it in the College and we'll spend it. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13070	Thank you. It's for the C.I.P.S. The next session of Parliament I will ask the same question of Jovicic for all the institutions, the national composition. So, for the CIPS, under: (a) What is the national composition of the CIPS employees? b) As the CIPS of its assets worked to expand the space for the production of license plates in the Center for... in Banja Luka, the space where the ID cards, driving licenses and passports are printed, without its owner, nor is any state property, a state institution, but pays a monthly rent of about 22 thousand KM. These works increased the rents square and created the obligation to increase the cost of paying the rent. So investment in someone else's private facility! ( c) Who has worked on databases, since when and what is the national structure? d) Who runs vital projects and commissions in the CIPS, name and last name, such as motor vehicle registration projects, procurement commissions, etc.? (e) Does the CIPS have any control over issued ID cards and driver's licenses regarding the legality of the issue? There are indications that certain identity cards have been issued without birth certificates. f) Is the list of scissors being performed, as well as the cancellation of ID cards and driver’s licenses? When was the list done? Who does that list and write-off? g) Since 2002, how has the CIPS equipment from SIMENS been purchased, how have the digital cameras used to paint at CIPS sites been paid about 6.5 thousand KM, and the actual market was 2.5 thousand KM; the laptop, the computer, the same at 6.5, and its value was 3.5 as other equipment at enormously high prices? h) On what basis is the level of compensation, payment of daily notes and engagement in the work of various committees determined by the contract of work in the CIPS? As hired persons under the contract: VSS has a compensation of 500 KM, and the second face of the ESS has a fee of 1,200 KM! You can check all that out. How can one person be 20 persons hired under an act contract and receive fees for daily fees and commission work, and the other cannot? Are there employees of the CIPS who receive salaries, i.e. compensation, who work in private companies, and up to... The CIPs never come? Why are SIPA's employees hired to keep books in the CIPS and to terminate contracts from the Ministry of Civil Affairs? And the second question, for the Council of Ministers: - Why has the Council of Ministers not reached a decision on the regulation, the implementing act of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Police Act? It has been 15 months without the BiH Council of Ministers having adopted an implementing act. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Police Act, where Article 176 adds a position (4) which reads: - The equipment that is put into free circulation, which is intended to carry out production activities in the free zone, is exempt from paying import duties. The law was published in "The Official Messenger", issue 51 of 10.7.2006, and entered into force in 18.7.2006. Since the implementation of this law is in the process, customs duties are not possible without a decision on the procedure for granting exemption from the payment of the import duty, which is adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Management Board for indirect taxation. We've been disabled to submit customs... for the customs of goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13071	Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13072	I refer to the College's initiative, since last night at the 13th session we adopted the CEFTA 2006 Agreement, and we have not provided tools for its consistent application, which will lead to a deterioration of the situation in agriculture, which the Association of Farmers has been telling us through the protest for more than 800 days. Given that the chairman of the Council of Ministers has on several occasions been glued to eggs by farmers, I have information that it might welcome us when we arrive at the meetings, and therefore I ask that we be provided with wardrobes and showers in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly so that they can attend meetings of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13073	Are you serious? It's a Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13074	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will read two questions, and two questions, which I was prepared for last session, will be delivered in writing. The first parliamentary question... I am asking the Minister of Health and Social Security at the Council of Ministers of BiH, says: - Why has it not come into force and when will the bilateral Health and Social Security Agreement be translated between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovenia signed in March of this year and which BiH has properly ratified? 21 To ask this question, I am offered daily questions from citizens to whom I, as an MP, cannot give measurement information. For the great relevance of this issue, I considered it necessary to answer today, but here, as there is no one to answer, I therefore propose that the Council of Ministers and Resort Ministers give the answer to this question through the media and, of course, to me in writing. The second issue is the BiH Central Bank Governor and Finance Minister at the BiH Council. - What are BiH foreign reserves with the last updated date? Where are they deposited and under what financial conditions? To ask this question, I was initiated with recent information that BiH's foreign reserves exceeded 6 billion KM and that the Central Bank's revenues are estimated at more than 120 million KM in 2007. Given that the monetary model Currensy Board is used in BiH, in which the domestic currency is tied to another stable currency, in our case the euro, and that according to that rule, so-called. The anchored money cannot be used to credit the state and domestic commercial banks, does this mean that we keep 6 billion KM in euro in some European and world banks at 1% to 2% interest and we get that same money in terms of loans at two or three times the interest rates? And this third, one question I'll just read for his actuality. The issue of BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Nikola Špirić: - What is he intending to do with his responsibility for better protection of material goods and people in BiH against fires? I don't think I need to explain the details here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13075	Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13076	Mr. Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will ask the question: - Why has the parliamentary procedure not been sent to ratify the agreement between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH that adopted the presidency? And I will remind you only of the agreement we had in principle when we ratified the BiH Agreement with the Vatican and the Catholic Church. That's one thing. And I would only add this question to Mr Bećirović, as he calls for multiethnicity. He told us a lot about Mostar. I'm just suggesting we see what's up with aneks vi about 22 Mostar, so we'll make some club or athletic, if we can't, and we'll play a little in Mostar.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13077	Well, ask, Mr. Erić, that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13078	So here's the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13079	Yes, when it comes to the first question, we can give you an answer. Unfortunately, we have not yet received this agreement with the Orthodox Church. As soon as he gets to the Secretariat, we'll put him on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13080	The question is, when are we gonna get it, so please get...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13081	As soon as we get it, we put it on the agenda. Nanić Husein.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13082	I thank you, Chairman. I want to ask two questions today. One of the questions is the question of the ministries, at the address of two ministries -- the Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the BiH Council. Given that I have received the answer and thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers for the rapid response: that the resolution ministries are in charge of drawing up draft law on diaspora. I'm asking the question of the resolution ministries, the two that I mentioned: - Is there a draft draft of the diaspora bill in progress and when can we expect it in the parliamentary procedure? The next question I want to ask the Minister of Communications and Transport at the Council of Ministers of BiH. Since BiH's admission to the UN received international codes for various areas such as telephony 387 code, the internet BiH, and the T9 code used by aviation, fixed and mobile radio stations, all repeaters and radiomitters, it is known that the requirement to change that code is required by two radiomatic associations, and that the request was rejected four years ago by the International Union for Telecommunications in Geneva as unwarranted. According to the information published on the Union's website, the current current current current minister has submitted a request for a code change, and therefore I am asking the following questions to the Ministry: - Why is the change in our country's code being requested? What are these reasons, when the same code has been used in the last 15 years and for many there was no need to ask for a code change at all? 23 Next: - Has the Ministry made an assessment of the costs that will take place following that request by implementing this request? And the third question: - Is the procedure required to refer the application to the rules which are precise for the procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13083	Thank you, Mr. Nanić. Sefer Halilović. And, uh, we have Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Yeah, what's been missed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13084	Mr. Chairman, at the last session, I asked the ministers a question and finally the Director of the Direct Taxation Directorate; I only got an answer from him. I am not satisfied with the answers to the questions I asked 22.8 from the director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, because my question was about the false display of the origins of goods from Turkey, and not the customs value, VAT, debt and the like, which Čaušević placed an accent in his reply. I asked him about the pears, he answered me how many apples he had! Therefore, I ask again to be answered: - Why so far have customs duties not been charged in the amount of around 5 million KM at the request of today's head of Customs, this facility in Sarajevo... since 18.11.2005, and why has the procedure for the collection of customs duties not been tried at the request to carry out the EURO 1 injury, which proves the origin of goods from 29.11.2005 and 1.1.11.2006, even though the 10-month deadline for the Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Turkey and BiH expires? There's an explanation for the evidence that this is all like this. And on the other hand, this response by Mr. Čaušević to a hundred pages where he completely turns in the wrong direction and does not answer the questions asked. The second question, also to Mr Čaušević: - How could it happen and how do you explain that the company "Omerta", that the company "D.o.o. Sarajevo," that is, its owner, Pržuljanin Samir, was convicted of the customs fraud and was given a two-and-a-half-year prison measure at that time, please pay attention only to customs evasion of 60,000 and 523 KM, two-and-a-half years in prison, and this 5 million to none, and none of the customs workers in the Customs Office in Sarajevo was responsible and nothing could have happened without... participation, because this crime was discovered by the SIPA Agency, and the criminal application was initiated by the prosecutor. And the question for the director of the SIPA, along with this documentation, with these questions that I will deliver to him, which I am delivering to him, is asking him to answer me: 24 - What is he going to do and what is he doing when it comes to sanctioning the obvious crime that is taking place in front of our eyes at the Department of Direct Taxation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13085	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. And we still have Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. And this is how we conclude this hour of parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13086	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More like a dilemma, not a question. In fact, counterpart Zorić asked a parliamentary question concerning the draft agenda point I had for today's session. The college decided, given that it was short time to prepare, that the issue would be found at the next session as a part of the agenda. Namely, my colleague Azra confused me by saying that this initiative should be adopted here. As far as I understand it, we adopted it at the Expansive College,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13087	The initiative goes into procedure of course and
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13088	There's no need today to adopt that one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13089	We were ready for one and the other. And to that variant of yesterday, but here, if you consider it necessary, please make it public.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13090	Well, I just wanted to check it out... to be completely, so clearly it's going to be at the next session. And secondly, one remark. Mr Erić asked no question to the Parliamentary Assembly, or to you, because we know that it came to you that it would be in parliamentary procedure, but in the Presidency, which is why it was not delivered to the parliamentary procedure when it adopted it. So, the question addressed to Mr. Erić's presidency, not to... the services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13091	Thank you very much. Here, this is how we conclude point one. We're going to point two, so 25 Ad. 2. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on agriculture, nutrition and rural development (the law in first reading) You've received a match report. You saw that we reached agreement on this bill in the first reading. According to the Rules of Procedure, we are obliged to hold a re-election in the first reading. Let me remind you: this law is on the list of those 27 to be implemented before the report, etc. You know what document I'm talking about. Here, don't blame me for what I thought was necessary to remind you. So, basically, we should approach the vote now, unless someone has a special request to say something. No, of course not. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! We're voting on a proposal for a law on agriculture in first reading. We have the consent of the College. Well, don't be mad. Maybe it's up to you. Don't be mad. Stand by. Vote now! Here, you can still vote. It's not okay again. A little green. 15 "for", three "against", nine "abstained", has no entity majority. I thought we did, and here we go again, and we'll get back together again. Let's move on. Well, there's no need for someone not to vote or if his voice were registered differently, then no one would express dissatisfaction with the results. Well, I'm unhappy with the result but I can't change the score. Any objections to the vote? We're done. Unfortunately, re-enactment. Let's go to point 3. Ad. 3. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other products of grapes and wine (the law in first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13094	Well, I thank you. So, you gave me your word during the vote, I mean, that's why.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13095	Well, here you go, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13096	Look, I've been reading this Rules of Procedure again, and let's have a little bit here as people to discuss the situation. When you fail to reach agreement, so you have not reached agreement, that is what we do now, so apply the Rules of Procedure. And we vote the way we vote now. So that there is a general majority and there is no more than two-thirds against the entity, we say that the law has been passed. You agreed and we voted the same and the law was not passed. So I think, where is the logic? I don't see logic here. Let's do something, people.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13097	I can't see either, or that's what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13098	But, Mr. Chairman, I apologize, but it's a letter, it's so-called. the literal interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure require a language, logical, grammatical, telelogical, whatever interpretation you want. Here, somebody tell me here. By logical interpretation, is it normal when we don't have the consent of three leading people, who had the right to pass the law before, that you have agreed to the previous Rules of Procedure, we would just be informed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13099	Unfortunately, we changed the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13100	Well, we did. Be careful, Mr. Belkić, Chairman, I apologize, but I ask you: therefore, we do not have your consent and we have this result and we say the passed law. We have your consent and the same result and we say no law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13101	...people change their minds, they vote differently. The answer is very simple.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13102	Look, let's see what we do. You know, I mean this is,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13103	Please, people vote differently, and okay. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13104	This is underestimating to me. Look, I mean, I can't just take this, this logic can't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13105	Excuse me, I beg you, for my position, for what it's about. This is all okay. What you said - logic and illogical and so forth. But the bottom line is the next one. After the alignment, you agree that we need to come back, again, to the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13107	There, is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13108	Yeah, it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13109	Eh, at this home we don't have the votes necessary for this law. It's not the other way around, either positive or negative. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13110	Look, when you get back to the House, you're in what's-his-name. The second round of voting after the alignment. Be careful, then, you're not in the first round again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13111	It's the same result, Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13112	Wait, it's not the same. Read the Rules of Procedure, interpret it. You're in the second round of voting. And in the second round of voting, if you have a general majority, it's enough that you don't have more than two-thirds against entities and that's considered, otherwise this is, this is absurd what we have right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13113	People don't want the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13114	What? 28
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13115	People don't want the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13116	Well, that's another thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13117	That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13118	Well, wait, no, that's another thing now. Look, I'm not going to interpret whether anyone or not, everyone has the right to press the button the way they want. Look, I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13119	What do you suggest, Mr. Džaferović?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13120	I suggest you do it like this, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13121	To declare that the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13122	No, no, so you can't do it. I know you can't do it and I can't suggest it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13123	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13124	I suggest you three as people who interpret this Rules of Procedure, given that this is what I'm talking about right now, if you think that's logical, let's see what we're going to do. If we have to change the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13125	You should.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13126	In which part shall we change the Rules of Procedure, so that we may do so, that we may no longer pretend: behold, now it is turned out, do not agree on anything. For the law and for this home, it's better if you don't agree at all, right? 29
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13127	We're a reflection of this home, nothing else. You know that well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13128	Look out, you're not a reflection. You know why you're not a reflection? I'm sorry, we're having a dialogue. Look, you're not a reflection, because if you were a reflection of this house, then this house would follow you. It's obvious you didn't. You there arrange one, this home here, not complete but part of home, votes the opposite. So that's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13129	I say we don't violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13130	It's me, sorry again, you didn't turn off my microphone. I suggest we take a little break, five minutes. We don't have to go anywhere. Call Mr. Lozančić, sit down and make a deal. And after that, give consent, don't give consent, just make it logical. Will it pass, won't it pass, I don't know, but make it logical. Give an interpretation that makes sense to the Rules of Procedure. This isn't going easy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13131	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Živković, wait a minute, please. I'm running this session. Please, please, there is neither Novakovć nor you Kalabić, nor you Džaferović. The measure has crossed. Please, please, Mr. Novaković, let me finish. It's a matter of running my own, of having my own session. Help me, brother. We created this Rules of Procedure the way we created it. I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Džaferović, that it would be great if we could get the job done by agreeing, that it would never come back. However, we changed the Rules of Procedure. We also have a secretary who, along with us, helps us interpret this Rules of Procedure. You've already opened this question on two or three occasions. Every time we get along, we don't get along, we come back here for a check. And I'm convinced we're doing business. Who thinks we're not working, I'm asking for a procedure to be opened, that in one way, a procedure can be determined by who here is possibly cheating or who is in error and that we clear it up. I'm ready to resign immediately the same second on this House's work, in this college, because I can't work like this. I would have been the happiest if we had passed these two laws. De facto, we can neither get less than 10 "against", nor can we get five "for" because simply, a number of MPs are not ready at this time to pass the law. And I can't fix it with the Rules of Procedure. That's what this is about. Please continue. I ask you to refrain, all of you who have answered, from continuing our work. 30...... Please, please, it's my fault I let you. Please, we're going back to work. Let's go to point 4. Ad. 4. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the request of MEP Ekrem Ajanović to consider the proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity under a reduced procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure We don't have the consent. So we don't have consent for the second time. Here, for the second time we come back here and now we have to vote, so we have to vote. We're going to the second round of voting. The request will be adopted, so Mr Ajanović's request will be adopted unless two-thirds of any entity "against". There. Please prepare, no matter what vote you all vote, but it is decisive how "against" it is. Do we have two-thirds of the entity "against". Hold on, hold on. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Please vote no matter how you vote. What is now – 16 “for, ” 11 “against, ”
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13133	11 "against" – no request has passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13134	The request didn't go through, the regular procedure, and we ended this item on the agenda, unfortunately. Let's go to point 5. Ad. 5. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the Conclusions Proposal for a discussion Information on the implementation of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly on the Map of Ways of the citizens of BiH from Guantanamo, 7.3.2007, and MPs: (a) Zlatko Lagumdžija, (b) Azra Hadžiahmetović, (c) Remzija Kadrić, (d) Slavko Jovičić i e) Bakir IzetbegoviIzetbegović In the first part of the 13th session of the proposed conclusions of those Members, they did not receive an entity majority, so the College agreed. You saw from the report that there was no agreement on any conclusion. I hope you have the content of the conclusions in the report and I ask 31 of you to now approach the vote in the second round, from conclusion to conclusion. The conclusions were once again adopted if they do not have "against" two-thirds of any entity. So, the proposal for a conclusion, everyone votes, the proposal for a conclusion by Zlatko Lagumdžija: - The Council of Ministers has failed to fulfil obligations under the conclusion of the House of Representatives since 15.3.2007. It is up to the Council of Ministers to analyse the conclusion and act on the proposal of the Council of Ministers at the European Court of Human Rights, which will be notified by the first meeting. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 18 votes "yes", 11 "against", no entity majority. He doesn't have an entity majority, so the conclusion didn't go through, he fell. We are going to propose the conclusion of Parliament's Azra Hadžiahmetović: - The Council of Ministers undertakes to provide Parliament with information on the conclusions of the House of Representatives since 15.3.2007 concerning the implementation of the Roadmap for the return of so-called Algerian groups from Guantanamo. Please prepare to vote. It's the same thing. Vote now! 17 "for", 11 "against", three "abstained", without the entity's majority -- and this conclusion has not passed. We are going to Remzija Kadrić's proposal for a conclusion: - The Council of Ministers undertakes to provide full information on the so-called Algerian groups, from the day of their illegal arrest to today. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", 11 "against", two "abstained", without an entity majority. I find that the proposal for the conclusion of Remzija Kadrić has fallen, or has not passed. We are going to propose the conclusion of Bakir Izetbegović: - The House of Representatives supports the proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers for Human Rights at the European Court of Human Rights of Act No. A5407 of 17.7, which was proposed to the Council of Ministers three conclusions on the status and map of the return of citizens and former residents of BiH from Gvantanamo prison. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 32 14 votes "yes", eight "against", eight "abstained", without an entity majority. I also find that Bakir Izetbegović's proposal for a conclusion has not passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13136	Something's not regular.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13137	Excuse me, excuse me. Wait a minute, wait a minute. We have 14 votes "yes", eight "against", eight "abstained". Nine of the Federation
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13138	No, no, don't look at these "against"; something isn't, it's not a good vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13139	Wait a minute, wait a minute. So 14 votes “for, ” eight“ against, ” eight “abstained. ” The Federation of nine votes "yes", without the vote "against", eight votes "abstained". [[Common discussion]] Here, I say it's gone. Yes, it did. However, I already have a comment on the result of the vote. I have Mr. Raguž's remarks. I have Mr. Jovičić's intervention. Mr. Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13141	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13142	We'll do it again. Here you go, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13143	The chairman, obviously it's a mistake. The agenda goes before my proposal, then Mr. Izetbegović. I don't know how you made an inversion, so you put it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13144	I didn't do the inversion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13145	You've got the agenda, look. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13146	I didn't say this was the Jovičić conclusion. I told Bakir Izetbegović. So we knew what we were talking about. We knew what we were doing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13147	I ask you to go in order how you adopted the agenda and not to skip it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13148	Please let me finish. I'm in the voting phase now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13149	It's an intervention that's justified.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13150	Okay. I apologize for hurting you, so lastly, here's the second time we'll fix it, but I'm voting now. I vote now, sir, please, or we vote. Mr. Raguž, you have a request to repeat the vote. Thank you very much. Please prepare for the vote. We vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Bakir Izetbegović, we reiterate the vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Bakir Izetbegović. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Please vote all of you. 15 votes "yes", 13 "against", four "abstained"; 13 votes "for" the Federation, two "against" the Federation; "for" two votes RS, 11 "against". There is no entity majority and this conclusion has not passed. Maybe people thought it was Slavko Jovičić's conclusion. We'll check it out now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13151	So people voted for me because.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13152	Here's a chance to make sure they voted for you. So, the proposal for a conclusion of Slavko Jovičić: - It is asked the Commission to review the citizenship to provide information for the next meeting of the House of Representatives whether it is so-called The Algerian group was subject to a check for BiH citizenship. If so, what has been established? Please prepare for the vote on Slavko Jovičić's Opinion proposal. Vote now! So, the conclusion of Slavko Jovičić. 34 12 “for, ” eight“ against, ” seven“ abstentions. ” The Federation seven votes "yes", three "against". So it doesn't have an entity majority. There are not enough votes "against". So, I agree that we adopted Mr. Slavko Jovičić's proposal for a conclusion. You're right. Please, please. Here you go. Please, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go, Mr. Jašarević. Wait a minute, I'm not hearing from you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13153	Is it necessary for a half-dozen majority of all who vote? So that's my question according to the Rules of Procedure. In addition to two-thirds of the entities that are "against", does the vote need a half-dozen majority of all who vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13154	Attending?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13155	Those who are present, who vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13156	Yes, those present who vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13157	By not being in that majority
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13158	So please, "for" is 12, eight is "against", seven is "abstained" and enough is enough. No, please, [[Common discussion]] Well, why don't you say so? Okay. Please, please technique, see that we have problems with voting, etc., please. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on Mr. Jovičić's conclusion. Vote now! Please vote now and make sure your vote is registered immediately. We'll wait before any comment. I'm not gonna say a word, check it out. Don't say anything about it, isn't it? Let me see if people accept the vote first. Is it okay? With a vote? Is there anyone to question? Thank you. 11 votes "for", 13 "against", three "abstained" etc., so on. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13160	Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13161	Here you go, Mr. Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13162	I'd like to read this article on the 80th floor (4).
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13163	The secretary will read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13164	Here, have the secretary read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13165	Here you go, secretary, read the 80. (4). Well, read it. Here we are on key things.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13166	Article 80. Rules of Procedure (4), right? - If the College fails to reach agreement or if it achieves a consensus on a new solution that was not the subject of the House vote – so we are only dealing with this first issue, no agreement has been reached -...the decision is taken by most of the total number of MPs present and voting, provided that the votes against the two-thirds or more MPs elected by each entity. I mean,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13167	Well, he didn't come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13168	Well he didn't pass, he just didn't get the total majority. He has now received 11 votes "for". Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13169	Allow me, allow me, please, help me. So this conclusion didn't go through. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Commission report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija to discuss Security Information in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2006 36 ...and this conclusion has been agreed in the College. No consent has been reached. We're going to vote again in the second round. So who tells you I won't read? So it's the conclusions: 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers to make full information within 60 days on the state and criminal offences in the area of intoxicating drugs with an action plan to combat organised crime and its consequences. 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to make full information within 60 days on economic and organised crime with an analysis of the work of certain institutions through data on how many investigative authorities have made the application, how many prosecutions have prosecuted, how judicially they have completed, along with data on the confiscated assets arising from the criminal activities. 3. It is up to the Council of Ministers to carry out an appropriate analysis and, in co-operation with the BiH Presidency, to present to Parliament an institutional way of organising and functioning of the National Security Council or an adequate appropriate body. So we have not reached agreement on Mr Lagumdžija's proposal for these conclusions. Now we're voting again in the second round: that all the conclusions at once, that's how we agreed, that's what I suggest.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13171	One conclusion at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13172	Just say as you wish, Mr. Križanović, Mr. Lagumdžija. So here's one at a time. Go ahead. Should we read the conclusions one more time, perhaps? Please prepare to vote. Vote on the conclusion of MP Lagumdžija. 26 votes "yes", eight "against", one "abstained" – passed; 20 Federations, six RS. We're going to conclusion two. Please prepare, please prepare for the vote. Vote now! Mr. Lagumdžija, vote. 22 votes "yes", eight "against", five "abstained"; 19 The Federation, three RS – passed, there are no two-thirds "against". We're going to conclusion three. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this 21 votes "for", 10 "against", four "abstained"; 10 "against" from the RS. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, - The National We're going to point 7. So, the alignments we finally finished. Ad. Seven. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act following an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure We received a proposal for this law on 22 August 2007, and later we received an emergency request under Article 127. The Rules of Procedure and we delivered the materials to you. So, first we decide on an emergency request. So, please, I'm opening a debate. ... Mr. Lagumdžja, are you going anywhere?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13174	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13175	Ah, goodbye, I'll see you. Me, me, the important things, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13176	Mr. Belkić, I've just received information that the Electoral Commission... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13177	So let us know, okay. I hope not. So, I'm opening a debate on the request of the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure on this bill. Please, who's answering for the word? It's an emergency procedure request debate. Here you go, Mr. Suljkanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13178	At the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, we have concluded that the proposal for an emergency procedure proposed by the Council of Ministers is not supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13179	Is there any further? Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13180	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, we have also analysed this law and this procedure at the Agriculture Group, and we have found that some of the requirements of the 38 Farmers' Association and Association of Transporters have not been incorporated; as an example, a solution to imports of beef heads mentioned several times in this House, where there is now a problem that there are even certain abuses to be done in the past year and half of this one imported nearly 10 million kilos of beef heads into BiH, and that part should be resolved through the customs tariff, so that we do not again. And also, the reduction of customs duties on tractors that are not produced at all in BiH is not foreseen to lift customs duties completely, which were the requirements of the association and we think it should be improved at some commission stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13181	Thank you, Mr. Ivanković. Are there any more reported? If not, please, Mr. Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13182	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I do not think the condition of the Rules of Procedure is met that this law can be discussed under the same procedure, because it is not a law of high urgency, nor a bill that is not so complex that it could be decided in this way and I call on us all to do so in one of the two regular ways, so a shortened or regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13183	It may be an argument for you to have a relationship with this request, and we were obliged to put it on and to determine ourselves here. That's your attitude. And here, I've given you the opportunity to express it in the context of the discussion of the request for procedure. Are there any more reported? Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13184	We have a request from the Council of Ministers for Emergency Procedure that's probably explained something. If we can hear any resolute ministry what's the reason for the urgency that we can define ourselves, because here our commission and subcommittee of committees have a different view.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13185	I, by law, delivered a request from the Council of Ministers, you had the opportunity to see it in an explanation. Well, here I am, we delivered what we got from the Council of Ministers. So it's up to us to define ourselves. So now we decide whether we accept an emergency procedure request or not. If we don't accept an emergency procedure request, then we ask the House if it's ready to go 39 to a shortened procedure. If it's not even shortened, this law will go into regular procedure. Well, then let's take it in a row, so we don't waste any time. Please, I'm talking. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! Eight votes "yes", 18 "against", no majority,... majority. So the emergency procedure request didn't go through. Prepare to vote on the short procedure. Please vote now. We're voting for a shortened procedure that involves a commission phase. Just one moment. Does he have any objections to the vote? Here, Mr. Jašarević and the gentleman have objections to the vote – that they are not registered. Maybe I'm a little fast too. Prepare to vote. Vote now! And I may leave for a short time, and you slowly. You need to be quick. Is it now? With 25 votes "yes", three "against", four "abstained", enough entity majority, I find that... the proposal for a law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act, which will be discussed by the Council of Ministers' proposal under a shortened procedure. We're going to point 8. Ad. 8. The Commission’s request for external trade and customs duties to consider the Proposal for a Law on the application of the Agreement amending and joining the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure So, the same thing with the proposal from the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs being here. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Prepare to vote and vote now. You didn't make it, did you, ademe? What are you gonna do, awkward? 18 votes "yes", nine "against", three "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the Commission's request for foreign trade and customs duties to consider the proposal for a law on the application of the Amending and Accession Agreement to the Central European Free Trade Agreement has been adopted and this law will now be discussed by an urgent procedure, i.e. this House on it, or the House of Representatives on it. Now we have a debate about this law. So, Mr. Kalabić wants a 10 minute break. 40 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13188	Well, it's not a dispute, I'll just take a few sentences. It's just a good thing there's a representative of the ministry, because I'm at least astounded by our inconsistency when it comes to this so-called. Imit laws. We had a long discussion yesterday and a story – yes, the exact law is called whether I was there – we had a debate yesterday about CEFTA where we really had what was possible to exchange a series and all the possible arguments that we could make here and, at the moment that I thought we agreed on the order of events and moves that we should draw and adopted conclusions and what everyone said, here we have today this situation that we did a few hours later quite the opposite. Although we have had warnings and all arguments about what this way of work means and what it means for this country, the fact that today there was a high representative and yet we show that in the case of the immut law, BiH is in 197 place, and everything before that is a hindrance and we show our relationship to both the state and the interest and everything else. We should honestly admit that these opportunities of the administration are good for revealing that complete truth. I therefore ask the representative of the Ministry to explain to us, if this, and I see the intention of adoption, if it is adopted, what does that mean at this time for this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13189	Of course, I'm obliged to remind you, you must have it. We have an earlier opinion of the Council of Ministers on a similar law, on almost the same law. Here you go, Mr. Tink. Of course, we do not deny the possibility of MPs. As you wish, Šefik.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13190	Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations took part in the work of the committee of this House, when it comes to this law. You adopted the CEFTA agreement yesterday, and we have, then, during the work of this commission, and here we are today, expressing our opinion that has not changed in the meantime. So, if this agreement were to be adopted today, this law would mean a direct violation of the Free Trade Agreement, the CEFTA Agreement. What, in what sense does he mean a direct violation of that agreement? This law, Article 5, determines customs duties of 40% of MFN customs duties on goods of customs tariff 0204, 1601, 1602 originating in Croatia and Serbia. The CEFTA Agreement is an agreement 41 where we have transposed the current Treaty on Free Trade, the annexes of those Treaties into this Agreement. That's not where customs are scheduled. The agreement therefore provides for safeguards to which the Council of Ministers has the right. And even two and a half years ago, the Council of Ministers introduced 40% of customs duties on these products 02, 4 and 16 and thus protected as much as it could at that time to protect domestic production and exclusively these goods. So, if you would now vote this law, but of course, the difference between the law and these measures is that CEFTA provides for measures, CEFTA predicts, and our legislation is also a procedure for introducing these measures, that is, the procedure that must go through the Council of Ministers and we have shown that we are therefore ready to adopt such safeguards. If the law is passed, then it changes what we have agreed with Serbia and Croatia specifically in this case, because it is only required for Serbia and Croatia. So, this agreement is being changed unilaterally, and, moreover, it will certainly have consequences later on... regarding our membership in CEFTA. It's a non-serious approach to us. In this way, the state shows that what the deal is not ready to comply with, and there are other mechanisms, as the Council of Ministers has proven, 40% of customs are held for two and a half years. So, I think it's... enough to see that... absolutely this law is therefore trying to change the CEFTA Agreement. All other members, Article 1, Article 2 speaks... states these decisions on measures to protect domestic production, domestic production, excessive imports, speaks in a decision on the procedure and method of determining anti-dumping and compensatory duties, says Article 3 of the procedure, and all of this is prescribed by those decisions, except that no one wants to use the procedure. This is the easiest way to do this, and I think the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Trade thinks this is a violation of the CEFTA Agreement, and what consequences per country may have a breach of this agreement, it is now difficult to predict but certainly the countries, countries, have the right to react and to assume that they will react... in a way that they can even introduce countermeasures. It's right now. If you have any other questions, if you want me to explain something,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13191	I don't, we'll see if they have MPs. Thank you. Momčilo Novaković applied for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13192	I would like to remind this house that yesterday at the ratification of the Agreement we adopted certain conclusions. One of the conclusions is the conclusion of the SDA Club, the proposal of the conclusion of the SDA Club that... within 60 days, the Council of Ministers, together with entity governments, propose a programme of one measure, which means before the application of this Agreement, will ensure the conditions that there are no negative effects on agriculture, for domestic production. You see, I view this law, which is here before us, as a law of limited fact. So until this job is over and the Council of Ministers has finished this job, we are holding on to the current situation. So we're not changing anything, but we're trying to do what's bad for our producers anyway, trying to keep it at that level, until the Council of Ministers finishes their work. And I don't see why the Council of Ministers is running away from doing its job? In this way, this is one, a kind of forcing the Council of Ministers, with 42 conclusions adopted yesterday, to finish their work faster than they would have done regularly. Of course, I won't address, comment... discussions about these formulated means reasons for voting or voting, because I could go back then: last year, so... and now I'm criticising this ministry as we did last year, because he was a member of some lobby. Well, I might as well ask, and the member of which lobby is the current ministry or Council of Ministers, etc. Of course, you shouldn't talk like that. I don't think that needs a story. I repeat: as far as I'm concerned, this law is limited to me, with a limited time fact until the conditions are met that there are no negative effects by CEFTA. That's the only way I understand it. The sooner the Council of Ministers finishes its work, the sooner we put that law out of force here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13193	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Is there any further? Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually spoke to the CEFTA two or three times last night that touched directly on this bill. I really have no intention of today, nor have I the strength, nor the will, nor the need to repeat any of it. But I have some moral obligation to respond to the explanation of counterpart Kalabić when he talks about the motives of this bill. I don't know how to translate that immut, but the legislator is the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs of our Parliament, whose member I am. That's why I'm reacting. In short, honestly speaking, it can be said that after the ratification of CEFTA, the question now is how much this is coming... as some kind of drug, but we have always explained this bill that we are also dragging as far as we have extended the ratification of CEFTA. He aimed at coercion, according to counterpart Novaković, according to the Council of Ministers to take some measures, to say that with the CEFTA and this little benefit we have in foreign trade with Serbia and Croatia will disappear and that in the meantime, some measures will be prepared to depreciate it. And I totally agree here, if we respect this conclusion that we made yesterday, in 60 days, let's say, here's the value of this law, but let's, let's really understand once that we don't have the right, we don't have the responsibility to accept an international agreement for BiH that continues to make our agriculture worse, and we don't have any plans or measures to amortise it or to mitigate it -- I'm simply not going to accept it. And that's why I'm here for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13195	Mr. Živković. Is it a replica? It's registered, Mr. Dokić. Kalabić: replica. So Živković, then Dokić. It's now reported. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13196	I also said a lot in the debate last time about this law, and I absolutely do not dispute people's rights to fight for a certain kind of interest that is legitimate and not controversial. But I don't want it to cloud one situation that we have to take care of. If we agreed, and they will always have, here I am now speaking, personal support in the criticism of the Council of Ministers and what we have given them to do and they have to do it, even though we agreed that they should do it. I totally agree, I'll never give up here, because I think that's where it's supposed to be done. I couldn't agree more. And I'm saying this isn't the way, no matter what legitimate right it is and people trying to protect themselves in this way. But we're forgetting one fact that we can see who's at risk, if we're talking about these insolent ones. And what about other categories that don't even have a chance to go before this parliament, to come out and protect us too! Who are we protecting and who aren't we talking about? I am against this approach and against this way. It is a place for the Council of Ministers, for this ministry, and should come up with that proposal of extensive measures we've been talking about here for the past three months, but I'm against it being solved in this way, not to mention even more vulnerable categories, areas, branches of production that have not been spoken of. And completely, I do not dispute the right of one, although it is a small group, to fight, even in this way for my own interest. And it's not about that, it's about the way we handle it, that we have a situation that as many of our parliamentary committees do not propose and have no draft law; from this commission we have two, three or five draft laws. And they're not working on each other's commissions, they're working on this. I mean, it's too transparent to be realistic and to bring all the citizens of this country into equality in front of this Parliament and all their interests. That's what I'm talking about. I do not enter into the motives and needs of these people seeking protection – it is absolutely not controversial. But at this point, if this is the way to solve it, then we need to say what about other categories, manufacturers, branches of production. By midnight, we could list everyone who knows about their problems, but they can't get to Doboj, not Mostar, not Trebinj, because they don't probably have because they expect the state to solve them, completely rightly, that their problems, and here for some categories, we're going to make certain shortcuts. I ask you, do we have that right and where does it lead?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13197	Replica, is it a replica, Mr. Križanović? Replica: Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13198	Well, you see, I think it would be very correct and fair when we say something that we're referring to the problem we're talking about. Why did our commission propose such a law? Because it is an attempt to maintain the existing state of relations in the foreign trade between Croatia and BiH. Well, of course we should, where we're lucky to have an even better arrangement than we have right now. That's why, so nothing touches, nothing is asked anymore. I wish we had other tariff numbers, except for the ones that are listed here. 44 And allow one more thing. It's the Commission's fault for proposing the law. She also proposed a law on tariffs and excise duties and foreign trade policy. And why is that? Because the ministry doesn't work, it doesn't work for the Council of Ministers. That's what we can talk about. You'll still need this commission... to apologize here for proposing the law. Why can't a commission when every MP can do it. Let's get serious and, when we talk, let's talk it over.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13199	Replica: Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13200	First of all, Mr. Križanović, I don't know how you think we have the agreement that the current situation is good and that we were in agreement absolutely? How did it come to be that way? You're on the basis that we're all in agreement with that condition, to keep it. Well, that's not true, we don't agree. I'm not in agreement with the current situation and I'm not in agreement with the current situation. And we can open a story about how we got to that state, if you will. There is here from the previous call of Parliament, so let's get into this situation. That's one. So the current situation is bad, catastrophic, and I don't want to think about keeping it at any moment. If we're in a situation where by ratifying CEFTA, we're dealing with this thing systematically, then it's a new story. If we're not, then we continue this: how whoever solves the existing state for themselves, then we can go on like that. It's one thing to be properly understood. When I said about what this committee did, I'm not slow, but it is a little illogical, let's say, the Commission didn't have fun with the question of what was going on with the money. With the money collected? To deal with what we've been doing this year, let's say. She had a right to deal with it. How we took the money from the collected customs, taxes, excises, and I don't know, so let's see where those transfers ended, where that money was collected in that way. Where did he end up? Is it finished with the primary agricultural producers or not? About that! Well, look, you were right, I didn't say it was jurisdiction. You're not required to propose the law, so you're on board. If you want to be principled, solve things in principle, then you must, too, fully agree, go with legal projects bravely, but at the same time monitor their implementation, away from Sarajevo, beyond Sarajevo. And in this situation, it's not our jurisdiction, and that's how 99% of people do, so at the beginning of the discussion, and I said, when we realize something that we're interested in, it's still not our jurisdiction, and it's none of our business anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13201	Thank you. We're going back to the logs. It's a replica, isn't it? Sokolović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13202	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, as a member of the Commission in this capacity, I am giving a replica. So, for many months, the Commission has led correspondence with the Council of Ministers for the visas of this issue. I would just like to say, on 12 June, that we are in the conclusion that we have forwarded to the Council of Ministers at point 2 - the Commission is proposing to the Council of Ministers that 45 consider the possibility of making decisions from other areas that it finds necessary. Everything about this CEFTA agreement and that's where we invited them to form a committee together, to work on solving this problem. However, they did not take us seriously. They were stalling, they were looking for, here, this very moment to bring us up against the wall. We, I think, were fair to them in this part and wanted to cooperate with them. They didn't want to. Normally, we do not have a agriculture ministry that in one better and more appropriate way would solve these problems or the economy ministry and other entities that relate to this CEFTA problem that could give more quality and better suggestions. So we haven't ignored the work of the Council of Ministers or this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13203	Thank you, sir. Replic or discussion? If it's a discussion, now it's Mr. Živković's turn, so Dokić, then Mr. Ahmetović. I think we respect the little Rules of Procedure. kalabić, come in. If it's a replica, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13204	Replica. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we adopted CEFTA unanimously yesterday. So, let's not argue about whether or not to adopt it. But I have a feeling that we're going to argue about who's going to take measures that will, in a certain way, keep at least the current situation, when it comes to the consequences of CEFTA. We have this correspondence with the Council of Ministers that I have the impression that they're giving up, let's say, that people can't accept the fact yet, or that they're unseriously presenting the situation, and that they're going to do some things at this time according to these conclusions that we had here yesterday. So that's the situation among producers, and I have an impression among most of the MPs here. Yesterday we heard a disturbing thesis of Mr. Špirić here! I'm not for... reason not to replicate the chairman, who said the following-- we have to wait for the quantification of the consequences of CEFTA. It's a dangerous thesis. How many people will have consequences for waiting for this quantification, how many consequences will be for BiH, and only then to take measures. These are things that... cannot be accepted by this Parliament. And I understand this story that Parliament wants this law to warn what will arise as a consequence. So that's how I understand this story. So, it can't be chaired, the president of a government of a state is waiting for a quantification that will have catastrophic, but it won't have catastrophic; it must have a vision, it must have, it must know what it is, now what that quantification is to make measures tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13205	Thank you, Mr Ahmetović. Mr. Živković. We have Mr. Dokić on report. Are there any more interested? 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13206	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there were any against CEFTA yesterday, and I think a few of the MPs were restrained, so it wasn't unanimous, but that's not what I wanted to say here. In fact, I don't really understand about tariffs and customs, and I believe that this commission has gone deeper into the problem of what is being said here today, and maybe it's also one of the illogicalities of the Rules of Procedure that the Commission is proposing laws. Since every MP has the right to propose a law, then all it takes is for that MP to count all others who are in favour of this legislative topic. And the question is, can we just pass this law and maybe it's a mistake that I haven't discussed when we discussed whether, according to the 127th point of the Rules of Procedure, we're going to consider... a legal project for the simple reason that we have to be aware that after the debate, we're going to vote on a law that we can't change practically and we can't influence the amendment phase on it. I ask if this legal project is ideal enough so that we can practically adopt it in this form that is now in front of MPs? On the other hand, I wonder if we can at least derogate the international agreements we adopted yesterday, or ratified, by law. They have not yet completed ratification in the House of Peoples, therefore they are not strong, but so far the practice in this home has not been so. It is a matter of legal nature and perhaps the lawyers would have to say here whether in BiH this way we can limit the contracts we have ratified by law. Finally, whether we should pass the law and how the partners who ratified CEFTA will consider BiH as a state that already has attributes imperfect or problematic in due course. The damage this law will do, in the very image of BiH, I think it is greater than the benefits it could possibly receive, especially to mention, when we consider only about 1% of what CEFTA means. With this law, we are jeopardising the image and foreign policy of BiH, and we are talking about 1% of the CEFTA we ratified yesterday. For this reason and the reasons that the Ministry of Foreign Trade... and the economic relations in its opinion on this law have brought here, which is for me advocacy regarding this law, we from the SNSD will not be able to vote for such a law and in the way that it has come into this parliamentary procedure. I hope that the people who vote for this law will be able to explain to all of us afterwards the damage that BiH will suffer after that adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13207	Sir, it's a replica, isn't it? Bešlagić: replica; and here is Jukić for discussion. I'd beg if there were any more people? 47
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13208	Very short. I just have to say some illogical things. Look, yesterday we had an interpretation that we couldn't pass the law until we verified and ratified CEFTA. Yes, that's right. And here, after these explanations, after Mr Špirić's accession, after the minister's accession, we ratified the contract with CEFTA yesterday. And I thought it was over. The Commission has the right to submit a law. There was a vote here today, and this emergency procedure is under discussion. And now you're reassuranceing us of the adverse consequences, and here we are, all the time talking, watching out, this isn't the first law to apply or not to apply. How many laws have we passed, how many of these laws have not been applied and no one suffers any consequences or consequences. Therefore, I stand behind the position of this commission, which has said that this is, in fact, just a law that should retain the level that we have today until the Council of Ministers adopts after a conclusion adopted yesterday, with which CEFTA was adopted yesterday. And what are we talking about now? Today we had a chance to prove ourselves that for European integration in this second place where we had this debate on the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture,... so you did not bring it, even though they agreed in this ministry. It spoils the image; no, CEFTA's adopted, we're more about CEFTA, I don't want to discuss it. She's adopted, she's confirmed herself, and we're finishing that part of the deal. You're saying we don't have the right to propose laws. It's been suggested, adopted, that we go through an emergency procedure, so please let us keep this abreast. We have nothing to discuss. Since it was adopted by emergency procedure, there are no amendments. We can express our satisfaction, our dissatisfaction, our vote, let it fail. I don't mind, but finally let's start working on that rules of procedure sometime. Don't keep using us now, going back to how we're against CEFTA. She was adopted yesterday, verified. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13209	Wait a minute. Here's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13210	I don't want to get into a kind of replica, I just want to explain my views that may not have been clear enough. I want to ask this parliament if this would be the first time and precedent if after the ratification of the contract in BiH a law on how to implement a ratified contract was passed. Would that be the first time? Another thing, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13211	There's always a first time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13212	There's always the first time, of course. So we need to make a precedent on this. On the other hand, when I was talking about BiH's image, I was talking about -- yesterday we did a good thing for ratifying CEFTA, and all the MPs were for, except for a few who were restrained. I shouldn't have to spoil that good thing by way of Article 127. The Rules of Procedure are passed by a law here that has no right to make amendments to.. And thirdly, I think it is best that those who have practically trusted this Council of Ministers have confidence in the Council of Ministers' decisions when they give their opinion on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13213	Is it also the wrong quote? Be precise: which quote are you correcting?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13214	The chairman, a replica, blames MEP Bešlagić for saying yesterday in the debate that we cannot pass a law on the application of the amending and accession agreement to Central European... until we ratify this agreement. It is not true, none of the speakers from the Council of Ministers said so or the representatives of the international community yesterday. We cannot pass a law that regulates certain relations to a ratified international agreement. The Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers may adopt measures, but pass a law – that is absolutely impossible, which would regulate how to implement a ratified international agreement. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13215	Replica: Kalabić. A little patience, please. Pick up your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13216	I think that this understanding of this agreement was more likely to vote against yesterday, if he understood it this way, like a white sheet of paper and there someone was writing to themselves what they wanted, and we're going to do it our way again. I guess it's also clear to everyone that we don't deceive the public that it's a very complicated and important international contract that has its own rules. And what counterpart Ahmetović was saying earlier, there is a procedure there. I don't like much either. But there are procedures, if we're going to honor the contract, we need to respect the procedure. But we say we'll bring the contract, and we won't honor what it says. And we're like CEFTA. We didn't. CEFTA is responsible, I believe, and we have shown responsibility to it because we have debated it for a long time and shown how important it is and how important it is, if we want to respect it, but this interpretation: let the CEFTAs on the table, but we are going to pass the law today, here it is no longer controversial, I think it's funny. And there it clearly writes according to that contract how we should and how we should apply ourselves. If we behave differently, then it was correct to vote against yesterday. It's a much fairer and more correct relationship.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13217	Dokić: discussion. We're done with the replicas and the wrong allegations. Dokić: discussion. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13218	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, right at the very beginning to make it clear that I am for protective measures, too, in this case, our agricultural producers, but I want to warn this Parliament of two things. First, on our responsibility to international agreements and contracts, to our responsibility to the international community that is more present in BiH than in one country, perhaps in the world, but in Europe for sure. We have heard today from here the first man of the international community here clear messages on BiH's relationship to what is called the EU accession process. Last night, we bring, here we adopt an agreement, and already today, it hasn't even been 24 hours, we, if we adopt this law, we derrogate it and send it a very, very negative picture of our environment and Europe as we refer to such agreements. I can understand here the opposition that is using every opportunity to reach out to the voters and the voters, and quite certainly it was in this whole process and the failure to adopt the CEFTA, that they are taking advantage of the opportunity to get their hands on voters and voters, but I warn those who make up the assembly majority here to have a commitment to international agreements, on the one hand, but also to have an obligation to the members of the Council of Ministers that we have chosen. We heard last night, we heard today, what the Council of Ministers' position on this matter is. So, the Ministry's representative explicitly said that by passing this law we are already in violation of the agreement we adopted last night. So it's my suggestion that we don't really accept this law. I do not want to enter into the justification of its adoption, but if we need to shorten this time, which, I hear – last night I was not at that part of the session – the SDA suggested that protection measures be taken within a maximum of 60 days. My suggestion is to cut that deadline and really protect the domestic producers, but in the way this agreement predicted, not to derogate the agreement that we adopted last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13219	Let me register you, Selime. Wait, just take it easy. So we have one replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13220	It's a replica, yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13221	Wait a minute. Križanović: replica; curved quote: Bešlagić; Sadik Ahmatović: replica. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13222	I give up. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13223	Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13224	You see, I'd like to remind you that CEFTA was signed on behalf of BiH nine months ago, the CEFTA Treaty.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13225	Who's the replica, me? Mr. Dokić, I see you're watching.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13226	So, nine months ago, a contract was signed to join the CEFTA. We have known for nine years that we have a poor agricultural position and we know what awaits us after CEFTA's approach to this angle of observation when it comes to BiH's relations with Serbia and Croatia. We have openly told the Council of Ministers, in front of this commission: this bill is an instrument, in a way, rudely speaking, forcing the Council of Ministers to come out with some programme of measures and protection, i.e. fostering domestic production in total and wider.... agriculture etc. And he's gone, he's gone today. I said yesterday: three-and-a-half months in Parliament here is delaying the signing of the ratification of CEFTA. That's why, give us the people, give us an argument that you have spoken to Serbia and Croatia that this arrangement that we have now will remain. At least in view of these three heads of tariff tags! There isn't. We reached a conclusion yesterday in 60 days to take those measures.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13227	I didn't hear Dokić talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13228	Yeah, I'll tell you why now. My people, let's not speak wrong. Who says no law is passed, various implementing acts implementing certain agreements and international contracts. Don't deceive the people. If we were to call it a law or a decision; if the Council of Ministers had made decisions and said they would implement these measures, this law would be excessive. But I say this is Parliament's instrument to pressure the executive government to do something. And that's how it's supposed to be looked at and there's no harm in the reputation of the country. They're ducks that don't fall anymore. What country's reputation, please? Have we ratified CEFTA? No vote against yesterday was in the entire House, aside from all this climate we're talking about here. This law does not have to come into force, let the Council of Ministers bring something too far in this sense and it will be all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13229	Ahmetović: replica. Who? 51
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13230	Mr. Dokić, an esteemed colleague. We're a little bit, I have a feeling that behind that reputation of the country – it's as if we're passing a nuclear head law so much... get what, not to say about the calf, is it! The reply is therefore to Mr Dokić's statement when he said that we heard the Council of Ministers' position and that we should not pass any law in this regard. The problem is in the position of the Council of Ministers, therefore, i.e. the chairman who again, I repeat, said we should wait for the quantification of the consequences of CEFTA. The state can't wait for that. Therefore, the state must provide for quantification before the consequences of CEFTA occur and take measures to avoid consequences. That's the whole story. So, I haven't heard anyone from the Council of Ministers here yet, therefore, convincingly that this House is presenting that it will be in some future period, but we must draw conclusions and laws, etc. After all, therefore, agricultural policy is not at the level of the state and the Council of Ministers. She's at entity level, and this is how we protect it. This is at the level of both the state and the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13231	We're going back to the registered debaters. Replica! Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13232	I explicitly said that I was for protective measures and even suggested that the deadline you proposed be cut, Mr Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13233	We're going back to the public for discussion. We've got Jukić, we've got Jašarević. And are you? We've got Adem Huskić. Here you go. If anyone else changes their mind, come in!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13234	Here, I've been expecting to hear some clarifications from the promoter all the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13235	A little attention to what a man says.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13236	Namely, what clarifications I didn't hear, and I expected them! This law is very, very specific and very narrow and very precise. But that's the problem. And I ask the promoter: on what criteria have these three tariff numbers chosen? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13237	Please, Mr. Križanović, hold on a second. ... No Niko bothered you. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13238	Here, I apologize, I didn't get it right, I want it to happen again here and I want to hear why just those three numbers? What are these products, what are these goods and why are they? Why not some others? Maybe this is too much. In fact, I believe that we cannot, as Parliament, take responsibility and things to look closely, selectively, not to say by any other criterion, but that one who suggests something first explains the criteria on which he chose these very products, these goods. Perhaps this is really what needs to be further protected? Here, I, before I continue my presentation, ask the Proposer – although in this case the promoter is specific, but of course there is one representative right, so more MPs have the same right to propose – I am not contesting the proposal, but I am asking for an explanation of what these goods are, why are these goods and by what criteria only these goods?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13239	Thank you. Next up for the discussion Mr. Jašarević. Get Huskić ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13240	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I thought yesterday was the hardest day in this House and it can't be worse than yesterday, and today I see it can be much worse.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13241	It's all for people, we'll hold out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13242	And I think it's good to at least make it easier for myself to keep working because I'm caught by some kind of fire, internal temperature. I voted in favour of this urgent law, and I know mathematically, politically and stately that it is not a good solution for BiH and that it was logical to package it in the customs tariff debate, only that it should be packaged with that Council of Ministers proposal and this Commission proposal, that we would at least be consistent in what we promised at the beginning of this term. It was not logical for the Council of Ministers, in addition to the months-long very smart public work of the Commission for Customs, to make it clear that excise duties and customs will change, in order to encourage domestic production, to deliver such an extensive change of customs policy which cannot be seen in an urgent procedure. And that's why I thought that this law proposed by the Council of Ministers wasn't urgent, and it's not easy to make an urgent decision about it. And this law that we are now considering is neither urgent nor simple to make a brief decision about it. And then how did it come to be a brief decision? By having no choice but to vote by heart. We only vote often because there is no concept in our decision which way we should go 53. If he had been in a shortened procedure or in some regular procedure, when we voted for the first time, of course we could have made a much easier decision on him. And now it is a real dilemma whether – however this law goes, nothing will happen, because here there is almost nothing that can happen to us – whether there will be some joint work by the Council of Ministers and parliamentary committees. If we don't resolve it in this House, then there will be worse days than today. Each new session will be a race to make a single line of law, according to the way the individual sees BiH, change the laws here and make the law of the law that will be inconclusive, which will not have an analysis of what their goal is in the short term, let alone in the long term. And that's why it would be good if, I answered this without... with the club consulting, it would be good if there was a break. We need a way out of this. We're just not the ones who are immat, we're not even born to be immat, and today we're in a hell of a name here. We're not the ones who wanted to help each other, not everyone who needed help. But we put ourselves in a position to vote because of the mistrust we have among ourselves, so what turns out to be. And we will vote today, so what turns out is, if you don't come up with one at the College right now – and there is not one here, according to how the engineer reads the Rules of Procedure, is there any procedure to come out of this – to see if we will work together until the next Parliament and then to spread our trust and to get out of the fact that in 30, 60 or 90 days or by the end of this year, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament will propose a package of support for agricultural production that will retain the existing state and state.... If we bring him in, he'll have his consequences. It'll be possible to take him down, of course, but then we do some side things. We need support for agricultural production, where what we're saying and what we're pushing into the law will simply be consistent, and we can't be courting either farmers or anyone else. I'm talking about agricultural production, and, of course, we have the whole production of the subject of observation, and I call on those who have the right to take a break: let's take a break and see if we have a smart way out of this situation because if we don't take a break, it's going to be one symmetry vote, and I have to say, when we vote, we don't vote honestly, but we vote to press what happened here yesterday and what happened here today. And it would be best for us to rest from all of this and continue through three days and on other things, and not just on this complex... complex procedure of applying the Free Trade Treaty, supporting agricultural production and co-operation of the Council of Ministers and Parliament, and there's nothing that opens up in this overvote that doesn't lead to anything. I have to tell you why this happened to us. Because five from the RS is a done deal. Why would anyone care what happens now or won't pass when five is guaranteed? It's just sometimes that there's no "A" there, and then, let me just say, it's almost recklessly entered the emergency procedure, and everybody expected it to be one regular procedure, short-lived, never urgent. Now that we have an ambulance, we don't know how to get out of it. This is the state of our souls. There's no position or opposition here, but there's a man who's worked in the economy his whole life and every measure is good. But we can't forget because of a small measure that only the package puts the people of this country in the same position and that they expect, from us, packages, and not any small shifts for certain lobbies, for individuals and not to mention other interests that can be mentioned there. So, I suggest that those who have the right to take a break - let them take a break, it's a better break, let's take as long as anyone wants, rather than make a windy vote and put ourselves in a one-off situation. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13243	There are many who have the right to take a break, that's no problem, Mr. Jašarević. You have both your club and all the clubs, etc., and how we will try to agree: we are now in a business phase where we are ahead of the decision on the law by emergency procedure, because we voted so. But here, let's get this over with with the people we're reporting who's up for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Huskić. We have Mr. Todorović. Are there any more reported? Of course, Mr. Ivanković, of course not. Mr. Lozančić. Is there anyone else you can do? Here, for now: Todorović, Jerko Ivanković and Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13244	Well, look, I have to say that I'm really in one, I'm talking to myself, personally, in a difficult position because I'm listening and I'm very jealous of these colleagues who have clear positions. As clear as they are, it's a different thing now, but they seem to me like two blocks that have pretty good arguments. I really don't. I'd like to make no mistake. So I'd like to do good for the state, and good for these people, and I don't know how to do that. I don't think that's possible, and I think that's what we all want. I must also say, and I am convinced that I am sharing an opinion with all of us here and that I am happy that yesterday we adopted that agreement and all these discussions – I really don't understand as... pointing against this agreement. But grief is greater. I take these colleagues who support this law, their efforts as a desperate attempt to do something about them, and I take this as a war with the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, here they are, and, in my opinion, it's a shame they're not here. Whatever the result of today's vote, I don't know, really this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13245	Yes, the secretary of the ministry is here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13246	There is no Council of Ministers chairman, there is no Minister of Resort. I think this is a very important thing for them to miss. Here, that's their thing now. So, I want to say this, and that's why I answered. Whatever the result of the vote here today, the Council of Ministers must learn some lessons. I don't think they can behave the way they do, and I'm sure they're not insisting on this law because of what it says, but because they don't trust the Council of Ministers to respect these decisions that we adopted yesterday. And here it is, and it's the greatest sadness. And I'll get it over with.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13247	Ivanković. I'm sorry, Todorović and Ivanković, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Jerko. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13248	Gentlemen, the chairman, gentlemen, with full respect for my fellow agricultural producers, because I belong from birth to this group today, and I stand up for the status of agriculture that has never been solved in any system, and God forbid that we at least start to solve it for these three years. I spoke last time. Yesterday we adopted CEFTA, an international contract. We also had a high representative's warning today. The Commission that proposed this law is also in an extremely difficult position to propose, so I don't think everyone has even verified the proposal. I think that this committee is here and more specifically, and I think it would be good if this Parliament had already approached this ministry or the ministries or that they were approaching us, because this situation is not leading us to anything and it's not good – one in a wedge, the other in a board! Come on, let's come to our senses because we have a series of warnings that point to that story. I would ask for a way out in this whole thing to wait, and the proposal of yesterday's conclusion, that 60 days, so let's see what it's going to be -- positive or negative effects. That it's being analyzed and then that we're looking for solutions if they're like that. I think that here primarily solutions can be and exit can be in customs tariffs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13249	Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13250	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, since there is no chairman of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission today, I am one of the deputies and I will explain a few dilemmas that have been raised as questions. We worked in the Commission on this and in the Agriculture Group for almost three months. So, we had talks with the Ministry, we also invited representatives of the European Commission in BiH and their expert who participated in CEFTA making and participated in the Stability Pact. He made it very clear that according to article 23.bis BiH can take measures it considers necessary. One of the measures is this law, so all the dilemmas about it can be clarified. We are not in breach of the CEFTA Agreement, but by law we are implementing the CEFTA Agreement. There are still members of this committee who have been at this conversation for several hours, and I don't think we should speculate about it at all. Why does it apply to these tariff items? You often use the wrong terms. It is 500 tariff codes covering 21% of total agriculture. It is a request from a farmer who has been reported in front of this Parliamentary Assembly for over 800 days. And it was 800 days, whoever wanted it could have analyzed it, etc. The difference between this law and the previous one is that we asked the Farmers' Association to agree, not to be as full of customs as it was in the past law, but to reduce it to 40%, as is the current situation in the Council of Ministers' decisions. Here, I think this information will be helpful. 56 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13251	Thank you. We do. What? Replica? You need to discuss. Before that, Mr. Lozančić signed up. I'm registering you as a candidate for discussion. You've gained your status.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13252	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I must say that this time I will not discuss a single letter in this law, but at the beginning, I would like to join in full capacity the thoughts of the distinguished representative Jašarević. I think that by the sea of debates that we heard yesterday, today and these months on this subject, let no one else blame me, this was the most honest debate, although it is not quite directly, probably as I will not, talking about the solutions of this law. We have a problem and we're running away from that problem, and we're repeating it both yesterday and today, and all this time we've been discussing this. And the fact that this problem comes out of opposition and it's not a problem, it's his role, it's his job. It has been mentioned countless times today and in the past: we do not believe that the Council of Ministers will carry out our conclusions or worse – we do not believe that the Council of Ministers and the RES will do its job. That's what you've all heard, I hope, as I have here, countless times spoken. And for that reason, and that's the only argument, and if I understand correctly, that the promoters don't get me wrong, and this commission, means the whole part that supports this law, the reason, and today it's heard several times, and it is because we don't believe that the Resort Ministry, that the Council of Ministers will do their job. If we don't believe that the Council of Ministers will do their job, that some minister will not do his job, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers won't do his job, there's only one way in the world to get rid of it, not by proposing some, that you don't get me wrong again, the palitative measures. We had a strong argument yesterday, and before that, the Minister and Chairman of the Council of Ministers and, in my opinion, people were very principled and correct. They were defending something they delivered to this parliament for adoption. Very persistent. Here we heard today from the secretary of the ministry who again, in my opinion, is very professionally defending the position of the resolution ministry. And we -- so I estimate it, one of those who assessed it, and on the basis of that, I gave my vote for the CEFTA Agreement -- believed the argument of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry and adopted the CEFTA Treaty last night to assist the Council of Ministers. But not as a result of mistrust. We also accepted those conclusions to bind them. Here you are, gentlemen, we trusted you. Here, you're okay with the arguments, but we're asking you to propose within 60 days to this same home and these people who rightly seek the protection of their rights, and a lot of them could be more here which rights may be compromised or will be put in an awkward position by applying the CEFTA Treaty. We're looking, and that's what we voted for. But then we say yes, all of us are, we don't trust ourselves either, because we've voted our own conclusions, but today we're already saying, well, there's nothing of them. I'm sorry, let's make a deal so we don't make any more conclusions. If we ourselves do not believe that our conclusions will be implemented or implemented, there is no need to bother. So, really, then I think it's smarter if we just vote 57, not to discuss anything here at all, every single one, based on our consciousness, our conscience, our knowledge, our knowledge, our information at all. We'll probably get into a position Mr. Jašarević spoke of nicely, that I think we did the right thing but we're not sure, we may have done the damage. All the arguments we've heard these months, meaning not only yesterday, about the CEFTA Agreement, for me which I'm not an economic expert is approximately, can be reduced to one thing: this contract is harmful to BiH. And you see, we adopted him almost unanimously yesterday. So we consciously bring harmful contracts to BiH and the citizens of this country. I'm sorry, then what are we talking about here? How we're going to trust tomorrow or how someone else is going to trust us, when we're saying today that we're aware that we're bringing in a harmful contract, but here we bring them in, ratify them. Because we want to prevent damage to BiH by this law. I'm quoting again the argument of a number of debaters. I have to say, I'm not sure. So, today less than yesterday, but I'm not sure this agreement is more harmful than it is for BiH. That he's going to produce and I'm not going to say any harm, but certain problems, here, let me put it that way, exactly. And we recognized it, and that's why we made these conclusions. And I am so that we respect the procedures that exist everywhere in the world. If we don't trust a resorient minister, I suggest we launch an initiative to replace the minister. If we don't trust the chairman of the Council of Ministers again, the procedure, the amendment of the Council of Ministers. I don't want... to be in a dilemma all the time, believe it or not believe the current composition of the Council of Ministers. And now you can imagine those people sitting in the Council of Ministers! They listen to what we're saying here. What are those executive powers, how they can function when they are constantly respected that they are not trusted, that there is no trust in what they would do. Imagine yourself in such a position and try to be creative and try to be expedient. After all, we draw so many conclusions with such deadlines that, if God Bog we are in a position to realize, we would never do so, because we are making conclusions that our ministers, our Council of Ministers with all services, cannot carry out within the deadlines that we give and then we come into a position to keep calling and because they do not arrive to do so. So, I suggest... that what is already mentioned, because really, if there is a plea, I really... want to believe in the good intentions of the promoter to protect the Bosnian-Herzegovian agricultural producers. So I want to believe that. I also want to trust the Council of Ministers that they will do anything to do so without the law being passed. Now I'm in a dilemma: do you support the law or support the Council of Ministers? Most likely, if there's a vote today, I'll be restrained. I don't like to be restrained. I usually like to have a clear attitude about everything. But it means because I don't want to be mistaken and vote under the press of some more severe or less severe rhetoric. So, I think we really need in the concept of this Parliament's work, not only in this law, but this is now a good opportunity – to determine whether we will support the Council of Ministers, whether we will, on the basis of it and ask them for a more responsible approach, or if we will keep them this way in suspense, and expect them to be... who I don't know, the best players. I don't think that's possible at the same time. So here's what I'm proposing. Maybe we should try to find a solution in some apartment, so to speak, I don't have a solution... and really... we can come out of this situation with dignity and principle, without harming BiH or agricultural producers in BiH. Thank you very much. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13253	Replica: Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13254	Dear Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, I just want to clarify the Commission's motives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13255	Who's the replica, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13256	Mr. Lozančić said that because the Commission does not believe the Council of Ministers has proposed this law. Under the Constitution, this Parliamentary Assembly is obliged to ratify agreements and ensure their implementation and monitoring. The CEFTA Agreement was just a sheet of paper that didn't mean anything until nine o'clock last night. It doesn't matter what Adnan Terzić signed it, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers, which was adopted by the Presidency and in our way. It was all irrelevant. Only last night at 9:00, when we said it was an agreement that we accept, it has legal consequences. So, it is the Paralment's obligation to adopt regulations, to monitor their implementation, to take care of agreements and take the measures it considers necessary. We as a commission of this home who has been paid to do this job is mandatory, by the Constitution we have essentially proposed this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13257	Thank you. Here's a replica first. What is it, Bakir, with you? Something! Discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13258	I have to say... that I was either disobeyed or completely misunderstood. I didn't say at all that the parliamentary commission had no right to do that. I even said that I believed she was guided by positive... motives suggested,...so I didn't talk about it at all. And for further information, so this agreement hasn't been ratified yet because it hasn't been ratified by the House of Nations, so... I know that but I'm saying it means because of the general climate and general relations, respecting everyone's right to propose... and, hopefully, always with positive intentions and good solutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13259	Mr. Dokić: Replic. Who? Well, you could have done it right away. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13260	I'd just like to say, if the CEFTA was paper yesterday, since last night it's not paper at least for this home, although it hasn't been through the whole ratification procedure yet. I also believe that this commission that did this act had the best intentions and we have no doubt about it. But today is already a different situation. And I answered: it's not a replica of my colleague Lozančić, but it's one support. Indeed, we must not perform here from the position and from the context: we do not trust ministers, we do not trust the Council of Ministers. We chose them yesterday. We can call them to account. We reached a conclusion last night. This is an opportunity. Here, from now on, the assembly to follow the conduct of its conclusions. And if the conclusions don't work out, so we're doing the same thing, but we're doing it the prescribed way, the way procedures are supposed to do it in CEFTA. So it's an opportunity if our conclusions from last night -- here I was, not voting, but I support them -- if the Council of Ministers doesn't do that, it's an opportunity to call them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13261	Mr. - Discussion, replica? Selim Bešlagić: replica; and then we have the discussion Jovičić, Genjac, Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13262	You know what the replica is? What we're saying - we trust the Council of Ministers! So far, the Council of Ministers has had to come up with at least ten times with the overall state that it is after VAT and to make proposals for measures to combat, I would say, the bad consequences of VAT. How many times have we committed them? I would ask if we have in the record, I think one five times, because five times or six times we've proposed changes and VAT additions to zero rate, etc. Here, for those reasons, it's not our fault that they're ignoring us. The point is that objectively, coming, Mr. Nikola Špirić when he came for the chairman, I said: thank Bog a man came who insisted that the Council of Ministers sit here when Parliament was in session because he insisted. Here, empty benches, I think you're all, I'm not criticizing it. It seems to be a disease here – as soon as you get into office, you're not in this part. So, this mistrust they've shown so far, this system: we bring them to us, they don't do it, they promise and cheat us, and we just renew the conclusions. The bottom line is we're trying to say this: now you're in charge, here's the law to be at peace until you bring measures. Or be in use until you bring measures. The moment you take measures, if that's 30 days, the law is withdrawn. Is that, is that some kind of evil? To protect something where the malts came to the bottom. So don't, people, I beg you! Let's see, that's where I'd like the most if we could get along. And just one note to Mr. Dokić: there is no opposition here. There are more positions in the Commission than the opposition. The Commission has also proposed this law. So don't talk about the opposition. I'm happy I can protect you, but I'd be incorrect if you really said it would be more damage than good for this part. I don't think there's going to be any damage, and if it's going to be any use, believe me, I don't know, because the Council of Ministers can make a decision that suspends all of this by law. It may not apply the law, as we do not so far. You do 60 analysis of how many laws we've passed here, so you'll see that 90% of the law is not applicable. It's a verse, it's only on the principle of the Dayton Agreement, not in general, but in part.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13263	Thank you. Obviously, we need more respect between the MPs and the Council of Ministers and more of what's called the job we're doing here. You know, they waited until 9:00 yesterday to get their turn. They were present today, looking for the opportunity to turn around, but business and ours and theirs obviously need to have a little more feelings for the job we're doing. I don't want to defend anyone with this. What I'm saying is that they've informed the College and the chairman and resolute minister of their duties. I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Next came Mr. Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13264	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I said as a member of the Agriculture Group and a member of this committee who led me so as not to get the impression wrong, and here I'm going to start opening all the cards on the table. Perhaps it is an unfortunate circumstance to get the impression that the SNSD is against this law because Mr Špirić and Mr Puhalac from the SNSD are either belonging to that option or running it doesn't matter. If they sit in that Council of Ministers and other representatives of parties and peoples who, we heard yesterday, were unique to this, and we heard the gentleman I met the day before yesterday, and I don't know what his name was, nor what nation he belonged to, but here he works in that ministry. So, let's clear up the dilemmas here. I am not divulging the discussion and the results will show how to vote and what to vote on. At least the representatives of the ministry and the members of this committee, my colleagues, are convinced that on every committee I have fed up with God and the people with one single story and I will keep repeating it - that this resolute ministry comes out with that 62-measure proposal they have prepared. And yesterday you heard me say, "Let's two, here, propose measures that will be implemented and let's move on." He's got a stenogram. You heard when I advocated the ratification of CEFTA. But when I talked to the European Commission and the Stability pakt, then I heard that, I repeat, no domestic law can change an international agreement. Measures and agreements are not the same, i.e. the law and measures. Yesterday, we accepted a very correct proposal from Mr Izetbegović on this deadline for them to prepare. So you'll be witnesses, we won't disappear today by passing one law or another. We're going to put pressure on this resolute ministry all the time to take these measures to help the farmers. If you want me to open this too. So is someone crazy from the RS or here, I must say, that it goes against it when agriculture in the RS is more developed than in the Federation. So as we're going to tell people there here we've advocated the demands of the Federation Farmers' Association, and we're not from the RS, and that's where agriculture is more developed. But we simply couldn't break the procedure, I repeat to whom it's not clear, that by domestic law we're changing this agreement. It's true there's a mistrust and you heard about the parliamentary question, in this row bench over there, chair, that's right. But what do we do? Well, you heard the president's statements about a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. Well, she's not possible. Here you saw that we were looking for Mr. Alkalaj's shift, we didn't get support from the Federation. You, when you ask the Federation for someone else's shift, you won't get any support from us. And what's that? 61 Therefore, my people, we must be serious and watch what is the interest of this land. If you think passing any law will benefit farmers, I will vote immediately. But if you think someone will be behind the damage we're going to do to BiH, then don't blame us, don't blame us. Then you will say, if you see how well these Srbin have found a variant -- who they are pushing for BiH, and they would like to stand out immediately. Stop those stories! Who's gonna stand out? Who's talking? We didn't interrupt her. It was a variant, I will repeat exactly President Dodik, he said "There will be a referendum if the RS is threatened." Well, of course it will be.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13265	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13266	Well, there isn't, Bahtić, right. But don't make it all complicated, people, the way we make it harder for ourselves. Here's the farmer, they're here all the time, and I say hello, and there are some. Here's a representative of the Ministry. Believe me, we'll get the cameras all to record what you did for these measures Mr. Bakir Izetbegović who gave you the deadline. We'll take you out here all the time and if you need to go to the defendant's bench, then we'll pass the law without you. This commission to cut your salary in half, so you don't receive if you don't realize these conclusions. Because we don't know what to do with you anymore. He's got you, he's gone. So, please, this isn't personal to your address, but we have mechanisms and protection to carry this all out at the conclusion of Mr. Izetbegović. Come on, please, let's find some solution to get us out of this. Lajcak commended you today, heard two different opinions from the representatives, today we come out with this law, first thing tomorrow, he'll put us in trouble. Well, we sure did. Come on, please, find a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13267	I'd love it if it was up to me. Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13268	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will spare you some great introduction and suggest an immediate conclusion. And the conclusion would be: - The statement of the proposed law shall be postponed for a maximum period of 60 days. Procedural business, I think it's possible. When an emergency procedure is passed, amendments are not possible, but they are not imperatively ordered to declare immediately. So it can be declared. Reasons why? We have adopted the conclusion: that, within 60 days, full measures are being prepared to mitigate the consequences of the application of CEFTA. The procedure includes the customs tariff law and the customs policy of the Commission and the Council of Ministers customs tariff law in the shortened procedure. So it's all happening in these 60 days and I think that, 62
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13269	Mr. Bahtić, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13270	I think that,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13271	Mr. Bahtić, sit down.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13272	I think having all this in mind and having in mind... everything that will happen and what may, perhaps, confirm that there is no reason not to trust the Council of Ministers, or that there is a reason not to believe, or that all these acts will be warned of possible consequences, and there will always be this possibility to pass the law within that time, unless the effects that are necessary are realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13273	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. We still have Mr. Izetbegović reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13274	So agriculture isn't just... an area in the economy. It's a strategic area, and that's why countries invest in agriculture, so they give subsidies, incentives, and that's why they artificially facilitate their economies. They must not be left without agriculture, they must not remain with poor agriculture, they must not remain dependent on other countries' agriculture. Now, CEFTA here, in that area, the worst thing to do is guess where we're weak and where our strategic interest is not to be weak but to strengthen. There are over 800 days where these tents are, is there, and how there is one ignoring relationship between the government and that strategic issue. From that famous answer, the arrogant, our former prime minister, is it -- that people go to catch shovels, that he'll do his job. There you go, all the way from then on to this day. Maybe, I'm saying, it's just that the society out there that's in the barns, maybe it is, right, from some lobby, maybe it's not, but somebody's got to organize them. Who defends the Council of Ministers to systematically deal with it, here's 800 and a few days, so that it detachs that knot, to receive these people, to find these measures, for which we have now given about 60 days. There, it's been 800 days since. I think you can... look for a way out of this situation based on what Mr. Genjac has suggested. So, we've given the Council of Ministers about 60 days to propose this set of measures that would amortise the effects of applying the CEFTA Treaty, and also in those 60 days we can observe what will happen to both agriculture and imports of these goods and whether so,... such a shock will cause as we are afraid. I'm looking for a break... and I suggest that it be a long break during which we can have lunch and only after that we decide what we're going to do. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13275	I thought we had lunch... in that break between, but, here's if, if most people think we should take a break longer, I don't mind. But I'm warning you, I'm going to try to finish the session today. [[Common discussion]] So please. And where are you going, Mr. Križanović? Allow me, then. So, Mr. Izetbegović, did you request a break? Let's see if there's any more discussions on the table first. Is this a sign that we've practically finished the discussion? If so, there are some initiatives and Mr. Jašarević. Here, and you're officially looking for a break. So break 30, 30 minutes break. I'd like to ask the Extended College to sit down. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13278	Thank you. I think it would be my turn to get ahead of the obvious, before voting on this proposal, to get...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13279	Anything you say will be right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13280	I'm one of the members of the Expansive College who disagreed with this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13281	Did I miss telling you who disagreed? The SDS didn't agree either, and Lijanović disagreed. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13282	That's my duty to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13283	It's not SNSD.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13284	Here's the thing. We, as you know, adopted procedure by 127. Rules of Procedure of adoption of this proposal. So, we've come here, we've been in a debate and we've come to a decision-making phase to take or leave, so no amendments to accept or reject this law. Now, you see, we are now offering to postpone the plea of this law to 60 days. Well, the fate of this law would have been resolved before if it were in the regular procedure. And we adopted an emergency 127. I mean... least of all, if this were to be broken by the Rules of Procedure, if it had come to this, it would have been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13285	Here, I'd like to ask you to wait, so if we break it, you say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13286	Well, that wouldn't be the first time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13287	Well, you wouldn't. All right, thanks. So, I have an obligation to make sure the MPs are willing to break or not break the Rules of Procedure. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on the proposal for a conclusion. Vote now! You have the conclusion on your desk. 15 "for", 15 "against", so the House is not prepared to violate the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Križanović, dom didn't break the Rules of Procedure but that you... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, he did, but here, he saved our conscience and woke up. So, please, please prepare for the vote, to prepare for the vote on this law. Vote now! 18 "for", nine "against" – passed. So I find this law has passed. Let's move on. Is it applause, what is it? Let's move on. Point, so we're at point nine. 65 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the protection of integrated car layout plans (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13291	What should I do, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13292	Nothing, discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13293	Discussion. And he meant to accept this law, and no one explained to me what it was about. I've got to go now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13294	May I have your patience, your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13295	So we had this law on the Commission. I defended on the Commission the position and opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is based on Article 2. The Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the ‘Official Messenger’, etc. - yes, because as soon as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is mentioned here, they are not interested in numbers or attitudes – so it gave the opinion that in the preamble to the Bill on the Protection of Plans and the schedule of integrated cars as a constitutional basis for its adoption, Article IV of position 4 under point (a) of the Constitution of BiH, which prescribed the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly for the adoption of the laws necessary for the implementation of the Presidency's decisions or for the exercise of the functions of the Assembly. Under this constitution, however, there is no 66 concrete material basis, or a member of the Constitution under which BiH could have the authority to pass laws in the area in question. The reason for this introduction of the constitutional basis is that there is no constitutional basis for the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Integrated Car Plans, which has specific material in the area of protection of industrial property for the subject. That's when I realized what it was about. Therefore, the provisions of Article III of the Constitution of the Republics are prescribed that the Republics belong to all state functions and competences other than those explicitly transferred to its institutions by the Constitution of BiH. At the same time, in accordance with Article III, point 3(a) of the BiH Constitution, all state functions and powers, which are not explicitly assigned to BiH institutions, are prescribed to belong to entities. In relation to the said Article 54. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is prescribed that all forms of property have equal legal protection in Amendments 32 and then in Articles 60 point 68 b) and 8. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is prescribed that, among other things, it regulates and provides for property and bond relations to protect all forms of property, as well as the legal position of enterprises and other organisations, the basic objectives and directions of economic, scientific and technological development. The interpretation of the proposed law in question states the Law on Foreign Trade Policy of BiH and the Law establishing the Institute of Intellectual Property of BiH as a legal basis for the adoption of this law, which is contrary to both legal theory and practice, since the laws are legal acts with equal legal power, so that one law cannot form the basis for the adoption of another law. The only basis necessary for the adoption of the law is constitutional basis, and in this case, there is no such basis for regulation of matter subject to this law at BiH level. Cases of adoption of some other laws at BiH level, without the existence of a constitutional basis, represent a negative example that undermines BiH's constitutional order and cannot be the reason for its adoption, this law. That is why the SNSD Club will be against the adoption of this law for a simple reason, because the opinion shows that the unconstitutional transfer of competence to BiH level is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13296	It's all right, but this was another reading. We also had the opportunity to act on amendments, etc. But good. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13297	I'd just like to replicate my colleague Slavko Jovičić for a little while to ask him. Is this the parliament of the RS or the parliament of the state of BiH and the one who wrote it to you, you could have read it a little better... That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13298	Replica. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13299	He's right, Mr. Bahtić. I'm a great reader, but you sent this to me by fax, so you can't see the good letters. (LAUGHS) But it doesn't matter, it's important that we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13301	Well, we understand each other, we just came to the stage of another reading, and it's in front of the finale itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13302	...and I said we wouldn't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13303	Of course, of course. Is there any further discussion? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Cheers, good luck! I conclude, so I'm closing the debate. Please prepare for the vote, so we are voting on the proposal for a law on the protection of plans for integrated cars in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Adherence, therefore, to 20 “for, ” seven“ against, ” three“ abstentions. ” This bill is going to be agreed upon. Now or in three days, at will. In three days. So, compliance at the college level. Let's go to point 10. May I have your attention, please? Point 10. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) At the 13th session, we delayed our consideration of the absence of the Secretary-General, as I recall. I would also like to remind you that the Commission's report, the Commission's report, which shows that the proposal for a law has been adopted in the proposed text. In the plenary phase, Drago Kalabić (two amendments) and Momčilo Novaković (14 amendments) submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13305	It says here seven.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13306	Make sure it's 14? 68
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13307	Momčilo Novaković submitted 14, Mr. Kalabić seven.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13308	So, the redecoration was made, and I apologize. So, Mr. Kalabić seven and Mr. Novaković 14. I hope you have the above-mentioned amendments ahead of you. Denis Bećirović. The debate is about amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13309	No, no, we have a general discussion first, then a debate on amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13310	I didn't hear you very well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13311	We have, I said, a general debate first, and a debate on amendments, in accordance with Article 119, if I'm not mistaken. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13312	There you go, there you go, of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13313	Well, thank you. I'm not really gonna subtract...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13314	Even though it's with us...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13315	...sometimes it mixes, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13316	That's right, but it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13317	Okay. I won't be taking up much of my time since I made the SDP Club's views about this law in my first reading. In the event of a case, I wasn't in a position to write amendments, but at least to repeat at least part of the argument why SDP MPs won't accept this law, absolutely...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13318	You don't have to worry, we don't have support anyway. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13319	Well, we don't make our point. It is that even during the first reading – at that time the minister of civil affairs was present, unlike today's second reading – we had the opportunity to present a series of suggestions, ideas, proposals and conclusions to improve this text of the law, however absolutely none of it was accepted. I remind myself that on that occasion, I personally asked the minister whether, when we are making such a law, whether the government at the state level, and also the government in entities, had made, say, a concept of secondary vocational education from which these laws and a series of other measures would later arise. Unfortunately, we don't even have an answer to that question. But here I was trying to check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13320	Denise, I apologize, we have here an assistant minister who deals primarily with education – Mrs. ESMA Hadžagić, I have failed to say, there is Mrs.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13321	Okay, I'm...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13322	And I hope he's listening.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13323	...I mentioned the minister. I don't argue there's anyone else present.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13324	The minister has authorized the assistant to attend.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13325	Yeah. We think, therefore, that we should have a concept that offers basic principles and views for the future organisation and realization of secondary vocational education and we think that there should be a framework for the development strategy for professional education in BiH, as well as to define strategic directions in the development of adult education, as well as a system for monitoring and evaluating the quality of education. And last time, we made an observation about the fact that in this process, it was absolutely necessary to include all those actors in secondary vocational education. When I say that, I mean, first of all, to school, to social partners, parents and economic actors. Their suggestions, their suggestions, their views regarding this law, I believe they would be welcome and helpful. We of the SDP also believe that BiH does not need any framework law on secondary vocational education. BiH needs a law on secondary vocational education, as is the case with all other developed countries, not any fiction and compromises that will not contribute to BiH's development. I must say, even in the objectives set out as the objectives of secondary vocational education, we are not in agreement with the solutions offered in this law. The general objective of secondary vocational education should be to provide opportunities for young people as well as adults to acquire knowledge of 70 and skills, skills, work competences and employment, hence the possibility of further education and learning. However, it is not contained in this law. Medium vocational education and this law were also meant to respond to labour market needs, in several typical ways – by developing standards and programmes that should reflect changes in labour market demand, designing wide profiles of professions and introducing key skills. In particular, we think that inadequately in this law is treated this part that refers to organising adult training. So, very badly asked this Article 21, and this is a very important question. Adult education is a manifestation of lifelong learning and an integral part of the entire education system. The knowledge, skills and abilities of the adult population in all developed countries are the key to the socio-economic transformation, as well as the development of BiH. Also, the lack of this law is also standards for evaluation, as you can see in Article 10 of this Law. I asked the minister, and I really expected this second reading to be made clear, but we still haven't made that clear: in Article 8(2), it is said that it will be applied whenever modular methodology is possible. And during the first reading, I asked the minister, he didn't answer me then, and here I have no explanation until today – what methodology. The law here must not be imprecise. Is it comprehensive that leads to integrated qualifications, is it fragmentary that leads to partial qualifications, to be clear when it comes to this law. The development and content of teaching plans and programmes, so we don't repeat all those remarks from the first reading? We also believe in the SDP that Article 7 of this law should have made it very clear that there should be no discrimination against students over their religious, racial, national, cultural and other specificities, as well as the use of any language of the constituent peoples of BiH. We particularly consider it important that and we think it should have been incorporated into this law – there must be no discrimination between teachers or other employees in the appointment, conditions of employment, progress or when making other decisions regarding that person, because in school it uses one of the languages of the constituent peoples in oral or written expression. And finally, to say that SDP MPs cannot possibly accept a dilemma that is often imposed here in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, and it is about the same - is it better if we do not have any laws or we should still pass any, bad laws, so whatever they are!? I think that, besides that dilemma, besides those two options, there's a third option that's probably the best. And she's that we have laws, that we have good and good laws. Finally, if we do not give further reasons, we have also said this in the first reading – we of the SDP will not support this law, for the reasons we have already stated, but in any case we to this parliamentary majority, and if we wanted to, we cannot bother to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13326	Thank you. So, general discussion. Here you go. There are no reports. Does the ministry have a need to answer these questions? So Assistant Minister ESMA Hadžagić. Here, because we had direct questions, this one didn't get an answer, etc. Please focus on these clarifications and questions. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13327	Directly. So, esteemed chairman, esteemed ladies and gentlemen MPs,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13328	May I have your attention, please? ESMA
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13329	:... as an expert... outside the political... influence I would be willing only to answer a few questions which the SDP gentleman said. And last time and today you warned that we don't have a... development strategy. I ask you to look at the "Official Messenger of BiH" number three backwards, in which the strategy is published on the basis of the decision and adoption of that strategy by the Council of Ministers ___________?(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, it is. Then you talk about the adult education strategy. Please take a look at the Council of Ministers' Work Programme, which announced the adoption of the adult education strategy for December this year. So the material is being prepared. The objection was also made to the alleged non-inclusion of all interested partners in the preparation of the Law on secondary vocational education and other...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13331	May I have your attention, please? ESMA
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13332	:... other important acts that are... related to secondary vocational education. I must tell you that three years ago, at BiH level, a professional advisory body for secondary vocational education was formed, in which members were not only representatives of educational institutions but also representatives of chambers of business, union representatives and all other social partners very important for the future of secondary vocational education in BiH. I don't know if you've been reading the objectives of this law well, but I must warn you of another matter: in 2003, the first state law in the field of education was adopted at the level of the state. This is the Framework Law on basic and secondary education of BiH, in which both pre-school and secondary education are given general principles in terms of which you have spoken – non-discrimination, this and that, and in this law, it is said that, given the specific specificities of secondary vocational education, they will build a special law, develop a special law on secondary vocational education that would actually cover these specific problems related to the implementation of the Copenhagen Declaration and many other European declarations that treat secondary vocational education at the level how this Bologna treats higher education. 72 I don't know what else would be a concrete answer to your questions. I'd be very happy to, say, have the Ministry respond to everything that goes past this parliamentary procedure, to everything you're interested in. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Ah... since 70th, I'm sorry, since 97th in BiH projects are being implemented for reform of secondary vocational education. Since 97, these are the first reform projects to enter this country, of course with the help of international factors they have been related to secondary vocational education, we are currently starting, these projects have been at the state level five-six so far. First they were called PHARE, anyway, to get the name EUWET in the end. So there was one, and he was finished, and the EUWET was two, and then it was over. EUWET 3 has just begun. Within EUWET 1 and EUWET 2 experts from our country, priority ones, have prepared 40% of the total number of curricula and programmes that we have in secondary vocational education, new curricula and programmes called modular curricula and programmes in Europe. If it makes it easier for you, since it would now require a wider elaburation, it is a parallel that, within middle education, children learn from the principle of modules as they learn from the ECTS principle of transferable points, so that within one profession which, for example, is directed to bakery, they can have several modules of another type that will enable them tomorrow in case he, as a baker, is finished tomorrow, and there is no job, or on the labour market, there is no need for them, that additional education, thanks to those modules that he has already acquired in the field of bakery interest, performs a quick transformation, or retraining into another profession, in accordance with the demand on the labour market. So that's the modular one that doesn't differ, which differs radically from what we've been doing in secondary vocational education so far when you actually had one fully-oriented education towards only one narrow specialty towards one narrow profession. The labour market and European integration and Europe's drive to circulate across Evropa no longer allow such a way of education, but actually goes to the wider, wider teaching content, to the wider range of knowledge, achievements and competences that the child needs to achieve so that it can change that interest very quickly tomorrow. This is also the main trend of the Copenhagen Declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13334	Thank you, Assistant Minister. Here I am, of course, of course. You can, and right away, it's not a problem. Here you go. But I'd like to ask you not to leave now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13335	Here, we won't, in one sentence. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13336	I've tried to answer, some give and so. You may not be satisfied, but here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13337	I think the time has come in this country, 12 years from Dejton to today, that experts from various areas, not only in the field of education, begin to propose laws that are laws, or laws that exist in normal countries. Why are these people, citizens of this country, doomed to have the worst laws in all areas? Can anyone tell me if there's any developed countries that are seriously considering this issue?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13338	I thought you knew that, if the citizens didn't know. Why don't we have the best laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13339	Whether or not they knew, but I want to answer this question that it's not exactly like that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13340	Because we make laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13341	... and that I want to say that BiH does not need any framework laws but normal laws as well as in all other countries. And let me finish. If we don't already know, we won't, or I don't know what term to use to pass such laws, so why, at least, when we propose to the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament to pass some law in this country, I suggest we copy in the future, so we deliver it in addition, to see what these laws look like in neighbouring countries, so we can continue in Germany, Austria, and, I don't know neither, in another country, so let's see also on this example when we compromise these laws – how pathetic this is and what is proposed in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13342	Thank you. Momo Novaković. Momo, is it a replica? Slavko: replica; pa Novaković: discussion. Are there any more reported for discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13343	Respecting Mr. Bećirović's indisputableness that he's a smart guy and that he really has constructive proposals, but I can't understand one thing why he's always against framework laws. So you should just...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13344	Because there's no untapped, no uncircumcised. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13345	Yeah, remember to put every law in our frame so we can accept it. Because if you tell the Srbin about integration, integrity, even if it's in our favor, we won't vote. And under the framework law, you can contradict some law that perhaps even against us – we will accept it. What are you against about framework laws?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13346	Slavko, would you explain to me what other laws are like for you when they are not indicative? Is that unframed?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13347	Well, here you have seen this integrated car. As soon as we integrate, we're against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13348	Is that unframed?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13349	We're against it. Don't integrate, as soon as you mention it, we're against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13350	Okay, they're unframed, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13351	Anyway, give the frame and let it go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13352	Okay, here's the frame, we'll frame it. Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13353	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13354	Bećirović: replica. Just a little attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13355	First, I want to tell Mr. Jovičić that he can address some other clubs possibly by term: us Srbin, etc. This club here has both Srbin and Hrvat and Bošnjak and therefore try to take that approach when it comes to bypassing the SDP. That's one. And under two, it should be small and principled. At the last point of the agenda, you tried to say that, is the integral car, as an expert on integral cars, is not in line with the Constitution, is it, the states of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it is with the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is it, when 75, that we are building tomatoes around the world, and we know that this is the exclusive jurisdiction of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I invite you to be a little principled when we talk about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13356	Thank you. Replica, of course. Shouldn't we go too far with the replicas?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13357	Comrade Bećirović, I will no longer replicate. I praised you, that's true, the facts said. An indisputable young, promising politician. Where did I mention the SDP? Where did I mention the national structure? I personally mentioned you and really affirmatively spoke about your views that you advocated, but told you a position that made you unable to pass. You saw it here. You've seen problems with me before: as soon as I read something, and when I speak without reading, it goes without a problem. That's why I'm not reading anyone's texts anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13358	Okay. It's okay, Slavko, it's okay. To allow Mr. Novakovic's discussion. Here you go, Momo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It would be good to discuss amendments in our second reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13360	Well, of course we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13361	Of course, my colleagues won't mind, but this story is a story for first reading and a story for the principles of the law. And if it's not covered by the amendments, then it makes a little sense at this stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13362	But that's what Denis associated it with the amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13363	I haven't heard that anyone against these amendments I've made, so I don't think anyone has pleaded that against these amendments, so I'm already quite...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13364	He's prepared for you to vote for the law! 76
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13365	...optimists that, with the adoption of these amendments, this law will receive support. As you can see, I have proposed some 14 amendments, in accordance with Article 118, which did not receive support in the commission phase. I do not want to burden this home, given that I have given an explanation of each of these amendments, so what I can say is that every law, including this law, must, apart from expert views, and very often I am in a situation to hear about the same things different views of experts, even sometimes the diametric opposite, so I have written these amendments too, i.e. written by experts. In fact, I've been given this by an expert and said here's the expert opinion of me who's worked exclusively for many years through different ministries, through which I don't know what not, I've been doing on this issue. Well, now we're talking, so with different experts, then we get different suggestions, but good. I don't think we'd, no,...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13366	It wouldn't be a bad idea to put it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13367	...it wouldn't be bad for experts to meet sometimes. I don't think we should waste a lot of time on this debate. So, I propose that we declare the amendments individually and afterwards vote on the law. That's the only thing we can do at this stage.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13368	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. The proposal is constructive. Of course, it doesn't take a chance if someone else wants to talk about the amendments, if I don't conclude the debate. So, like I said, we have Mr. Momčilo Novaković's amendments. Mr. Kalabić, Mr. Novaković has filed before, so we'll go first.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13369	My parents worked two experts.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13370	And he's got one. All right, here we go, Mr. Kalabić. I'm just kidding. So, please, let's get ready. We'll go with a statement on Mr. Novaković's amendments. Do you have any amendments ahead of you? I hope you do. Let's get the amendment for the amendment. So we have an amandman to gospodin Novaković's I.A. 77 Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 10 votes "for", 16 "against" etc. I. Momčilo Novaković's amendment was not supported. We're moving on to Amendment II. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 votes "yes", 13 "against". amandman II. He didn't get any support either. We're going to amandman III.. gospodin Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 16 "against" amandman III.. gospodin Novaković has also not received support. We're going to make a statement on amandman iv.e. gospodin Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 16 "against". Likewise, amandman iv.e. gospodin Novaković has not received support. We're going to Mr. Novaković's Amendment V. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 15 "against". Mr. Novaković's amandman was also rejected. Let's go, Amendment VI. Mr. Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 votes "for", 16 "against". amandman vi. He didn't get any support either. We're going to Amendment VII. Mr. Novaković. Please vote now! 11 votes "for", 15 "against", three "abstained". amandman vii.. He also did not receive support, Mr. Novaković's amendment. We're going to Amendment VIII. Mr. Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 16 "against", three "abstained". Amendment VIII Mr. Novaković has not received support. 78 Let's go to Amendment IX. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 13 votes "for", 16 "against", one "abstained". amandman IX.. He didn't get any support either. We're going to Mr. Novaković's Amendment. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on amandman X.. glasati now! 11 votes "for", 16 "against", three "abstained". The amendment X. also did not receive support. We're going to make a statement on amandman XI. Mr. Novaković. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 16 "against", three "abstained". Amendment XI. He didn't get support. We're going to Amendment XII. Mr. Novaković. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 16 "against", three "abstained". Amendment XII. Mr. Novaković has not received support. We're going to Amendment XIII. Please prepare to vote. Vote now, amandman XIII. 11 votes "for", 15 "against", four "abstained". amandman XIII.. He didn't get any support either. And we are left with Amendment XIV. Mr. Novaković. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on amandman XIV.. Vote now! With Mr. Novaković's resignation from the amendment, I agree that six votes are "for", 15 "against", one "abstained". We have Mr. Drago Kalabić's amendments. So it's about seven amendments. Let's get the amendment for the amendment. Please prepare to vote on amandman I.. glasati now! 12 votes "for", 15 "against", three "abstained". Mr. Kalabić's amendment did not receive support. We're going to Amendment II. Please prepare to vote. Vote now on amandman II.. gospodin Kalabić. 12 votes "for", 13 "against", three "abstained". Annex II to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended accordingly, Mr. Kalabić has not received support. We're going to amandman III.. gospodin Kalabić. Prepare to vote! Vote now! We vote on amandman III.. gospodin Kalabić. 10 votes "for", 13 "against", three "abstained". amandman III.. He didn't get any support either. We're going to amandman iv.e. gospodin Kalabić. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 12 votes "for", 14 "against", three "abstained". And amandman iv.e. He didn't get support. We're going to Mr. Kalabić's Amendment V. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! Mr. Kalabić's amendment. 11 votes "for", 14 "against", four "abstained". And amandman v. didn't get any support. We're going to Amendment VI. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Amendment VI. Mr. Kalabić. 11 votes “for, ” 14“ against, ” six“ abstentions. ” Amendment VI. Mr. Kalabić has not received support. So, we're left with amandman vii.. Please prepare to vote on amandman vii.. Vote now! 12 votes "yes", 14 "against". So, amandman vii.. Mr. Kalabić has not received support. Practically, now that we have exhausted the statement of the proposed amendments, we have left a statement of the law. Please prepare for a statement on the framework law proposal on secondary vocational education and training in BiH in the second reading. Vote now! We're voting on this law. 15 votes "for", 12 "against", four "abstained". It's a match. We don't have Nika. He went to OBN. We'll agree in the next three days. We're going to point 11. 80 Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law amending the Administrative Procedure Act We're also here in the second reading. This law was passed, to remind you, in the first reading of the 13th session. The committee in charge adopted the draft law in the proposed text. There were no amendments. We also don't have any amendments here. I am opening a debate before declaring this law in a second reading. Are there any interested in the debate? If there isn't, I'm closing the argument. Please prepare to vote on the draft law amending the Law on the administration of a second reading procedure. Vote now! So, with 28 votes "yes", without the vote "against", three "abstained", enough entity majority – I find that we have adopted amendments and additions to the Law on administrative procedure in the second reading. Let's go to point 12. Ad. 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law in the Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13374	Thank you, Chairman. I won't elaborate much. Here, as you have seen, the proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education has not passed, so we are not defined by that word as indicative for any law that needs to be passed here, but I think the essence is in the honesty and seriousness of the work we are working in. The working version of the law that was agreed was entitled Framework Law on Free Legal Assistance in Civil Affairs and, on the way from where it was agreed to the place where it came into the procedure, the word was omitted. All we ask is that the harmonised text of the law be returned as agreed. For that reason, this amendment is. There was nothing else for me to suggest this, except to agree on what was agreed upon. If we cannot bring between ourselves what has been brought into line from where this was happening to this Parliament in the same version, then we have a big problem in mutual honesty. I think that's the only reason I'm asking this Parliament to support this amendment, which is why we have this law today in the form proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13375	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Are there any applications for an amendment hearing? If it doesn't, then I'll conclude the debate on the amendment and the debate at all. So now we're going to make a statement about Mr. Živković's amendment that you have, I hope, on the tables in front of you. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 15 votes, 13 "against", four "abstained", we do not have an entity from the Federation. We can't get along. We don't have Mr. Lozančić here. So, since we're unable to get the alignment now, we're going to do this at the College, and we're going to stop at this point in the agenda, because we need to get a prior alignment. Let's go to point 14. Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport This is about first reading. The proposer of this law is the Council of Ministers. It's a regular procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional 82-based basis on August 31st. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible. The Commission delivered its opinion on the principles on 4 September. We also got on the benches of corrections of certain technical errors delivered by the Ministry of Communications and Transport and please keep that in mind. So today, we are pleading on this law in the first reading, including these interventions that I've told you here, and this committee will treat it in the procedure. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law on electronic legal and business traffic in first reading. I can't hear anything, Jozo. Turn yourself in and tell me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13377	Can you... give an introductory notice?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13378	Here, I gave in the shortest, when it comes to first reading, what was necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13379	I meant the promoter.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13380	Mr. Dokić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13381	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13382	He can't, Mr. Križanović, give the promoter, because he obviously doesn't have it that when it comes to this law, you get the exact answer. He can't. Here you go, Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13383	Well, I will give myself the right to speak in double capacity, as president of the Commission who supported this law and assessed that there are satisfied principles and that the law can go further into procedure, and I will not speak on behalf of the Minister, but I can tell you that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13384	He's kind of already ours.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13385	... The ministry, this is whose minister I was, has made this law and this new ministry has just changed the title. The previous title was some aspects, etc. They erased, completely justified, some aspects and remained the same title as they remained and hence these technical mistakes. So it wasn't fixed in law, in the text of the law, in some words. Yesterday we noticed on the Commission and suggested that it be done and you got this law. So it really is 83 one law from the set of the Policy Action Plan and the Development Strategy of the Information Society that this Parliament adopted in 2004, so I think it's a framework law that defines the principles in this area, which will be binding on everyone, of course, so I think we can support it to move forward in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13386	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Here, I hope this has been useful, too. I'm just saying, again, we're on first reading. Of course, I do not deny the possibility if there are others interested in discussing this law when it comes to first reading. If not, let me conclude the debate. So please prepare to vote on the bill proposal... on electronic legal and business traffic in the first reading. So, get ready to vote. Vote now! 25 votes "yes", without "against", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that with six "abstained"... we adopted the proposal for a law on electronic legal and business traffic in the first reading. Let's go to point 15. Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration So this bill of law was delivered to us by the Council of Ministers in July of the month. It's a regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission gave a positive opinion, supported the principles of the law. We're in first reading. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please prepare to enter into a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the first reading. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", without votes "against", two "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority, I agree that we have adopted a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Ministrys and other administration bodies in the first reading. Moving to point 16. Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act (first reading), Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs 84
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13389	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, here as a member of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, I would like to draw some ground for this proposed legislative solution. In fact, you are witnessing how many discussions there have been over this point regarding agricultural production, which only treats two of the chapters of the Customs Tariff Act. As you recall, the Commission organised a round table on which it registered all problems from agriculture and businesses, as well as problems recorded in the BiH Chamber of Commerce, which are actually an obstacle to a normal trade system in the region based on bilateral agreements that BiH had with neighbouring countries. And here, yesterday we ratified CEFTA as one comprehensive free trade agreement for countries in the region. In fact, we wanted to make it easier or equal to the conditions of the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy and thus the agriculture which is a burning problem, especially after the ratification of CEFTA and in this proposal, the amendment and addition of the Customs Tariff Act, we have introduced several reliefs for the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy. I received several letters during this long process and procedure. Among others, here I received a letter from Doboj from the PET packaging producer where the Council of Mines predicted that customs duties should be abolished, i.e., to bring the customs rate down to zero for imports of test tubes for the production of these PET packagings. And we have capacities in BiH, here I, by chance, know "Plastika Christmas" from Doboj that have the capacity to produce test tubes. It can settle the whole of BiH's market, which puts our PET packaging producers in an unequal position compared to producers, for example, from neighbouring countries. Therefore, we made sure that the customs rate on zero was reduced to one wide range of products concerning agricultural production, including tractors, chemical fertilisers, etc. Of course, this does not fully address the issue of agricultural production, because in one package we have proposed amendments and additions to customs tariffs, amending and supplementing the excise duty to provide so-called. Blue gasoline for agricultural producers, which are actually organised as agricultural producers: they have the right to return the excise part of the oil tax and oil products used as fuel. 85 Therefore, here is the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs found that these principles are appropriate and that, given that... the proposer of this legal solution expects this home to support these principles and that, in the next amendment phase, this legislative solution may possibly be complemented with perhaps some other solutions which would certainly be a relief bh. the economy. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13390	Thank you. Next came Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13391	I'll do it very briefly. In fact, there is no dilemma that this law, since it is a proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, has a constitutional basis, on the one hand, and this is the first of the conditions that we could ever support it in the first reading, or that we could declare it in a confirmed way. As for the principles on which the law is based, and they are not controversial. However, I am not sure that all the provisions of this law are in the function of protecting domestic production. In fact, it seems to me that certain reductions in customs rates or taking customs rates to zero are not in the function of protecting domestic production and that is why we will certainly act in this amendment phase. But it would be good and I would like to make a proposal, given that today we had a debate on the amendment of the Customs Tariff Act (proposer: Council of Ministers) where we have practically directed, means that a debate is being held in a shortened procedure, that in the competent commission, and the competent commission will be the same for one and the other law, these two laws are being discussed at the same time and tried to find a solution that supports both the Council of Ministers and this Commission. Circumstances about voting on one law and another, it seems to me that they give for the right optimism that it can come to that, because what I saw, though, I have to be honest, I haven't compared all the items, some of them I have, it seems to me that in some items or a significant number of items it is possible. Of course, where it is not possible, it means that whoever, for whom it is not acceptable on that commission, is likely to give a valid explanation, which is why it is not acceptable or why it does not constitute an element of the protection of domestic production. Therefore, my proposal is to the Commission to adopt a conclusion requiring the Commission to discuss both proposals of this law at the same session, with the mandatory presence of the Minister and to try to find a harmonised text of customs tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13392	Thank you. However, obviously that we have in a different procedure two legislative identical projects and it might be good to put this recommendation to the conclusion and give it to us in writing so that Parliament can suggest to the Commission that it works in such a way. Replica is Mr. Mehmedović. Here you go. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13393	The replica refers to Mr. Novaković in the sense that here he is not sure that every reduction in customs rates is in favour of protecting domestic production. Namely, any reduction in customs rates is exclusively for those customs rates, i.e. those products that do not have a domestic producer. So that's what was strictly taken care of, and those who had, we tried to protect them. I hope that these two legislative solutions, what the Council of Ministers has proposed and what the Commission has proposed, will in some way be the link between the Council of Ministers and this Parliament, because the basis, or the skeleton of the law, and this legislative solution of the Commission and the one proposed by the Council of Ministers, is actually the same text, because it has already been agreed on part of the customs tariff, which, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers has inserted some other customs rates, i.e. some items, and on the basis of the request from the round table, has inserted quite another. And I hope that we will have the opportunity precisely to consider both these legislative solutions and any amendments in the amendment phase at a single session of this commission and to find a common solution which will be acceptable, not to say, for both the Council of Ministers and for us, but which will be acceptable certainly for the needs of the economy.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13394	I thank Mr. Mehmedović. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Before I give you my word, just to think a little bit about the fact that in the event that we adopt today this legal proposal from our commission, this law would be practically in the first reading, or it would be possible in the second reading to make an amendment, and the legislative proposal that came from the Council of the Minsitors is practically only in the first phase, in the commission phase would come here in the first reading. So, we have two legislative proposals that are in different stages and it's very difficult together with such – there's a possibility that this law today doesn't get... support so... in that, then, in that form, it's in the Commission together with this law. So we're taking care of it. Here you go, Mr. Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13395	Well, I haven't had time to go through everything, but, by the way, technically, I've compared only two numbers. It is the number of 48 pages of this review given by the Commission and here is 499-500 which means ten times as much material as it is in this section. Since there's an assistant, is that right, the finance minister -- if you got such information -- there's no, and, the secretary of this ministry, I'm interested in whether there's a fact in this material, or I assume that this is all the data in which there's a customs rate of zero, and now it's just being prescribed. And it would be good to have one quantitative comparative analysis of how many common elements that match and how many elements that deviate, possibly in this proposal. I am in favour of respecting the procedure, but I think: since we have found ourselves in the fact that the two same materials with different quantifications, weight, in circulation – to find a solution that would satisfy what the Proposer is now talking about, that is, in front of the Commission for this part, so it seems to me that it could be the bond that would have to come close, let's say, 87 Parliament or this from the Commission with the Council of Ministers. I am convinced that this would give one quality to make this material faster and more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13396	Thank you, Selime. Here, Momo's picking up. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13397	I, look, about the procedure, since Mr. Živković here said it could be controversial, since one law is now in the first reading, and the other was not yet on the Constitutional and Legal Commission to establish constitutional law. Look, it wouldn't be the first time that the committee in charge has asked for an extension from the College, if for legitimate reasons some work can't be done. By proposing this conclusion to the House, I actually wanted the College in some way, meaning that the College was in some way given the task of approving this extension of the deadline, so that both laws could be discussed on the competent commission at the same time. That was the purpose of my conclusion. So a simple extension of the deadline for ending this first law, that is, this law compared to the previous law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13398	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Okay, here's Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13399	If we tried to clarify this situation before we entered the voting procedure, as much as possible, it would have made it more complicated. In case we adopt the law in the first reading, the law then goes after seven days into the commission phase and the commission phase is to accept amendments and submit amendments and comes to the session next time. As far as we know, the 26th Law that came from the Council of Ministers now has yet to go into the commission phase to talk about principles, i.e. the Constitutional Commission, and it comes to us in the first reading in the next assembly. So it comes to us in different readings again. We can't even find that delay in all this. We can postpone the first reading of this law so that the first reading would be both laws in the commission phase. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13400	Thank you. Here,... is there any more of the debates that have been reported? Adem Huskić. Any more interested, please? I'm looking for this for practical reasons. Please, if it's a replica. Mr. Huskić, wait, there's a replica. And if there are any more debaters, please respond. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13401	Here, given that this is a legal solution, it seems to me, at a very high degree of consistency and within the Commission itself, we've really been working for days, while we've achieved this. It's kind of a list of demands from the economy from those people that this concerns. And, I don't think there's any need to postpone, but if necessary, it means in the second phase that the College may be asked for additional time to eventually face both legal solutions at one session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13402	That means we'd wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13403	And the other one. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13404	Okay, thank you. Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13405	I was gonna say next. Today I said about that CEFTA law that there was a war between the Commission, or Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and I think this is the same continuation of the war, because when I got that material, the material of the amendment of the law came first from the Commission. After that, a colleague said, ten times the size of the material. I really understood it as an attempt by the Council of Ministers to minimate and minimise the work of this commission. That's how I understand it and it's a disgrace to the Council of Ministers. And now I'm gonna tell you a joke.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13406	Vic?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13407	When the late actor Vlado Gačina says: whenever my wife and I agree, she decides, whenever we disagree, I decide. Here's what I'm gonna do. Whenever the Council of Ministers and committees agree, I support the Council of Ministers. Whenever they disagree, I will support the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13408	Thank you. Here, if we're done with these jokes, here's the secretary of the ministry. It's very educational. Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Mr. Hamdo Tinjak. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13409	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I think these last discussions are aimed at resolving the possibility, is it, if there is a problem. So good discussions are heading towards finding the best solution. There are therefore two proposals and we are now talking about this Commission proposal. We have made some remarks concerning this law at the Commission's meeting, and they relate to two principles. One of them is the introduction of new customs duties that already do not exist, which is forbidden, that is, not in line with... the obligations we have made for the EU, this time the EU has given us zero customs duties on all goods provided that we do not touch our customs duty, not to raise it. And we have over 50% trade with the EU. And import and export. And there's one solution, so as far as those famous veal heads are concerned or how, the head: that huge imports are and that they are otherwise declared at customs. It's a customs problem. And customs only has to solve and do its job, not introduce customs duties, which is why we are challenging the EU and we can disrupt relations. The second thing is customs quotas and our proposal has and this proposal has customs quotas, but the quota means a restriction. This Commission proposal does not have a limit, meaning unlimited imports, which is not a quota. There is a solution, therefore, and we think that we can find an agreement with the Commission on this. We can find a deal with the Commission regarding... this earlier what it is, raising customs duties. And as for the other elements of this law, we can say that indeed, the Commission has put forth a huge effort to be appreciated. We appreciate it and this proposal includes more products. However, we began to do so two years ago and we passed the Council of Ministers' meeting
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13410	Why didn't you call? They didn't know people.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13411	You know what, the last Council of Ministers meeting was already on the agenda. Eh, then you asked for the consent of an entity that didn't come. Now the consent of the entity has come, we are ready and this is plus to say that the Management Board of indirect taxation has given consent to this proposal: 75 million marks are losing customs... but they have given consent. So, this effort that has been made is really to appreciate and praise and I think that we can wait.... so going past our proposal even more goods are involved...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13412	And millions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13413	Now, several million on which the Management Board might need to give its opinion, but I think we can find a joint proposal with the Commission, and in that direction, maybe we should... 90 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13414	Now let's hear it. Here comes Mr. Šemso. Excuse me, Šemsudin.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13415	I just want to say that, as a commission of 16.5, I'm sorry, 5.6. We got from the Directorate for Direct Taxation Analysis of Financial Effects for this legal solution. And I have it, here, I'm it, there's it, and every member of the Commission has it. We've already got that before. And it's minus 32 million and 556 grand.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13416	Is it both?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13417	No, not what we suggested as a commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13418	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13419	Second thing, I want an explanation. It's true that in one of those customs numbers we asked for an increase in customs duties. And that's for these famous beef heads. I couldn't find anywhere a regulation prohibiting an increase in customs rates. If it's based on an agreement with the European Commission, I'd like to see it. Yeah, I couldn't find an act where it says so. But if someone thinks this is wrong, that this is not in line with international agreements, etc., it can fix the amendment. But believe me, I've been here for the last four or five years. Here, in 2006, 7,780 tonnes of beef heads entered BiH, which is 15,22,000 marks for you. European garbage is imported under the beef heads. I have to take this expression and we, unfortunately, eat it: what through the pate, which through the judges, I don't know, salami etc., let's not, I wanted to be responsible for the citizens and to try and suggest an increase in customs rates, exactly, just that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13420	Who's importing those heads, do you know? Aren't those the ones we protect?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13421	I have the first twelve importers in BiH and not to mention here in this parliament the names of the firm, because it would be a bad propaganda for them, but believe that among the first twelve there are no "Lijanović" companies as it has been imputed several times. And that's why I'm asking you to really have an understanding of this. I had a very heated debate with Mr Lijanović in the first session of the Commission, because he wanted to convince me that our social status in BiH is such that we have to eat this European waste. Well, if we had released the customs of June butts 91 or veal, our population would probably be eating veal, or Juneine! They wouldn't eat this European waste. Under these beef heads, the liver is imported and, I don't know, the heart, etc., everything Evropljanin don't want to eat. And that's why I'm asking you to have an understanding. Whoever thinks it's necessary to fix this, be my guest, let the amendment work. The second thing, the quota proposed by the Commission, indeed, is a single mistake, because it seems that the secretary did not photocopy it properly, so in the version in Serbian and Bosnian, it is not nice and well done, so it is certain that we are on track to be the exact same quota when it comes to this part of the tariff annex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13422	Thank you, Mr. Šemso. We have Mr. Novaković. Šemsudin, we have Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13423	I'd like some information, Mr. Chairman. Namely, Article 101. In its position (6), the Rules of Procedure defined that if we have more proposings, then it calls on the Kolegijum to make efforts within seven days to bring their proposals into line. I wonder if the College means
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13424	Unfortunately, we didn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13425	I would like to say that if this is not used that this is then the opportunity that Mr. Živković was now talking about, which is to give, means that today practically, given that it is not a respected member of the 101st position (6) of this... that today we are not making a decision but that we leave it to the College to practically correct this failure and invite both promoters to agree on their proposal, in order to possibly come up with one proposal. This way, if we do, I'm giving up my conclusion, because this is the way it actually means that this alignment is going to happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13426	Yes, Momo, but if you'll allow me, that provision implies and begins with the assumption that the proposals are in a few days. We had a completely different situation here. We didn't know, and we're already the law one that came earlier in the procedure and he moved us and in the same... things would be like the College as we are today. So, I hope...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13427	I don't blame the College, I'm just trying to... 92
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13428	It's not about guilt.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13429	...to find a solution, not us at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13430	Of course, of course, we'll look for a solution. It's not about guilt. I said directly we're not for the next reason. One proposal had already gone deep into the procedure when the other came. And there was practically nothing we could do except think about it here now and see what Mr. Šemsudin said about what you were saying and Mr. Živković. Of course, the Resort Ministry has shown some willingness to cooperate and come up with a single piece of paper. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. Are there any more debaters? Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13431	Well, you see, I'd like to make a contribution if I can put these proposals in one place. So this is about some vanity after all. We talked an hour ago about the bill that sent the Council of Ministers and asked to be considered by an urgent procedure. So something's urgent. And here, we didn't accept that procedure. Now we're thinking in our first reading, you know, one law and now we say, "Let's go now, let's keep that law waiting until this one goes through some kind of procedure." If we have the good will to get to the law as soon as possible, why can't a normal communication be reached with the Council of Ministers that in the next phase, the commission, when amendments to this law are considered, the active Council of Ministers is involved and to help define one bill. Does it matter now whether it's a bill coming from this commission or from the Council of Ministers? I think that's the way to get there before in the regular procedure to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13432	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Are there any more reported? If there isn't, so... here you go, sir, I'm asking you to tell me, see, and you understand me. I'm going to lock up and try to suggest, then... until the last second, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13433	If this goes the way some people here suggest it goes, then we'll have two laws passed, assuming they both go by in time, I don't know, about 15 days or a month or more. I don't know if we need it, if we can work it out differently. So the content is exactly the same as the solutions, and we have it in one law. And that's why I think the College should take advantage of its right or obligation, it's quite binding, from this Rules of Procedure, and that these two legal 93 proposals are united and agreed on by the procedure, and, of course, to invite the proposings and then to inform them about it, and that they use their powers under the Rules of Procedure and to carry out the procedure further as it goes. How important and important is this? It's just, in fact, there's a little question in our economy that we can consider without imports. Why? Because we are a country that imports a lot of components for production, especially finished products, etc. And how does it work here? Here, today agriculture was a dominant topic and yesterday through CEFTA, etc. A moment ago the gentleman... said only a small example with this kind of, I don't know, the heads of cattle that are in Europe waste and a lot of other things that are imported into us or frozen meat, which is again in Europe in the good part of the waste, so if you buy it, you have a premium, not that you have to pay for it, etc. This turns us into products that we here, without real and good control, all of us, or the vast majority, consume, eat and eat our families and therefore the total population of BiH. And that's why I think it's good that we don't go, here, separately into two legal projects, but to bring it together and then really make the most of the effort to solve this in a real and very good way, in the interest of everyone, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13434	You see, Mr. Jukić, I, as far as I understand from the debate, are all committed to it, and everyone faced that fact, even the Council of Ministers. Our resolution committee is completely open, so in my opinion, we shouldn't stop this process. We should make a statement about this law in the first reading. Recommend the Commission with the College to keep its amendment phase open in some way until we arrive at this proposal in the first reading. It's one variant, and then they'd already meet in another variable, in the second phase. Another variant: to call on the Council of Ministers after the adoption (if the House decides to adopt this) to put some of its own,... its own solutions in the draft of your law, in cooperation with this committee and MPs. So, and that's how the laws... step, so to speak. Here, we have Mr. Mehmedović and Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13435	Here, if you'll allow me to say on behalf of the Commission: to ask you to support this legal solution in your first reading. And as for the second reading, or the amendment phase, here we are going to ask the College to give us as much time as necessary until this Council of Ministers law arrives, meaning at the same level, and we're not really vain. We are prepared to give up this legal solution if we reach a high degree of agreement with the restoring ministry and the Council of Ministers on their legal solution. Because there's probably been some kind of mistake. Here's one of those is the one I was talking about. Really, it wouldn't be right if we didn't do domestic production. There are other anomalies when it comes to importing limes etc. Which would strengthen me, say, some other companies that are outside BiH, which wouldn't strengthen bh. companies, etc. We're really not vain, we're willing to give up this legal solution at the moment when we achieve a very high degree of consent on this. 94
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13436	But let's keep this thing open.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13437	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13438	Thank you, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13439	Here, Mehmedović answered the good part of what I was going to say but you see, human talk, 35 days earlier, he entered Parliament this bill that the Commission had made. And since the committee has passed, not only the ustavnopravni but the competent commission, a proposal from the Council of Ministers appears. So, the thing is, they didn't want to talk, about vanity. Here's counterpart Mehmedović says we'll give up our proposal. What? What's the suggestion? Who's gonna give up the proposal? So we're asking for some extra time to compare whose better bill that is, instead of saying you work together on the law, let's get to the law as soon as possible. I personally cannot accept that attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13440	Mr. Živković: Incorrect quote and replica, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13441	Well, I don't know what it is either. Parliament can decide what this is about. Saying she's vain or not vain, you might be talking another way. The proposal tabled by the Council of Ministers by emergency procedure brought here to Parliament is a proposal that has passed absolutely all the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13442	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13443	He's been through all the procedures.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13444	Getting an opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13445	So, the indirect tax administration gave its opinion. Entities have given their consent. The proposal is what could have been agreed upon, and perhaps it was the reason why we in this House asked the Council of Ministers to come out as soon as possible with a proposal that could have been agreed on. The proposal our commission made – as we heard from the Commission and from the representatives of the Council of Ministers – is a broader proposal. Maybe that part couldn't have been agreed on, 95 maybe the entities didn't give their consent, maybe even the indirect tax administration, except that she figured out how much it would cost, maybe she didn't give her consent. So let's not say it was just vanity. Maybe there are other reasons. So let us sit together to see if we can agree on that one or the other proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13446	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here, this time before Križanović, then Šemsudin. I need to be balanced.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13447	You see, if we accept that all the laws in the field of the customs fiscal sphere will be brought to us by the Directorate for indirect taxation, then we work here for free. That's unacceptable to me. And second, as you have seen, the assessment of the Directorate for indirect taxation of this proposal by the Commission: Budget will be denied, conditionally said, for 32 million. The Council of Ministers' proposal moves towards the conditional damage to the budget to 67 million. So, are these facts?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13448	Yeah, yeah. Mr. Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13449	I just want to correct the incorrect assumption. Namely, this proposal by the Council of Ministers does not have the consent of either the Directorate for indirect taxation or entity. Maybe formalally and doesn't need an entity because it's a customs tariff, but it needs an indirect tax administration. There is a much more complex proposal that was the basis for us to make this proposal. For such a proposal, it has the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation, which may have been a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13450	That's the basis of practicality.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13451	Yes, it is. It was a basis for both us and them to make. They added, among other things, all the paper products. This will destroy the home "Natronka“ Maglaj, for example. They added, I don't know, except refined sugar and means produced sugar. It'll destroy the sugars. Maybe it should have been left at 5%, etc. These are the things we need to talk about. We need to see realistically: for such a thing, they do not have the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation. So I'm asking you to really have an understanding. This was done for several months, on that, and it wasn't just 96 done by the Commission, but it was done by a group of experts to which this is a close matter. And, of course, those to whom this is concerned.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13452	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović. Here, and Mr. Živković, again. We're running a kind of dialogue, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13453	Well, I think it's necessary, that it's a very important question and that we need to clarify things. So when a representative of the Council of Ministers comes out and says he has the entity consent of their proposal, I'd like to be here to know whether it's true or not. On the other hand, I'd like to know if your proposal has the consent of the Directorate for indirect taxation or not? That we also know here whether it's true or not. And then we can make up our minds about each other. So, to be clear, because we here must now plead in our first reading of your proposal. If we do not have the authority's agreement on indirect taxation, we can refer to the way Mr Križanović said we should ignore it, although in the past term we have said a dozen times that this and such law must be amended, which is unacceptable that in this House, legal projects cannot be passed when the Directorate for indirect taxation does not give us consent, but until today we have failed to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13454	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here, is there more? Sir, just a minute. Before Novaković, then Mr. Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13455	About that, when we talk about how low customs revenue is, who pays these customs, if we release the repromaterials? They're being paid by our domestic companies to get materials to produce? Then we can talk about how much the benefits are later on, etc. So, you don't have to look at this unilaterally and just for, I don't know, the effect of that moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13456	The state gets it the other way. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13457	Of course. And one more thing. I don't think we should discredit the Council of Ministers like this. I don't normally defend executive power, but this time I still have to say two sentences in defense of them. They are our Council of Ministers and we cannot ignore their proposals. They were here asking to go for the 127th tariff. That's what it is. So, without anything, it just needs to be accepted or rejected. We said we wouldn't do that, we want a shortened procedure, so with the possibility of an amendment, etc. And the question is that we went according to demands, then today could already have been passed this one, so the Council of Ministers of Law, and this one wouldn't. And now the question is who went before; it did start before this commission, but the Council of Ministers asked for this procedure, which meant the end of today's customs tariff adoption deal. So, I'll repeat my opinion and my request. I believe that the College should take advantage of the obligation and the right to the Rules of Procedure and give mandatory guidance as to what the committee responsible will do, so that these two legislative projects can be united and not two but one to the very end.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13458	Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13459	Now, I've tried with a few suggestions to resolve this issue, and it seems to me that as the debate goes, I'm coming up with some new knowledge. And to learn the views of the indirect tax administration I didn't know about until now. Probably, if there was a further debate to come up with some more information.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13460	Which isn't bad.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13461	It was and I had the will to really support this to honor that first conclusion. Of course, there is another way for this one law to come to another law. And, right now, I'm withdrawing this first draft conclusion that I've made, and we're going to be abstentions on this bill, so we're going to wait for that law's solution, so I guess this committee is going to sit together to agree on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13462	I think then that all the efforts we've made here and we've been trying to put in practice have become... groundless, to say the least, but we simply have an obligation to determine ourselves on this bill. So it's inevitable. Here you go, Mr. Suljkanović. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13463	We, as a commission, have already said on several occasions that we have no objection to the harmonisation of the dynamics of law-making, so we simply do not have two laws in the procedure. Therefore, suggest and we will agree to do this harmonisation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13464	But we must address the previous question: Does Parliament support this law in its first reading? Please, I'm closing the debate. Please prepare for the vote on the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act (first reading). It is proposed by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 votes "yes", six "against", four "abstained", without a sufficient entity majority. He's going for a match. Here, it's slowing down slowly, so this one's gonna catch up. So, let's get to the alignment. Is this child's work, Jozo? Is this child's work? Okay, thank you very much. So, there will be a three-day alignment at the College level and then we will submit, we will report to the College, and in the meantime let the Resort Ministry make communication with this committee. You're not far, I guess, and we can fix some things anyway. This law hasn't failed, he's still alive, so we'll see. Let's go to point 17. Ad. 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act (first reading) – Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs The situation is practically the same. The Commission has supported the principles of this law, etc., so we are in the first reading. However, we do not have a proposal from the Council of Ministers of this nature. First reading. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports? Drago Kalabić, Šemsudin Mehmedović. Are there any more interested? Here you go, Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13466	Mr. Chairman, I've applied for the last item, but you've already concluded the debate, so I'm going to use it, since it's kind of a problem, and I'm going to be very brief because there's actually a problem. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13467	I'm sorry, I didn't get you very well. Did you answer for the last point, and I didn't give you my word?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13468	But it's over. You were, no, no, you were done. I raised my hand, but you're the one who figured it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13469	Oh, I'm sorry. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13470	It's up to me. The explanation and the explanation that it's about vanity, I think it's funny. This isn't about vanity. This is about interests. What vanity! You think someone in the Council of Ministers is sitting, having vanity, or if you want the other way around. Here someone in this, it's about Parliament, and it's about the Council of Ministers, because what someone said earlier, I find out new details and I find out new details here and obviously someone's wearing a cat in a bag and trying to frame it. This is a very serious story and a very serious thing. Here, we don't even have a chairman of the Commission and the Commission here, to be honest and open, it's not all right. And we'll probably open that up. And so it's not just some sort of vanity or something trying to do. This is about very big and serious things and here, if people want to get serious, and they're going to have to track down the previous point, the Council of Ministers and the Commission, it's obvious that there's talk of vanity and I don't know anything. That's not true. And I understand because, let's say, I was startled by what Šemsudin said earlier. If a proposal from the Council of Ministers sits with ministers from several political parties and, the proposal destroys the cardboard factory, as it is called, in Maglai, something is not good. Then something's wrong and to get me over it, if it's like now they're doing something, it's not vanity. That, my Bog, is a very big and serious thing. And responsible people who know who in which way was invited to prepare this to make things serious. It is true that we will ultimately decide on this House. That's right. But they won't get away with it this way, so like a little bit of someone yelling at a kid's game, some little scam, vanity and all. It's just a matter of work. This is a very serious thing for this country, and I think together, here, without prejudge of things, it really is this commission, but the fact that there is definitely something, and it will probably be an obligation for the College to, together with the Council of Ministers, that is, this committee, past this debate at Parliament, before we normalise relations. Our Council of Ministers, our commission and we insist on doing it: one forest, one road. I don't think it's right for our own sake and we're kind of being co-responsible, if we're going to tolerate this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13471	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. 100 Mehmedović Šemsudin.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13472	I really wouldn't say anything about these advances of my predecessor because the Commission was working really very openly, transparently. We organized a round table where there were over 200 participants. It's been working for months. Everyone had access to the Commission's work. Therefore, if there are interests and there are interests, it means interested groups of people, businessmen, farmers, mesanthropists, paper production, etc. which is perfectly logical and justifiable. But I would like to say a few things about this law, which is part of the agenda, which is the proposal for a law on amendments to the Customs Policy Act. This is one in the package of laws, I say in the package, because we have done the proposal for a law amending customs tariffs, a proposal for a law on amendments to the Customs Policy and Amendments and Excise Supplements. I have, however, oral information that the entity prime ministers agreed on this package, which implies a very high degree of compliance. Of course, I don't have anything in writing, and that's why I'm taking it with the reserve. But I hope that their political will will be translated into institutions that are necessary to give their opinion on these three legal solutions. I would only draw attention – this law is simple and short. In fact, someone today seems to have asked me as a representative question, not to adopt sublegal acts and regulations when it comes to the implementation of customs policy, and, in fact, the Commission wanted to make it easier for the businessmen who create a customs obligation to accept their own exchange rate or exchange rate as an adequate asset, i.e. a guarantee of payment of customs debt, which is quite logical and justifiable because the bank guarantees on large amounts are huge, they cost a lot. So I'm asking you to take this as a relief. economics and therefore, the Commission has proposed to amend and supplement this legislative solution only in these three members.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13473	Thank you, Mr. Mehmedović. Are there any more reported? Mr. Slavko Jovičić. Here you go, Slavko.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13474	Dear Chairman, I would not agree that we are not doing very well on this committee, but we agreed at the beginning, and it seems that we have achieved the goal of going with the legal projects not to have made these unfortunate men from the ministry and the government do something. But it looks like they're lucky. I don't mean this ministry, they're really working, but some others are holding us back. Well, just now at that point, happiness, agenda, I didn't want to... come forward, and you know that I first mentioned those beef heads here, so because of those importers I barely saved my head, because it was a terrible pressure, because the media published it when I said it here in Parliament as the biggest sensation. And that was true. 101 And what Mr. Šemso said, these entity premieres, there's nothing in writing, really, maybe it's Šemso somewhere along with a song either, determinedly both prime ministers sing, I heard. Of course, a little weaker than I am, but what I'm going to do is I'm going to help if I have to, so we can get some official paper. And the Commission is really doing good, and no one needs to put pressure on it. Perhaps you of Parliament have made a mistake, I will not say now what the best experts you've chosen in this neighborhood, and at least it puts the greatest pressure on these ministries and the Council of Ministers. And here's the results, is that right, Mr. Secretary, that you're going to do this with us. And if it wasn't for us, you wouldn't, would you, just like so far, eh, determined. So we'll agree with them to achieve and harmonize this and we'll just give the framework law some and he'll pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13475	Let's see what happens. We'll vote now. So if we've exhausted the reports this way, I'll conclude the debate. And I ask you to prepare yourself for a statement on the Amendment Law proposal and amendments to the Customs Policy Act in the first reading. So, get ready to vote. Vote now! We vote in our first reading on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. 19 votes "yes", six "against", three "abstained", we don't have an entity majority. It's not great, but it's fleeting, so we'll get along, see if we can fix it, so this law too. May I have your attention, please? This law is also going to be agreed upon. Moving to point 18. Ad. 18. Report on the implementation of the budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2006 The BiH presidency delivered a report to Parliament on the execution of the Budget on July 18th. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its report on this report on 30 August 2007, so to speak. In the Report, our commission, as you have seen, also suggests a number of conclusions that have become an integral part of the Report. Here comes the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, probably with the intention of providing a few additional information, but please just for a little while. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13477	The Commission has therefore accepted the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2006, with the following conclusions: 102 1. That the budget of the BiH institution for 2007 will be rebalanced as soon as possible in Parliament, which will allocate the accumulated surplus revenue shown in the report on the implementation of the budget for 2006 as well as possible surplus revenues for the first six months of 2007. The Commission proposes that Budžet propose that the surplus funds be set up to build facilities for the needs of BiH institutions with the aim of reducing existing rental costs. We know that in Budget now the costs are about 20 million KM, so this is a legitimate proposal. Then, for the return of refugees and displaced persons and the need to equip and establish modern border crossings, as well as the need to equip the BiH Direct Taxation Authority to fight all types of border crime. 2. The Council of Ministers is asked to draw up a multi-annual capital investment plan as soon as possible in order to make the budget available more efficiently in the coming years... Thank you. [[shuts with paper, no closing word]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13478	In this way we were reminded, so to speak, of the proposal for conclusions that are part of the report. I am therefore opening a debate on the report on the execution of the budget of the BiH institution. Of course, the report of our commission, after which we will enter into a statement on the Report, which is an integral part and these proposed conclusions. Are there any reports? Here you go, Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13479	I know we've been working for two days, someone's working here in Parliament, and maybe we're tired. I just want us all to show a little more patience, because it's very important things that we're going to do next day this same Council of Ministers that's here to burden ourselves with additional obligations. Our commission, in addition to accepting the Budget Implementation Report, which the Bureau did, has suggested a serious conclusion to go to the budget rebalancing. I am asking you here if we are prepared here to, as a Parliament without the Council of Ministers who should tell us: is this possible at this point, is it agreed, is there any tissue to do this, to decide that we are going to do it. So I ask you to bear with us a little more and let us make such important decisions, when we vote on our commission's report, not to make a move and then some of the MPs question what this paraliament has adopted here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13480	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Here you go. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević. 103
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13481	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is understandable that this dilemma presented by Mr. Živković. We had her on the Commission, such a dilemma, knowing that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13482	I hope you have some information, some indicators that say you need to do a rebalancing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13483	No, so we didn't have that in mind, but we thought what was wiser to propose to this home, when it comes to the Commission. Is there a smarter rebalancing that is more difficult to implement but this is a request from the Office for Audit and a request from the public to spend the budget transparently, or to propose to the House that the Council of Ministers simplifys the procedure and, in accordance with the Finance Act, the institutions adopt an additional programme which was not in the original budget and that so part of the funds accumulated and the surplus is spent in the equipment of institutions or any other projects established by the Council of Ministers. So I think it makes sense here if this home decides that instead of a rebalancing that is difficult to reach, it is particularly difficult then, according to the procurement procedure, to spend the funds, that it can be defined as a variant for the Council of Ministers to consider a programme or decide independently how the law allows it and to report this home or offer to the House to establish such a package together and thus resolve the issue of this accumulated surplus. On this occasion, I would like to point out: we do not have a problem with the accumulated surplus this year, how much is the problem of what will happen at the end of this year, because we have inherited practice that we are too ambitiously planning employment in BiH institutions, for a reason and with the desire to strengthen them so that we can do our job. The result of slow reception, often due to limited competences, complex reception procedures, sometimes restrictions on space. This is being resolved much slower, so we're unreally planning these needs, and all the funds that stay on gross payments, then they become excess by one year, which is accumulated year after year. It's on one side. And on the other hand, he won't let us plan a better capital building together. So we block all the money, block all the money into gross payments and other fees, and then we never have enough funds for capital building. I would, on this occasion, have the obligation to say, given the visit of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, on the highlighted several proposals that have come to the Ministry of Treasury and Finance that equipment people with equipment and software support would be helped by the Directorate for indirect taxation to fight more easily, more successfully, more professionally with illegal trade and all those accidents that follow the work of our border service and customs. So there are a lot of projects that could be implemented by the end of the year and can be one commitment to go with one program instead of budget rebalancing. It could help that what we haven't been able to plan at the beginning of the year, because of a rather ignorant planning, here's how we fix it this year, and then in the following year we create a presumption of capital building. Thank you very much. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13484	Thank you very much, Mr. Jašarević. It's true... I apologize for saying a few sentences that we're not in a position to plan, so to speak, make the right projection. However, there is a possibility, as far as I know, in the Budget Act, etc. that up to a certain level, a certain percentage, is being moved from the item to... by a certain procedure, I don't know whether the Council used it or not. But here, so now we have the next situation. We have a report from our commission. First, shall I ask if there are any further debaters? If not, then we have a report from our commission and we have one, in my opinion, real warning from Mr. Živković, when it comes to rebalancing. These are procedures indeed... quite long and Mr. Jašarević added another exact thing, as well as after the rebalancing of Budžet and at the same time already coincided with the beginning of the preparations. I believe that the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance has launched procedures for preparing the 2008 budget, as well as to implement spending eventually when it comes to the Law on Public Procurement, Employment Procedures, etc. So, we are now in a dilemma whether to adopt this report with a conclusion that implies a rebalancing obligation or, of course, with the consent of the members of the Commission; here Mr. Jašarević suggests that we go with the programme, with a kind of programme that would allow the Council of Ministers to, of course, co-operate with our commission, in some ways, plan, or plan these accumulated funds that will obviously not be spent and that will be accumulated by the end of the year. That's what I realized, of course. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13485	...in the debate on this item of the agenda of one of the Council of Ministers who again has an obligation to report to us on this, no matter what the Presidency and the Council of Ministers do. This proposal for a program is less painful and provides a chance that cannot even be realized, so it's just an attempt to do those programs that can be done for this many days of the year. If not done, the other point (2nd) The Finance and Budget Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers and makes an obligation to do a multi-annual programme of capital expenditure, and then from next year on, they would certainly be more ready to make it easier for us to enter these procedures. So, perhaps, here is the president who will, of course, come out later on, might make sense instead of rebalancing to accept this milder version of the Council of Ministers' programme.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13486	Okay. Mr. Bahtić, what do you say?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13487	There's no microphone involved... a problem at another point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13488	Don't move me into the Rules of Procedure now. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13489	I know, I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13490	Mr. Jukić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13491	Here we are now in a classic example of the consequences of our, I would say, unquality work. But I don't mean the commission itself, I mean the guests, or whoever's supposed to be on this committee, and it's not. So I think this is about significant assets, so it's about 10% of the last year's budget. So it's not that little. We need to know what the amount of those funds is. And I think it was correct and it was necessary for someone from the Presidency, so the Presidency and the Council of Ministers, the Resorb Ministry, to show up with whoever should be on the committee and then try and agree with this committee on the spot, or... say what. So these conclusions, whether their realization is realistically possible in, I don't know, these three other months of this current year, or the solution is something else. And that might be why it might be best for us not to decide here today, to postpone the plea, and in the meantime the Council of Ministers to get acquainted with our conclusions and this debate here, and it would be good to have these conclusions, of course, after the Commission's session is over, and then to show themselves to today's session. And here, I'll... I'll say another one of my thoughts. When we look at what all the funds from our budget are spent last year, then we see very significant funds spent on, I don't know, renting space, and at the same time we have surpluses, and it's significant, neutral assets. Indeed, the big question is whether we can justify it to whoever's assets are, and these are taxpayers' funds, BiH citizens, in this way. The logical question arises, wouldn't it be logical that some of the funds were invested in building, solving space, and not that every year very significant funds were given for renting space, and then it goes on forever, we have a surplus of actually neutral assets, at the same time we pay for what things shouldn't be paid, we create persistent costs and expenditures on the side of the budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13492	Thank you, Mr. Jukić. Here, Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13493	I'll be brief. I think this discussion is quite fine. And that we...... have a session of the Commission at the end of the month, so that the Council of Ministers can meet this problem, if the Presidency should come back to the Commission. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13494	You see, I suggest that we adopt this report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution. When it comes to the proposed conclusions, we have two variants. Let's return this committee with instructions, with guidelines in the context of what Mr. Jašarević was talking about the rest of us or to the others now on the spot instead of the word rebalancing, etc. in this proposal, we say: a programme which the Council of Ministers, in co-operation with the Presidency, will do with our commission. That's two different options. Here, as far as I'm concerned, I'm fully in the mood for both. Here's what you think. So are we going to adopt a report on the implementation of the budget of institutions in each variant, so let us adopt it because it is a positive opinion of the Commission and that, when it comes to these proposals, we have two variants: or we now adopt it immediately or we return to the Commission. Here you go, Mr. Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13495	...can be that I'll step away from this little old principle. So, by what I know about the budgets, and, well, I've been hanging out a little bit, it's much better to decide to go with the Council of Ministers' program, but to get to know this home. So this is the best way to create /Mr Belkić and Jašarević speak out loud/ So it's not legal consent, but it is what, here's what's going to happen, that it has the right to react. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13497	If you followed me well, then I fully agree with you. I'm just asking for the modality: are we going to do it now or are we going to ask the Commission to do it again, to say, re-read, or change the proposal for conclusions and prepare them for the next session, and now to adopt the report on the implementation of the Budget of the institutions, here. Please, so here's the deal. I propose that we now declare our report on the execution of the Budget, on the Commission's report with no conclusions. Please, this report is fine, but I am saying that today we are adopting a report on the execution of the Budget that has received a positive opinion in this report. So this part of the report on the execution of the Budget. No conclusions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 107 23 votes "yes", two "against", six "abstained", a sufficient entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2006 and part of the Report of the Competent Commission, with the obligation, i.e. a recommendation to the Finance and Budget Commission to amend the Report's proposal by the next session, in the sense that instead of opening the rebalancing procedure, a programme for the allocation of neutral funds in 2007. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda: ad. 19. Review of the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2006, which is: (a) the BiH Ministry of Justice, (b) the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, offices and services, (c) the Ministry of Communications and Transport, (d) the BiH Presidency, (e) the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, (f) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, (g) the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, (h) the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, (i) the BiH Law Department, (j) the BiH State Service Agency, (k) the Directorate for the Implementation of Police Resolution So we have reports from the Office for Auditing eleven institutions. Our committee of directors delivered the Commission's reports on 3rd of September. In the reports of this commission, they propose to the House for adoption of the appropriate recommendations contained in the reports, with a note and before this commission has informed us that there are generals, so to speak, recommendations that apply to all users, and here are specific recommendations for each individual user. Here, the President of the Commission comes forward for a few introductory notes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13499	The Commission therefore discussed ten audit reports at each meeting.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13500	Please, a little patience and attention. We don't have much left. Patience and attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13501	We at the Commission means in writing to inform everyone and one institution that we are sending them the Report and that they are then bound by a certain deadline to address those shortcomings, means that they also respect the recommendations of the audit, and to inform the Finance and Budget Commission 108 and this paragraph. And after we've finished everything, 53 reports, then we'll form a set of analyses, meet this Parliament and the Council of Ministers. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13502	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić. Of course, I failed to say hello and to say that Mr. Ševo and Mr. Kulin, our auditors are here. If of course you have needs, please, and it is also possible to ask for some interpretations if there is a need. So, I'm opening a debate on the reports. If we have an extra one, Sadik, you don't say anything in Parliament. No, no, what about our surplus, what's being deployed, is there any surplus in Parliament? There isn't. Okay. I'm just kidding. So, I'm opening a debate. Here you go. So here's the suggestions. I'm closing the debate because there was no debate. Please state if we will vote on the reports of the Office with the Commission's reports in the package? Prepare to vote. Vote now! We are pleading on a way to declare these reports. Well, I hope you voted, if that's what you're up for, I hope you voted. So with 25 votes "yes", without "against", two "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority, Dom decided to declare these reports in the package. Allow me just before the vote to read what we say. So, on the report of the Office for Audit, Report by our competent committees for: BiH Ministry of Justice, General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Office and Service, Ministry of Communications and Transport, BiH Presidency, Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of BiH, High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, BiH's Attorney General, BiH State Service Agency and the Police Restructuring Directorate, please prepare to vote on these reports. Vote now! With 26 votes "yes", one "against", four "abstained", enough entity majority, I agree that we adopted the Office's Review Report and the reports of our Commission on institutions that I had read ahead of the vote. 109 We move to point 20. Ad. 20. Direct TV transmission of Parliamentary Assembly session It is a proposal from the National Club and the SDP Club of BiH. This was suggested by the clubs to be included in the agenda. I don't have any special materials, except I can inform you again that we're like the College with a trail of your demands, etc. We've been sending written requests and having conversations with responsible people with TVBiH, and unfortunately, we haven't been able to provide for a few reasons. So we haven't been able to secure the transmission of the entire session of the House of Representatives, with our Rules of Procedure, probably something Milorad is going to talk about, talking about the transfer of the hour when these parliamentary issues are, etc. But here I am, not wasting my time, giving the initiators and the drivers of this initiative a chance to introduce this agenda at today's session. Here, I invite the representatives of the National Club and the SDP Club to if they want to, of course. Here you go, Mr. Halilović. I welcome the auditors. I thank you for your presence.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13504	Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13505	It's unusual for me. There's no farmer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13506	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13507	And there's no minister. Excuse me, excuse me, Mr. Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13508	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13509	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13510	I've been thinking about what I should say here as an explanation for this initiative, because this is already the fourth attempt to make me...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13511	May I have your attention, please? 110
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13512	...this is already the fourth attempt for us in this House to try to get this point to the agenda, with the expectation that MPs will have the understanding and will adopt the conclusion by which the College of the House of Representatives undertakes to ensure a direct TV transmission of the session of the highest legislative authority in BiH. The excuse that there is only one channel on BHTV and that it is not possible simply does not stand, because there is only one channel and on the TV Republika Srpska so it conveys all those sessions. There's one channel on municipal television, so they carry all the sessions, there's one channel on cantonal TV, and all the cantons of the session. And it is interesting, where, where the public most expects to see this highest legislative authority in BiH, to see the work of Parliament and the Council of Ministers, there is one, in my opinion, bizarre argument that there are no technical options, although I claim there are. When... we talk to citizens; we launched this request at the request of a large number of citizens, from the Pensioners' Association that threatened to stop paying the TV subscription to a number of other associations and citizens who asked to see what was going on in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and what the Council of Ministers is doing. We have concluded that the political situation among citizens is at the level of '91. the years, and, in fact,... whoever sits here in Parliament and listens to all these discussions, there is no such conclusion that the relationship here between people, between different and national and party clubs, is such. So, if it were a TV broadcast, we would send a very clear message from here if the situation wasn't so sharpened as it seems when you read the newspaper or watch this or watch these, you would dare me say free, dependent TV in BiH. On the other hand, BiH is the only country, from Turkey to Northern Ireland or Sweden, which does not conduct a direct TV transmission of parliaments, because in all countries other than BiH, TV is being broadcast and I think citizens have the right to know what we are doing here and what we stand for, what we talk about, etc. My opinion, or the opinion of the National Club and the SDP Club, is that TV transmission would directly affect the quality of this Parliament's work, to make the work of MPs very serious, because in that case I think there would be less absence and more activity and that everyone would come here with read materials, not half or unread material, so that they knew what we were voting for or not to vote for. And I am also sure that the presence of the Council of Ministers would be far greater, because in this way the public has the opportunity to monitor the work of the Council of Ministers and thus directly bring its own courts and conclusions, rather than on the basis of information served to them. It is my personal opinion that it does not exist here, that there should not be any MP here who should not support this initiative or possibly just those MPs who fear that one of their own, if one of them were to assume that such is there, that some of their crimes or some of their party mate or boss would be covered up. Therefore, I expect here unanimous support of this request, the conclusion that the College undertakes to ensure the direct TV transmission of these sessions of Parliament. 111 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13513	One sentence. So it's true and you're absolutely right, I share an opinion with everything you've been talking about. It is true that it transmits cantonal television, municipal television, etc., but it is true that they are funded 100% of those whose sessions are transmitted. I know that because I did it. Here you go, Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13514	Not repeating what counterpart Halilović was saying, I would like to say that it should indeed be of interest and I think that all MPs in the House of Representatives should be able to enable all citizens in this country to be properly and timely informed about the work of this legislative body. And I don't think there's any need for us to deny the public any quality of information. I remind you that this has a part of it, so this question has a part of it and a business dimension: the Rules of Procedure by which this House of Representative works in Article 153. (I don't know exactly what position) among other things, he prescribed that obligation. Indeed, there is a great interest of citizens to monitor the developments in the BiH Parliament, but I believe that there should be an interest and MPs in Parliament for this transfer for the simple reason why a perception is created in the public that nothing is done here, etc. I think the transfer would allow it to prove, however, that something is being done in this BiH Parliament. So the first principled question arises: Will we allow the people, the voters who elected us yesterday to this highest legislative body to have the opportunity to monitor the work of this Parliament or will we deny them that possibility? The second dimension is this business dimension. It is not possible to escape from what counterpart Halilović said that it is small and illogical that almost every municipal council, here I am talking in Tuzla Canton you can monitor its sessions, the cantonal assembly, here we have heard an example of how it is in the RS Assembly, and that we do not have a chance, or citizens do not have the opportunity to see the work of the BiH Parliament. I must say that direct TV transmission – it is nevertheless a civilizational and democratic fluid, the fluids of Western developed countries. Which countries today don't have TV transmissions, which aren't transparent, don't need much talking. BiH should not be a banana state. I've got a letter here that's 20. – if you will, I have a letter from 21 May 2007 in which BHT Director General Mr Agović addressed directly here to Parliament and the chairman, Mr Belkić. He told us on May 21st, here I quote, that BHT1 will closely and continuously monitor the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for why it has, in addition to the legal obligation, and particularly the programme interest due to the unquestionable public interest. However, this was in May of the month. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13515	That made me happy, I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13516	Yeah. But here we can all realize together that this letter has not been realized without using the word that we have been deceived as Parliament in this regard. I think it is important here at this session to remind myself of another document: namely the OSCE mission organised a seminar within the programme to strengthen the legislative authority and it was a seminar and education for all MPs in Parliament; many of us were present at the seminar. It was held on 24 May of this year and the seminar's objectives, according to seminars or education, were, among other things, to meet the following needs: Parliament's need and desire to communicate with citizens, the need to understand the role of the media and the situation in BiH, and the need for MPs in Parliament to make the best use of media contacts, etc. I must say that this seminar lasted all day, but just to quote this part of what we are talking about today: Participants in the debate have shown the need for legislative and executive power to be transparent about their work. However, citizens cannot monitor the work of MPs in parliament, they do not have access to the work of MPs. This is because their work does not appear, there is no live parliamentary session transfer, and BiH is the only country in Southeast Europe and the EU where this is the case. So, this is also the conclusion of this seminar organised by the OSCE as expressed in the conclusions where...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13517	So, I'm asking you to talk about how we're going to provide, so I'm absolutely more than you are for it, but tell me how to provide it. That's what I wanted everyone to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13518	Mr. Belkić, not all of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13519	Yeah, right, everybody. Easy, easy. First, let's show the will that we want, and if we want to, we'll find very easy mechanisms to do. For a simple reason, if we don't know how to deal with state television, then there's a very simple solution. The president of the Slovenian Parliament's Vanjskopolitical Committee has proposed a model here; let's ask people in Croatia, who also have a direct transmission all day - how they did it. Let's ask little Montenegro that has a direct transmission, Serbia, Macedonia, all EU countries. 113 So there are a number of models that can be realized. I agree with you, I think we're familiar with a lot and I'll end up with the next one. Of the 42 MPs in the House of Representatives, I do not believe that there are any of us 42 who did not appear in the election campaign for the last general election, on TV, on the radio, on jumbo posters, on small posters, etc. So, all MPs then care to be seen when we made promises, etc., now that those same citizens who elected us to this House of Representatives need to see what is done here, how their interests are represented, how those promises are realized, we need to deny them that. Now, allow me, it may be a difficult assessment, but it would be political immorality, on our part, if we could deny people the opportunity to follow this Parliament's work as people in all 27 EU member states and even all neighbours and all countries are created by the disintegration of the former SFRY. Mr. Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13520	I am a public worker, but since I've been a Parliamentarian at a local level for a long time, I'd just like to have some of my experiences down from the municipal structures... mentioned. When we introduced transfers at the local level, afterwards, either local or these parliamentary elections, it extended, extended, the duration of the assembly by one hour and ten minutes. Before the local election in two hours forty-five minutes. And for the parliamentary elections in three hours and twenty-five minutes. It was at six months and lower... before the elections, with average agenda points from 28 to 34. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13521	Raguž, Dokić, Jovičić, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13522	Thank you, Mr. President. All arguments for and against.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13523	Is this a break? _________(?) Let's vote. Shall we take a break for 10 minutes? No, I'm really asking. Here I agree, please pause for 10 minutes. It doesn't make sense, man talks.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13525	You can't give up now that you've given me your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13526	Well, people are getting up! Martina, how do I stop them? Here, people rise, they come out. 114
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13527	I'd tell people who want to listen and who are... esteemed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13528	Please, you who want to come out, come out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13529	I won't. Now I'm thanking you. I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13530	Don't give up, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13531	I will, I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13532	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13533	There's more reason, let me just say one sentence. So when you put one and another arguments on the table, there is no argument that this Parliament is out of the public eye.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13534	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13535	We can't defend that anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13536	We're in no position to secure a transmission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13537	And this is not a matter of position. We are able, it's not true, there was no agreement within the College in the last session, we could, but these are political blockades. Let's get...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13538	In this conference, we have consent, full consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13539	...let's make a decision and give the task to those who need the people to see what we're doing, not to... 115
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13540	Well, then, don't waste any time. So, I'm responsible for having no transmission. So, I wasn't able to provide television, force her to carry these sessions. I'm bound to do it again, but please allow us to relieve the President of the Management Board and the Director if they refuse. No, no. No problem, Mr. Križanović. Don't waste your time, I'm less afraid of the public than you, be sure, be safe. So don't replace the thesis. We are ready absolutely and the College as a whole to carry this, but we need to see under what conditions and that this Parliament stands behind us and tell us what these instruments are to force them to do. We can't set up the Corporate Management Board, because the Federal Parliament hasn't passed the law yet, so it's not this, so we're returning, so one Management Board file reports, so a member of the Management Board is another report. This Parliament does not have the authority to replace those directors, etc. Great, we'll replace them, Sefere, if within 10 days they don't start transmitting. I will write to them that Parliament will replace them if they do not pass the meetings within 10 days. Let's not waste any time. I'm in, absolutely. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13541	Obviously, there are double criteria here. Like we're all for TV, when it comes to a vote, then we see who's leaving the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13542	I am in, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13543	So there are double criteria here. We're all for a TV broadcast, when it's time to vote, then...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13544	Well, we'll see when we vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13545	...then they go, one part goes through the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13546	We'll see, they'll be back for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13547	Second question. Let us do our part as Parliament, make a statement and make a decision, and then we will move on to see what we do.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13548	Thank you. 116 Drago Kalabić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13549	I'm going to use a little replica, since...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13550	May I have your attention, please? If we're all gonna go out, here, look, people are getting up, I'm gonna lose the quorum. Okay. Here you go, Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13551	...right on the back of the story who's for, the SNSD Club is absolutely for direct transmission and we'll give our vote so that no speculation means on this topic of moderation and on who needs to realize. Is this the Secretariat of the Assembly, technical possibilities and what should be, preparation and the Club of SNSD will give its vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13552	I'm proposing a 10-minute break. So, 10 minutes break, people get tired. After 10 minutes of break, we close the debate and vote immediately. [[Common discussion]] Well, half the people came out. Here, I'll call people and ask them to come back. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13555	You heard the president of our club. We support and this is the best thing to attract the Council of Ministers to be here. Because there's no way they're coming, and when they're cameras, first, second, third and fourth rows are filled, and that's gonna be good. And this isn't an insinuation to the PDP, so we're going to oblige Zlatko Lagumdžija to attend the entire session. SDP, I'm sorry. PDP's here, it'll be them. 117
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13556	So please state the conclusion proposed by the clubs National Club and the SDP Club to commit Bosnia and Herzegovina TV to conduct a direct transfer of the meeting of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13557	Mr. Chairman, I'll only be a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13558	We're all a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13559	I don't mind, but the club discipline obliges me to vote for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13560	Why are you making a problem for yourself, then? Listen to discipline and.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13561	Wait a minute, let's be pragmatic, I beg you. It's not rational, be sure to pass the whole session. But we can ask that TV BHTV1 makes every two hours, or every three hours, a contribution, a 15-20 minute chronicle or how many. That's more rational, but here's what I'm gonna vote for first.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13562	Let me tell you, these are modifications. You see that we plead. Please let us be clear about the conclusion proposal, so we'll see, the College will, of course, implement it, so we'll see what we're on and I'll immediately inform you what's being proposed. I guess that's where the demands of this nature will be, but here's what we'll see. So, please let us be clear about the conclusion. You heard the conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 17 votes "yes", three "against", one "abstained", enough entity majority, the House of Representatives has reached a conclusion that obliges BHTV1 to directly transfer the meeting of the BiH House of Representatives. Please be patient, we only have two more. Please. Listing of course. You surprised me. Please, we have point 21. 118 Ad. 21. Amendment to the Decision appointing the members of the Commission for the selection of the Auditor-General and of the Vice-General in the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions In short, we, making an earlier decision on the composition of this commission, failed to choose two members from the opposition in the Commission, to which the Revision Act and the State Audit Office obliges us. We have proposed a proposal to you at the Enlarged College, i.e. at the College, and it is said: - instead of Slavko Jovičić in the Commission is called Momčilo Novaković; - instead of Alma Čolo in the Commission is named Adem Ibrahimović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13564	This will be decided by the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13565	Of course, the House of Nations will decide on this second part, and we decide on this replacement. I don't know if it's a shame to lose Slavko in this. Please, I don't know, it's a shame, but here, Slavko, sacrifice yourself for the opposition. So, please prepare for the vote. So please prepare to vote. We vote on replacing a member of the Commission for the selection of the auditor general: instead of Slavko Jovičić Momčilo Novaković. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! With 24 votes "yes", without votes "against" and six "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority, the House of Representatives has made an amendment to the Decision and to the Commission to elect an auditor instead of Mr. Slavko Jovičić, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. We have another agenda point, and that's 22.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13566	It's the House of Peoples.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-06-0.u13567	It's the House of Peoples. Ad. 22. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of the judiciary and or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 119 b) Funding Agreement, or additional financing of the Community Development Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association. Do you agree that we vote in a package or individually? Two are all agreements? Please make a statement. So, are you willing to vote in the package? Vote now! With 31 votes "yes", with no "no" votes, with enough entity majority, we decided to declare these two agreements in the package. Not to say again, they're on the record. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now! So, just a little patience. 30 votes "yes", without "against", to a sufficient entity majority, we agreed on these two agreements that I read in the minutes. Two information. We're planning orientational, please orientational, next session on September 26th. I shall also inform you that the 11th of September rotation is in the position of the chairman, first and second deputy. So, of the 11th Mr. Milorad Živković is the chairman, Mr. Niko Lozančić is the first vice-president, I am the second vice-president. Here, for your information, it will be done on the 11th public, so to speak. I thank you for your cooperation for these eight months. Well, I thank you for your cooperation now. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 7.20 p.m.
