ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u355	Dear colleagues and colleagues, present officials from the Council of Ministers, from international organisations, NGOs, media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 6th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. We've got a slight count of each other. So there are 11 MPs present at the session. Of which is 3 from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people. Mr Hilmo Neimarlija, Zoran Koprivica, Ivo Miro Jović and Mrs Alma Čolo justified the absence, since they were officially prevented from attending the House session today. Before we move to the agenda, I must inform you that for legitimate reasons, we will not discuss item 4 of the agenda you received in the invitation to the 6th session, which is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on concessions of BiH, whose proposing is the House of Representatives, for one simple reason why this proposal was not on the committee responsible. The new agenda, cleansed, is shared. For the 6th session, therefore, I propose the next agenda, with mandatory agenda points. Number one, agenda one. Answers to envoy questions and envoy questions, 2. The adoption of the 5th session of the House of Peoples, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH (first reading), 4. Report by the BiH Presidency on the decisions taken on pardon for 2006, 5. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, 6. Report on the business of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2006, 7. Report by the Ad hoc committee on the examination of the justification of the complaints submitted to the established ranking list for the selection of the main auditor and the deputy chief auditor at the BiH Institutions Audit Office, 2 8. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on the Military Grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol relating to financial support between the BiH Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey, 9. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the North Atlantic Contracting Organisation (NATO) on Information Security, 10. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on Defence Cooperation, 11. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement establishing a rail network of great opportunities in Southeast Europe, 12. Giving consent to ratifying the basic contract between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Holy See and the Additional Protocol to the Basic Treaty, 13. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the return and acceptance of non-compliant persons, or no longer meeting the conditions for entry or stay in the territory of another country, 14. Adherence to the ratification of the Convention for the unification of certain regulations in international air transport, 15 / 15 Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on State Border Cooperation, 16. Giving consent to ratifying the Interim Free Trade Agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the United Nations Mission of Temporary Administration in Kosovo, 17. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Peoples to the Interresor Working Group to prepare the text of the draft law amending and supplementing the law ( BiH Election Law, the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties), 18. Information on the activities undertaken with a view to overcoming the problem in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals and any consequences that may arise in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals by applying certain applicable rules with a proposal for a conclusion, 19. Proposal for a decision on the establishment and part-round of inter-parliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other states, 20. Proposal for a Regulation on the international activities of PSBiH, 21. The orientation plan of the House of Peoples for the period June-December 2007. So these are the items of the House College's agenda, so the mandatory points that are included in the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone picking up? Take it easy, we'll take it in a row. I have the impression that Mr. Šaraba raised his hand first. Here you go, Mr. Šarab. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u356	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I suggest to the Kolegijum that... the agenda of today's session, thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I propose to the Kolegijum to remove item 12 from today's session in the agenda, giving consent to ratification of the basic contract between BiH and the Holy See. That's what I'm explaining to the following arguments. As a matter of fact, I have absolutely nothing against this agreement with the Holy See, on the contrary, I consider it necessary, but I believe that it should be placed on the agenda only when the Presidency is referred to the parliamentary procedure by the Treaty with the Serbian Orthodox Church and other religious communities, if such contracts appear. I will say specifically, since against the signing of this contract that I have mentioned, there were two members of the Bureau at the meeting of the Presidency held on 26.06, Mr Silajdžić and Komšić, who, at least to me, sent a message that they do not have the same relationship with the religious communities in BiH. Given that at the meeting of the Commission for Foreign and Trade Policy, 20.06., which was held and when this agreement was discussed, it was concluded that support was given, but provided that an agreement on the acceptance of the basic agreement between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH was entered into the parliamentary procedure. In that direction, I submit this proposal as I said at the beginning. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Now behind that, Mr. Rančić asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow guests, allow me to express my dissatisfaction with today's proposed agenda of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. As you have read now by the chairman, we see that there is only one law on today's agenda, and this proposal for a law amending the Law on the Service in the Armed Forces, first reading, then there are four reports, a few giving consent to ratification of the agreement, as well as a proposal for a Decision establishing a section of the Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the Parliamentary Assembly, a proposal for a regulation on international activities, our orientation plan and information on the activities undertaken in relation to overcoming the problem in the work of the Office for Considering Appeals. My dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with the Bošnjak Club in the House of Peoples is because we know that it is in the procedure, in the 4 parliamentary procedure that there are 19 laws that could and should be on the agenda of today's session. Namely, I ask the question, why is there no Higher Education Act at today’s session that has passed the proper procedure at the House of Representatives, and today it is to be at the agenda session as a mandatory part of the agenda? Also, from the call for the 7th session of the Constitutional Commission we see and we know, therefore, that we have about 17 laws that need to be treated from the point of view by the Constitutional Commission. Why the Constitutional Commission did not hold its session in time, took appropriate views in terms of compliance, whether these laws with the Constitution, with principles etc. with legal order so that we as the House of Nations could have very important laws on the agenda, and how would we be as effective as possible? Now, it seems to me that once we have the right carelessness, I can say the free, thin agenda, with only one law and with most of these agreements, while 19 laws stand, say, waiting for a session of the Constitutional Commission. We are particularly concerned that the session, scheduled for July 7th, on the agenda, is not included in the Higher Education Act at all. This dissatisfaction by the Commission of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of our home led you to say as a College here at the introduction that the Law on concessions which also passed the procedure in front of the House of Representatives must be removed even though the call for a session was proposed to be included in today's agenda. So, I express my dissatisfaction on behalf of the Club and I ask the College of the House of Nations as well as this time, the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and in other cases, of course, other committees that are responsible for the relevant regulations, that everyone does their job in time, in order to make the House of Peoples and the entire Parliamentary Assembly more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u359	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u360	The esteemed chairman, the esteemed colleague, has no co-worker, so I'm alone, dear colleagues, I'd like to say two things. The first one is about Mr. Šaraba's proposal. Indeed, none of us from the Serbian People's Club last night when we were preparing for the session, we didn't think that this item could be removed from the agenda, but we also couldn't think that in the Presidency of 3 members of the Presidency, 2 votes would have anything to do with it, in addition to what they should, which is proposed to regulate and to ratify relations with the Holy See, that the same reciprocity should not be applied to the Serbian Orthodox Church. At times, it seems to me that this inequality that we often talk about is manifested in different ways. The Bureau has shown a really good will, not only to sign the basic Treaty, but also to the Additional Protocol, so these two documents, that there are two documents relating to the Treaty with the Holy See and that two sessions are dedicated to it. I would like to remind you that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has taken this request very seriously and on 28 May, the House of Representatives sent a conclusion to the Council of Ministers, which states that the Council of Ministers of BiH undertakes to ensure, together with other participants in the preparation of contracts and agreements, that the Treaty with the Serbian Orthodox Church is discussed at the next session of the House of Representatives, on 13 June 2007. So it's a letter that went to the House of Representatives. So the predstavnički of Representatives did everything they needed to do. Afterwards, the Council of Ministers also made an effort to send a reply and said that they did everything on their part and that the proposal for a basic contract between the Serbian Orthodox Church of BiH via the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees was sent to the presidency for further procedure and that it was in charge, the minister of human rights and refugees, and that they were waiting for an answer. Eh, so this is new information, that Silajdžić is parathic and Komšić is against the Treaty with the Serbian Psravoslavic Church. Eh, so, I am speaking now on behalf of the club, if there are political forces in this country, which are against it, that in a quality way relations with the Serbian Orthodox Church, I think it is not correct on our part to talk and to support any decisions that relate in a similar way to the others, until this issue is resolved. In that context, I suggest that, I've been to take this off, if it doesn't take off, it won't, it'll be ugly to happen to vote, to refuse, and we'll have to do it means it. I'm asking the presidency to have an understanding, better to wait, better to wait than to refuse this. That's one thing. And another thing, I suggest adding two-point agendas, so point 22 and 23 is being introduced, because we have it all over. There's really no reason that the agenda points that have been completed, the last commission phase, there's no reason to wait for the next one, in a month, to carry the idea of what the writer was going to say a month ago. So, I propose that the report on the three-month financial report of the BiH institutions' audit office for 2007, so that's an obligation under the law, to deliver quarterly reports, and the commission has made a proposal, that's one thing. And secondly, information held in a meeting with representatives of the World Bank. This is important to enter as part of the agenda because it is about the deadline, it is about the material that the Parliamentary Assembly is obliged to deliver to the Council of Ministers, but I would talk about it if there were to be these two additional points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u361	I didn't understand this, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u362	Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u363	6 This second is the report on the discussion with the World Bank delegation, is that it?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u364	That's right, yes, about a meeting with the presidents of the World Bank. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u366	Ladies and gentlemen, regarding the proposals and suggestions for today's session and agenda, I would like to make my point. First, when it comes to an agreement with the Vatican and this Additional Protocol, because in a certain way I also participated as a member of the Presidency in the activities and conclusion, negotiation and conclusion of the agreement. And it is true what the delegates of the order, from the Serbian People's Club, say in principle that the agreements with the Vatican, with the Islamic community, with the Serbian Orthodox Church, etc. They should work in parallel and, if possible, treat that matter in the same way and be adopted in a parliamentary procedure. However, there is one important difference and a formal difference between a contract concluded with the Vatican as a state and on the other hand the Islamic Community and the Serbian Orthodox Church, as religious communities. When it comes to an agreement with the Vatican, we are far away from here and, uh, it would be politically harmful to me now and we would send a bad message, uh, unless we adopt this agreement. I think, by the way, it's not good to condition, uh, one thing to another thing, you know. Let's just say because the Presidency hasn't decided anything, we won't do it. Tomorrow someone, the Croatian Club or Bošnjak will say, that the Council of Ministers has not decided anything, we will not vote on it. So take, what if we had said as the Bosniak Club, we wouldn't have ratified the dual citizenship agreement with Serbia and Croatia until the citizenship law changed, because we have certain objections here, you know. I'm afraid if we went like that, we'd be in some kind of blockade every time and everyone would stop someone, you know. I don't think that's good and it's not good because of an international reputation and position and relationship BiH has with the Vatican. The Vatican is very important, it has a significant place in international relations. It is not good also because of the relationship the Vatican has towards BiH, which has had all the time of the conflicts and everything, those messages that papa Pavle vi sent and the assistance provided by BiH. However, I also think that neither the Vatican nor us here should adopt any agreement without a nation against it. That, uh, looking politically, is not good. Normally, if it comes to the agenda and we discuss it, we will vote in favour of the protocol, but I would also like this at the Club of Delegates of the Serb People to direct, however, an appeal, here is an application for this to go on the agenda, to adopt this, not to condition it. I'm afraid that, tomorrow, if we're in this policy of conditionality, exclusion, we're going to go here and this House, we're going to block tomorrow and some other agreements and laws. If you don't want us to do this, we won't do it. If, I don't know, the Presidency hasn't decided like this, we're not going to vote 7 for it, if the Council of Ministers can be, it's dangerous for this precedent to be done in such a way, especially as it comes to one very important, sensitive agreement that we've agreed for a long time and where there was one patience and, uh, understanding was shown by the Vatican and on our part, which, as we have done, we're going to make a joke that will apply to these other religious communities. I don't think I know why the presidency didn't adopt exactly, that information on the media, I don't know, I think Mr. Komšić has something to do with schooling a mandatory class at school, I don't know why Mr. Silajdžić didn't, it's possible that these things would go away, that at the next session of the Presidency it would go away, but let's not take such a practice to do that. That was strong, this house has worked nicely so far and we've made arrangements. What we can do, put on the agenda, pass, which we can't, take off, and move on, etc. But the condition of one agreement, I don't know you, the behavior of another institution, I think it's one dangerous precedent, and that could bring us back later on on, on other issues. Therefore, I urge, if possible, to take a break so that the Club of Delegates from the order of the Serbian people, here, maybe we should have done this sooner, this, as far as possible, change the attitude now. And the second question Mr. Rančić asked here, I really think that the President of the Constitutional Commission should have made an effort to make these laws that were here and that could be considered, to find themselves on the agenda, to get what the House of Representatives did, especially the Law on Higher Education. How he will pass at the House of Peoples, whether he will be adopted, whether vital interest will be drawn, etc. It's another thing, you know, but he had to meet today and because it's one of the conditions for BiH to sign an association agreement, you know. No one can, no matter who's chairing a body, stop the procedure, you know. And here you can see that for the next session of the Constitutional Commission it is not proposed. As Vice-President of the Commission, I will make a written proposal to put it on the agenda and we will discuss it on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Ivanic answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u368	I think that around this, these agreements are played by big political games where conflicts are to be made where there are no reasons and where political goals are to be achieved very strange. Several injuries, first, the commission that had ratified has not been informed that the conclusion of the House of Representatives that was a condition for the further ratification process has not been met. She was then told that she held a session in 20.06 that it was all over, and it was essentially not because she did not pass the agreement at the Bureau. The agreement is identical with 8 Vatican, identical, in basic elements exactly the same, which is perfectly logical. And so it should be with the Islamic religious community, therefore, completely logical. I fell among politicians who were also present at the signing ceremony, among the few of the representatives of politicians who were not of the Croatian people, I was present because I knew and felt that the agreement should be supported. And I have no objection to him and I have no objection to his ratification. But I have a comment on everything that happens on the BiH scene in which the first reason for not signing the agreement was that it should be signed by the patriarch, not by some of the Bosnian-Herzegovic bishops, who, indirectly, wanted to make a difference to make the Bosnian Orthodox Church by doing so. It is the first incorrect move of a part of the political public in BiH that was absolutely inappropriate. And behind it, and behind it all, it's, in my deep conviction, not the content, but the fact that it's trying to make it here not to be signed by a patriarch who's based in Belgrade, and that's what's really hitting me in this whole story. We had, because of the sensitivity of this topic, one agreement that has been going on for two years and that cannot be realized, which is that all three religious communities, understanding the specificity of the Vatican as a state, we went on to first the Vatican to be and that it was the very reason by which everything else and all the time, as a human being, I was standing behind it all the time. And really stood to the end. And I don't want anyone to be more interested in the Vatican Agreement than I am in the Vatican, especially, no, I don't know, that I'm not talking right now, my predecessor, my minor, he's like an agreement, and I'm not. That's not true. I am, too, but I am also in favour of reaching an agreement with all other religious communities. And if they're all on, you know how sensitive that is. If I don't need to talk to anyone about the sensitivity of this issue, then I don't need to talk to this House of People. So, Serbian MPs are not against ratification of the Vatican Agreement, but they fear that if we ratify this now, there will never be an agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church again, which we ourselves, and the Islamic religious community, and we could never allow it. The frustrations of individual members of the Presidency are their problem. But they don't have the right as political personalities to make an environment negative in this country on something that could have been extremely positive. Extraordinary positive. And since there are a few things, first, the commission is not informed. Otherwise, if the commission had been informed, I don't think the conditions for this to be a mandatory point, and secondly, in Article 62 have been met. The Rules of Procedure are very clear that in case there are no proposings, I do not see anyone from, no, not the Presidency, not the Presidency, but, uh, the Foreign Ministry, there is no one, and the Rules of Procedure allow us to get off the agenda, if we want to when there is no, I suggest, when there is no promoter, I suggest we take off because we have no intention of blocking this, to stop, to bring it down. It is our only wish that the Agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church, which the Council of Ministers has completed, all ended, an identical agreement practically with the Vatican except in the section relating to state matters, not to pass. And I don't want to make a different version of it at all. So the condition is that it can be removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u370	'Cause I think it's better if we take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u371	You're repeating yourself, we've heard it. Thank you very much. I think I can do it from this place, not get up for a pay phone. I'm going to suggest home a way out of this situation. First, I believe that, in line with the Rules of Procedure, the additions to the agenda with the proposal of point 22 and point 23 could be accepted as suggested by Mrs Majkić. Point 22 reads – Consideration of the three-month financial report by the Office or the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions for 2007. Point 23 reads – Consideration Information on a meeting held with representatives of the World Bank. I now ask you, therefore, to accept these additions to the agenda. I'd like to make a statement on these agenda points for today. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the addition of the agenda as I read it and that Mrs. Majkić suggested it. Furthermore, there is a point 12 that the proposal has come to remove from the agenda. It is giving consent to ratifying the basic contract between BiH and the Holy See and the Additional Protocol on the Basic Treaty. And since this is the item of the agenda, which is a mandatory item of the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure of our House, because Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure, says: 1) The College shall include the drafts of the laws and reports of the Commission and any other item which is mandatory in accordance with this Rules of Procedure. And in paragraph 2, it says as follows: The mandatory point shall be the one that has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or, if unanimously so, by the Commission of the House. There is both both and each other present and mandatory agenda point we cannot objectively take off the agenda. But I suggest a way out of this situation. So, to keep it as a last resort, so it's going to end, just a little bit, we're going to redistribute these agenda points now and we're not going to, for the reason that we don't put ourselves in a position, so, and we're jeopardizing this agreement, we're going to make a statement about it. But we won't think we've finished the session, the 6th session of the House of Peoples. The session's continuation bought time for this to be negotiated, this very complex, significant political issue in the presidency, which was discussed, therefore, on the BiH-Serbian Orthodox Church Treaty. If it is the same text as we have before us between BiH and the Vatican to remove these problems. Here is a word between the state and the state, 10 there is a word between the state and, therefore, the religious community, the Serbian Orthodox Church and, therefore, another one follows us, and that is the Islamic Religious Community. Let the Presidency find a solution to get out of this problem, so that we do not question, therefore, the mandatory item of the agenda of the contract between the two states that passed the complete procedure and came to the House of Nations as the last instance to give consent and the Presidency should ratify it. In order not to question again the ratification of this interstate act in this same Presidency that needs to be dismissed and this previous issue. I'm asking you to accept the agenda. So we don't say anything about him. But to accept that it has been redefined, that this point 12, which is in the redefined agenda, is now the last point, when, before we make a statement on this point, this, stop, stop the work of the 6th session and have a follow-up after an agreement has been reached in the Presidency. Please, is this acceptable for this home?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u372	Can I have another sentence?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u373	I'd like to conclude my work. We've stayed very long.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u374	I have a need.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u375	Here you go, Mladen, if you need one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u376	I quoted article 62. Rules of Procedure – In the event of the absence of the motionor, questions discussed at the House session, the House may decide to suspend, postpone or lead the debate and without the applicant. We need to define ourselves as one of the three variants, we don't have a proposing, I don't even think we have a motion from the Department of Defense either. I don't know, no, well, well, people, it's a relationship to Dom.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u377	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanić. It was
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u378	But then let's face it, if we're going to run without, I don't mind. But then we agree to conduct a debate without a proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u379	11 Please be nice. Mladen, thank you very much. So it was also a business basis for this proposal that I gave you. Not to remove the mandatory point from the agenda, because we do not have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure, to put it last, there is not an authorised applicant, so we will postpone the debate and interrupt the session and continue the debate after we have received, therefore, all relevant information from the proposings of this international legal act. So, please, let us be clear about this proposal. Who's up for a proposal like this? Who's in favour of this proposal, please? Thank you. So 10 for 1 abstention. We have established, therefore, the agenda with two additional points and point 12. We will consider it as the last and before the debate on this point is opened, we will interrupt today's work, we will consider this 6th session, and we will continue it as we have agreed and after the Presidency has been shown on the subject that we have agreed on. We move, therefore, to the first item of the agenda, the first item of the agenda is: Ad. 1. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions Delivered in writing. The answers to the envoy's questions came only to Mr. Jović, since he is not here, we can't ask him if he's satisfied with, they just came to Mr. Jović, we won't ask him. We'll ask him at the next session if he's happy. But I'm asking you, is there any new questions? I only have one delivered here in writing by Mr Rajić. Mr. Rajić, please. So you'll get your turn, and write your question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u382	We'll respect the Rules of Procedure, okay, thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Rajić, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u383	My short-introduction parliamentary issue is directed towards the BiH Council of Ministers. It is known that there is a move by the Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions to a renovated building next door to this Parliament. Some information suggests that intensive receptions of all categories of employees are being made for the needs of those who will be placed in the building. There is a suspicion that the reception is not carried out in accordance with the regulations and that it does not provide an adequate national structure in the total number of newly admitted. 12 For this reason, my question to the Council of Ministers reads: 1. What general act does the staff receive? 2. Who's doing the reception? 3. How is the public covered by the procedure and availability under the same conditions of all interested parties? 4. How many new ones were received in 2007? 5. What is the national structure of the newly admitted? Six. What is the national structure of the total staff of the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u384	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u385	Mr. Chairman, I'm not an irresponsible person that I don't know, uh, that should be handed over, but the custom was, it's carrying an inheritance from the House of Representatives, to be read mostly, so then surrenders, here, I really can't forget
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u386	Article 145 of our Rules of Procedure, it is good to remember
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u387	There's a habit I wear on my own. So I'm still waiting for an answer to my delegate question and I'm always afraid that the same story will happen again that the delegates' questions will be repeated and collected, and that the answers will be barely or in the hints. However, I would still ask that there be records when there are delegates, because we are not asking these questions just for questions but we want to influence or change things if the answer we receive does not satisfy our demands. In that sense, I would like to ask you a question that reads: The report on the 2005 audit of BiH institutions, which formed the Office for Audit, found that a number of budget users did not resolve the appointment of management. Whether or not the mandates have expired, whether the procedure for appointment has not been consistently respected. I ask the Council of Ministers to answer me: When will they organise a single record of all mandates that would include, among other things, the time of appointment and the end of the term of office of officials in BiH institutions? 13 This would allow not only in time to initiate the procedure for new appointments, but rather to avoid the practice of technical mandates, performers and other temporary solutions that do not contribute to the effective work of BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u388	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić, the remark you made that you didn't get the answers goes to face and to the soul of those you asked. Mr. Šaraba has two questions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u389	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, but before I ask the question, I'd like to make a brief note. In fact, I asked a delegate question at House 2, which was 30.03. and I still didn't get an answer which resulted in a violation of Ruler 147 and I, here, refer another appeal to the competent institutions that I referred this question to to to forward the answer that was requested. Two short questions, both headed towards the BiH Foreign Ministry, the first question is: 1. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have information on whether and when the border crossing in Ivanica will get the status of a test crossing? Ivanica's border crossing is a series of extremely frequent crossings during this summer period and throughout the year, given the proximity of Dubrovnik, and its importance for this part of BiH and RS is extremely large. The Republic of Croatia continues to treat this transition as a passenger, although it has been announced on several occasions that it will be turned into a goods crossing, which in economic and life terms would mean a lot for this region. And the second question, also to the Foreign Ministry: 2. Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sign at the Regional Conference in Neum on 27 and 28 April in connection with the use of the natural resources of this part of BiH and RS? On 27 April and 28 April, a regional conference dedicated to co-operation at BiH, Montenegro and Croatia. According to announcements, the three countries' foreign ministers were to agree on how to manage natural resources in this area. Since among other things, water is one of the important, if not the most significant natural resources of this area, it was only expected that the Foreign Ministry would inform the Parliamentary Assembly of this meeting where individual commissions, which is my opinion, would certainly have the need to participate. Since this has not happened, and the media has been very general and a shura of statements, I am asking the question in my conviction that during the next 14th period, such conferences will appear as participants and MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u390	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Any more questions? So, we conclude with questions, we are waiting for an answer to your question that you have referred to the Council of Ministers and the Presidency. We're going to move to agenda two now, that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes of the 5th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm putting the record of the 5th session on the record. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 5th session. Let's go to point three. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, this is the first reading
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u393	15 Since Mr. Tihić, and here is Mr. Šaraba, this, from the Defence Commission, I thought that some of them would say something. This, this report on the Bill's Proposal, amending the Law on Service in the Armed Forces, BiH is proposing the Council of Ministers, which contains, therefore, the amendment and, therefore, also proposes principles and amendments. I suggest we consider it on that basis. So, what this is about, is a small law that has a single sentence and is related to, in the event of the need of service, the Secretary of odbrana may extend the duration of the service to the officers, officers and soldiers after years of life provided for in point (a) of point (b) of point (c) of Article 1. So no one should have to do anything against that principle, only the amendment treated the obligation to inform the control body as, which is Parliament once a year who are those to whom it has been extended. So, the simple law and I now think there's no reason to take it off.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u394	Thank you very much. Very clearly, and I don't think it makes any sense to take it off, so here's the promoter of our House of Representatives, which went through at the House of Representatives, so it's the Proposer. Let us forget everything in the earlier procedure, who were participants in the process, who proposed, who discussed it as responsible etc., we have here and the Joint Commission, but this Law passed the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives was the one who sent it to us to the House of Peoples to decide. And this one, I think, would be appropriate today. What? It would be appropriate to carry out the discussion in both the first and second readings and to end the procedure of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u395	Thank you, Chairman, just to see if we're saying the same thing? This is the proposal of the Council of Ministers to the old Rules of Procedure, as the proposal came in 12.09.2016 and since it was not done in the previous meeting came to us later. We also have the position of our committee, the ustavnopravni and Joint Commission for Defence and Security. So, it's, it's not, uh, the House of Representatives. So we have a Joint Commission of both homes that made that decision and the ustavnopravni Court of our House and we're going towards the old Rules of Procedure and the principles and amendments in one reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u396	Thank you very much, therefore, for this extra one, and I would still get ahold of that, so the Joint Commission of both homes unanimously established this proposal that we now have on the bench. So, I suggest we do the first reading, do the second reading and end the procedure for this law so that it can go public. 16 Let us be clear about this proposal. So let's go to first reading. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Here you go. I'm closing the debate, putting the law in the first reading. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the bill in the first reading. I suggest we open the discussion in another reading. Who's in? I agree that we accepted it unanimously in the second reading. I'm opening a debate. There was no amendment. Who wants a word? I'm closing, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Ljubičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u397	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I only have one comment. I normally have my own position on this, and I'm going to join my colleagues in adopting this law. Why did I answer that? I have reported for one reason about these previous discussions within this previous point and the agenda agreement. I think it is unacceptable what Mr Ivanić said about the presence of colleagues, i.e. gentlemen from the ministries. I would suggest that here goes one of our views, the remarks of the House of People towards all ministries in the context of Mr Ivanić's comments and discussion that these gentlemen are obliged, simply to be required, must respect the Rules of Procedure, that they are obliged to attend the points of the agenda as legislators. It's simple to put these gentlemen from the departments in a position to respect their decisions, the Rules of Procedure and respect this home. It's all about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u398	I absolutely support it, and that's what it says in our Rules of Procedure. We can make an additional conclusion, again appeal that all the applicants, therefore, whether it is the Council of Minsitare or someone else, are obliged to attend the session when the home discusses mandatory items of the agenda. I think, therefore, we can do the opposite, that we will take it off the agenda until the relevant person who will participate in the work comes, so when we decide on that item of the agenda. I ask that in this sense, therefore, let this be the conclusion that we will send after this session, so to the Council of Ministers in the first order, because the Council of Ministers is 95%, this case is the legislator. 17 So we heard this remark, we accepted it. Is there anything else in the second reading that anyone else needs to say about this bill? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill in the second reading. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted this law. He is in the same text as the House of Representatives, so they should go prepare for the publication of this act. Report under four Ads. 4. BiH Presidency Report on Decisions on Compassionation for 2006 The report was submitted by the BiH Presidency, as well as the report from the competent commission you received may, therefore, be by material for discussion. The House of Representatives took this into account. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? At the House of Representatives. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u400	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. I must state my personal position that I cannot accept the proposal for this pardon decision adopted by the Presidency and, as a report, referred to the Parliamentary Assembly. The reason is next. I think it would be correct that all the institutions involved in the preparation of the proposal had a fully agreed position and that the Presidency eventually, as the last statement in the decision-making chain, accepted the harmonised position of all the institutions involved in giving and collecting opinions. Since this did not happen, that one number of institutions had a different opinion, and the Presidency eventually made another decision in relation to that opinion, I cannot support this report and I do not think that it should be adopted. Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u401	Thank you very much. We heard Mr. Šaraba's opinion. I just have to remind myself, we don't have a chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission here who is officially absent but I am obliged to inform the home, or remind, or, uh, to look at point three that the Constitutional Commission has received notice of the decisions taken on pardon and to propose to the home that the same notification be received together with this opinion. 18 I would very much like to respect the views of our permanent bodies. Who wants another word? Mrs. Majkić, please. The lady has an advantage, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u402	Well, you know what it's like, when a man looks at the report, he might say he's missing something, but if he wants to be well-intentioned, I've been looking for what he's got, so yes, it's a decision that would make me accept or reject something. I saw the Justice Department formed a commission. Therefore, in accordance with the powers stemming from the Law on Compassionation, that by decision of 19 January 2006, the Commission was formed. The Commission is formed for the efficiency of the process and I would, uh, think it would be some measure that would have been enough for me if more people had watched this thing, if it hadn't ended up as a story of three people who could have done it one way or another. The Commission, I see, has worked very zealously. They held eight sessions, contained all the applications, placed on the table one, on one number suggested that it be adopted, the other part rejected. I can see that the Presidency also dealt with the team in the previous meeting, which is probably what Mr. Tihić will talk about, but also in the new council. So, we have the decisions of the two convocations of the Presidency. It is not a large number of people, as I have seen the Presidency consider a total of 34 applications and in 8 cases it has accepted a request, a request. So it's not a large number of people. When I looked at what it was, how much pardon it was -- the weather -- it's mostly a few months, and I think one or two cases up to a year. And this would be good if there was someone here to tell us a little bit about this. We have no, we have the opinion of a court who practically, as a rule, said that the request for pardon was not respected, and therefore finally the Bureau made such a decision. I would like, if there is some information that can no longer be, which is not contained in this material, I expect Mr. Tihić to be able to say something more, so that we can put up our hand and accept, or receive this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u403	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Tihić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u404	Ladies and gentlemen. I again feel somewhat called because I participated in the part, uh, of the activities considered today as a member of the Presidency and I can tell you that we at the Presidency were quite critical when it came to pardoning. There were even cases, uh, that we went under where we were getting the Justice Department's proposals to grant a pardon, for example. This one case most discussed - drug trafficking. We have had such four or five cases, only one is partially respected at the Justice Ministry's proposal, or commission, and according to the recommendation of the correctional home. They suggested here, let's take eight months to get a pardon, we said it was 4 19 months, you know, and we've been around for a long time. You've seen 30, and I don't know four, five pardons just in 8 cases given pardon. But what's important here, uh, and that's all when you add up pardons, somewhere a year and a half turns out that we've given all these pardons during that term of office. But what does it matter here when you talk about pardon? One is the criteria for pardoning, one is the criteria for condemnation. This is mercy. In every country, there is this institution. In BiH too, there are several humanitarian, social, etc., and when judgment is passed, there are other criteria, weight of actions, I don't know you, tenacity, exclusion, punishment, etc., method of enforcement. Here's something, here's quite, uh, something else, and I think, when it's the House of Representatives and, I don't know, even when there's a debate about this institution of pardon, there's no respect for this fact that pardon is an act of mercy. And then it takes care of the social situation, how much this person, how social situation, how many children there are, what they live on, takes care of what the criminal correction institution says, whether that person has improved, whether the purpose of the punishment has been achieved, etc. And the Presidency, in this sense, has always kept track and made its decisions against the court's proposal, then criminal correctional institutions and the justice ministry. The Bureau has never made a decision different from what was proposed when it comes to these pardon decisions. I think that, probably, since it is the first time in BiH that the Presidency gives a pardon, it should certainly be there for some time to create one practice, that, uh, and this measure, this act of mercy, to set certain criteria, that we may have, perhaps, a little more, this, elaborated and that the public might, perhaps, be better informed about all these reasons for giving parole, you know, and not just to single out one case and unilaterally consider it. Normally I am now, I find it awkward to suggest that this report be adopted by the commission, but I think it makes sense that this should be taken into account without any particular treatment, reports, as this is said. So, always making sure that that's where we act, the presidency acts like a man, like people, you know, you look at each other, human side, and this one I was also a judge, I was a prosecutor, and then you're in a completely different position, and then you reason differently. You're looking at one human side here, looking at those humanitarian, social, family opportunities, people's health opportunities, and you're making a decision. You see here that there has been, there has been very little pardon, you know, uh, 20% of the retailer's applications have been respected and it has always been done according to the proposals and opinions of the institutions that prepare these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u405	Thank you very much, Mr. Tihić. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Vidović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u406	20 Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I am a member of the Constitutional Commission and at the session that discussed this issue I did not attend because I was officially absent, but what I would say at that session, here, I want to say here at home today. So, the material in this matter that we have received, and on the work of the Presidency, I would, as well as the representative, have accepted as a member of the commission the way the Constitutional Commission did. So, respecting Mr. Tihić's explanation and what's being explained here and what's being prepared for the session of the Constitutional Commission, I, therefore, as a representative, can accept, and in that sense, today, this report, in the same way, should be taken into account, not getting into the details, and new thoughts and new proposals next year, of course, now may be the time to talk about what Mr. Šaraba was saying. Therefore, for me it is acceptable and just the conclusion, as the Constitutional Commission has suggested, I think it can be at this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Šaraba wants, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u408	Mr. Chairman, just one brief explanation. Respecting the real reasons that Mr. Tihić stated, I have to say one principled thing, so. If an opinion has already been asked, it makes perfect sense to me that this opinion is respected to the end. So if there is a request for a court to give its opinion and its position and if the court gives a negative view, then I think it should be respected. So, but I don't mind what the Presidency has made this decision, I'm just making a principled point. And the principled attitude is that if you're looking for something, then it should be respected to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u409	Thank you very much. We're already entering the polemics. Here you go, Mr. Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u410	I'm sorry, but here's the thing, I don't really want to do it, but the decision-making process requires three opinions, you know the court's opinion, the opinion of a criminal correctional institution, and the opinion of the Justice Department, you know. And sometimes those three opinions don't match that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u411	Thank you very much. Is everything clear now? Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. So, I suggest that we don't plead on this report, so let's, after all this debate and all that we've heard, it seems to me that the, uh, most of us should take it into knowledge. That is what he proposes, after all, and our Constitutional Commission. 21 We move to the next item of the agenda, that's Ad. 5. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH You received this report and received a report from the Constitutional Court. The House of Representatives adopted this report. Is anyone picking up? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u413	So, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. This report that we received and which has been discussed on the Constitutional Legal Commission is very large and very significant and I think there are some messages that I have to comment on here. I'll go on 125. It is clear from this report that all our basic and municipal courts have one very big problem and this problem is called municipal objects, municipal objects. These are small-value items and in the past year, the total number of cases that were in these basic and municipal courts is 48%. So, a huge number of cases that represent a very large burden on courts and a very big problem, and I think that in this conclusion on the 125th, according to us, one request or one appeal to make full co-operation between BiH institutions, from legislative to executive, is being sent to the Parliamentary Assembly to try to overcome this problem. In this regard, I am indeed also discussing and I believe that, perhaps, today's session of our home should be one first step or that we should take the first step in this direction, how this issue, at least as far as the legislative authorities are concerned, begins to be resolved in the direction of removing those barriers that exist in the courts, which, perhaps, concern the legislative authorities. That's the first question. And the other question is one really subjective question. I can't help but question the responsibility of those judges in cases where the suspects spent months in prisons, and the whole process ended in their acquittal. I find it totally inadmissible that this issue is happening and that these people, who have conducted these actions, eventually pass without any responsibility. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u414	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. Anybody else want a word? I would just, uh, warn that a carefully read and report by our commission that in point 3 is just suggesting what you suggested. At the same time, this is at 3 points, the commission suggests that we receive this report, to accept how the House of Representatives did, to take it into knowledge. 22 Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u415	...with a proposal for conclusions from our commission, here's a colleague of the Šarabe who spoke about these communal cases I won't discuss much. What I would suggest is that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, together with the courts, undertake additional activities to activate and implement the mediation process in BiH, and that this does not end only on pilot projects in Sarajevo and Banja Luka. So, we have positive regulations, we have institutionally established around training and the Mediator's Association, so, according to my knowledge, a number of people went through that training, got those titles, registered. If we have regulations regarding resolving certain types of disputes through mediation, if we have conditions for it, I think they should be applied in other courts, not just in Sarajevo and Banja Luka, as a pilot project. So, to be in Tuzla, and Bihac, both in space and other cantonal and county courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u416	Thank you very much. It's a very interesting suggestion. So, I think that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council can encourage, therefore, after the debate in this House and after the conclusion that we can make, additionally with the conclusions proposed by the Constitutional Commission, that maximum envolving itself, therefore, in this problem with courts which are covered by various cases which may, in accordance with the Mediation Act, be the subject of the agreement, therefore, mediators and parties in the dispute so that these courts may be disbursed. I mean, it's a very, very high-quality, so a proposal for a conclusion. I absolutely support him. Anybody else want a word? Can we accept, therefore, the report, therefore, the Constitutional Commission with a proposal for this conclusion which I, in a certain way, have, uh, formulated after Mr. Rančić's proposal. Who's in? I agree that we have also accepted the position of the Constitutional Commission and Mr Rančić's proposal in the way he proposed it and I tried to redefine it – formulate it. We're going to the six-day line, that's Ad. Six. Business report of BiH Institutions Audit Office 2006 You got that report. Here's the report on the office's business, the commission's report. The commission, you saw, has reached certain conclusions whose adoption, therefore, suggests a home. The House of Representatives accepted that report, if you've all read it. I don't know if there's any need, Mrs. Majkić? I'd like to open a debate on this report. Who wants a word? 23 Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u418	Well, thank you very much. So, the House of Representatives adopted the Business Report on the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2006 and, as you can see, the committee responsible, so the Finance Commission and the budget of our home also adopted the document. But here, I ask my colleagues to concentrate on these Commission proposals that took place in the framework of the Report and the Office's audit business, because these are unanimous conclusions concerning Article 6. Law on the revision of BiH institutions. In particular, this section relating to point 2 of the BiH House of Peoples obliges the Finance and Budget Commission to, in accordance with the Audit Act, in co-operation with the Finance and Budget Committee of the Representatives' House, form a commission that will appoint an independent audit house to review the BiH institutions' annual financial reports. I remind you that the Revision Act was passed in 2006, that enough time had passed, that enough time had passed to review the report by the Office for Audit by an independent auditory house. To do so, it is necessary to form a joint commission of both homes and to do that part of the job. I therefore turn to this subcommittee which will review, to review the final reports of the Office for Audit, i.e. to pay attention, especially to the negative ones and those with the reserve, because the current communication between the Office for Audit and Parliament as a control mechanism was not satisfactory. So here, all the five proposals proposed by the Finance and Budget Commission concern increasing the capacity of the Committee of the Peoples for Budget and Finance, and I propose that the report be adopted by the Commission as well as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u419	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? He joins us in the work and the President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Ivo Miro Jović, welcome. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on a statement, so the Commission's report in full with points 1 to 5. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the Business Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions with the proposed conclusions in the report of the competent commission. Moving to point seven, Ad. Seven. Report by the Ad hoc committee on the examination of the justification of the complaints submitted to the established ranking list for the selection of the main auditor and the deputy chief auditor in the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions 24 As you know, the House of Nations appointed Mrs Alma Čola, Mr Ivo Mir Jović and Mrs Dušanka Majkić at its 5th session to the Ad hoc committee to examine the justification of the complaints submitted to the established ranking list for the selection of the Chief Auditor and Deputy Chief Auditor. The House of Representatives did the same. He appointed Mr Halid Genjac, Mr Vinko Zorić and Mr Slavko Jovičić to this commission. The commission made up a report. It proposes a decision to cancel a public tender for the selection of the main auditor and deputy chief auditor, and to appoint a new commission to elect the main auditor and deputy chief auditor of the BiH Audit Office. You received the report, signed by the chairman of the Ad hoc commission, Mrs Dušanka Majkić. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u421	First, I must say, I am extremely glad that Mr Ivo Miro Jović has come. I felt very alone, given that I was a member of this Ad hoc commission, and that I had never had a harder task, and that I wouldn't be subjective, I'm glad that Mr. Jović came to confirm or deny what I'm about to say. Never, I mean, the Parliamentary Assembly was in a worse position to prove whether someone had done their job correctly, and believe me, I couldn't believe that people could easily understand their mission so that they could play, not just with a serious institution like this, but that they could play with the fate of the country, if they could score or not score what they had to do. Another important thing, like the impression before I say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u422	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u423	So, uh, I'd like to hear it because it's a delicate thing, so it's important that we all hear it. So, outside the Commission's House of Representatives were Mr Halid Genjac, who was also the chairman of this election commission in the previous meeting, so Vinko Zorić and Slavko Jovičić. Mr. Vinko Zorić and Halid Genjac are institutional memory, so they should have explained to the Ad hoc commission what it was and how this all happened. The criteria introduced by the commission were such that it was difficult to have a united view because people were subjectively assessing it. Well, for example, the condition for the review report that was kicked out of the law, he was subsequently introduced by the commission. They put down the first people's audits to the level of accountants, which they certainly didn't, they're managers. That is why the commission has assessed in several, in these five groups, 5 25 points where, in fact, the problems, why we were unable to do what this home has given us as a task, and the home has given us the task of examining the justification of the complaints submitted to the established ranking list for the selection of the general auditor and vice-general auditor, and that, if it finds that there has been a breach of proceedings, in that part, it shall make corrections and submit a new ranking list to the home. I can tell you that there were baseless additions plus six points to no points without any basis. I can tell you that there's been a crossover, vague, I know a man can make a mistake, but that his mistake doesn't initialize it, I can't figure it out. People got the paper they carried home. I guess even after some calls and I don't know everything, that someone came and crossed the first impression of the candidate. Imagine from 5 to 1. When there were criteria, when it comes to criteria such as language knowledge, imagine a criterion that can be proved at random, so one of the candidates says in an interview – I speak passive language, and then in a complaint he says – so it's not me talking actively, you don't need proof so I can say what I want. So, a terrible one of seriousness and one inconsistencies, perhaps these are the too difficult words that I speak in this place, but I really couldn't believe that MPs and delegates from the former Assembly could have had this kind of approach to the work of a serious commission. What was this commission supposed to do? We took complaints, so there were three complaints. We took the turn. Analyze the item by item and I said here, we told you here that there were... points of candidates for the selection of the general auditor and his deputies by established criteria for the score from the decision. So the decision meant - 0.5 points times the number of years, imagine someone writes - a man is 4 years old, he doesn't want 5 times 4 to be 2 points but to write 1.5. And I think he wants me to... see how, what it looked like. Different points as a result of different interpretations of individual criteria. Imagine the question that someone was working in public finances and now it's proven, one of the candidates said so I was the assistant commander in the unit and I was in the finance unit, so I don't know what could have been done in the unit, what kind of funding did it in public. Wrong entry points after certain criteria into the scoreboard form and final scoresheet. So imagine you write one thing in one place and now you transfer another number to that final list where you need to see the total number of points. The unsettled and unsigned correction of points according to certain criteria, the patterns for individual candidates, which remained as an evident trace of the observations made and we, anything to do, are opening up a process of complaint and infinity in this case. So, in the end, we found one part, so the commission found that one number of candidates were justified, one part unwarranted, and some complaints by the Ad hoc commission could not be made clear, given that certain benchmarks were not sufficiently accurate. Moreover, these additional criteria were introduced, adopted subsequently, imagine criteria which were not known by members, namely candidates who applied for the competition, they did not know all the criteria they would have to meet. So there were some generals and specials, and then the commission decided to add some more, and those weren't people who knew when they were running. So, the question, who would have reported it all to the competition if it had been all written. 26 Another fact is that the law says so. Don't, Mr. Tihić, I have to, you haven't seen a situation like this in your life, you certainly haven't.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u424	We believe you've worked hard, but you keep going. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u425	The law states that candidates can be economic and legal professions. They had absolutely no chance of candidates of legal professions because additional criteria were excluded from all of this and only those economists could have been. And I told the one most significant, which we excluded from the law, the controversy was so much conducted in the past session of this law, that the criteria prescribed the possession of an audit certificate as if man were going to be audited by BiH institutions. So, I wish I hadn't had to be a participant of this, if I hadn't as a man been spared that things like this could happen in Parliament, and that's why I, and let me tell you the whole commission, so this is a unanimous conclusion that the commission considers us to know absolutely, I'm also most of the members of the Finance and Budget Commission, which means the audit institution. But as Mr. One of SIGME, who has been present all along and during law-making and following the entire audit work, you have the opportunity to only choose between two evils. And the wrong thing to do, to open a trial for next year's trial and trial of this case may be the worst, so this is the decision he proposed. Here, I ask Mr Ivo Mir Jović, he has his own position, therefore, there we absolutely did not differ as members of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u426	Thank you very much. Only if Mr. Jović has something new to say, so we heard everything, report received, report read, arguments ahead of us, but if you want to say something, please. IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u427	Well, I'd try to fix the picture a little bit, the tone's good, but the picture isn't. I welcome you, I thank you dear colleagues for respecting me because I left Brussels yesterday at 5:00 p.m., and here I was able to get there, in Zenica I changed my clothes. Uh, unlike my colleague, I was happy to be on this committee. Because I think that this is finally corrected by one injustice and the guilt of the last call of Parliament. We are in the Presidency, here Mr Tihić, on two, three occasions, suggested to Parliament to adhere to the law and, imagine, Parliament was making decisions that were not in accordance with the law and the result of this normally must be so negative. That's why with all the notes that my colleague made, I'm in agreement, but, look, I've had to say this part, brought into that position, I think 27 when it comes to cross-checking, we can leave a very ugly picture of our colleagues, especially with journalists, that's not so. It's in work material, it should be stressed, so it's working material in official documents there's no line anywhere. So the work material is all colleagues in the commission what they did left as evidence for work, so they left their cartoons and normally in those cartoons is so, and they dictated an official list and it's accurate and it's not touched in it. The second thing I'd like to say here, in what my colleague pointed out, which is the criterion made up of that commission. There was, in a way, not enough to be able to do such a job based on these criteria. And especially then brought to my position if you have, I will express myself with one of these picturesque expressions, coin, artistic impression, joined by the candidate and he got grades from the man who sits in front of him, I can't get into why the man gave 2 or 4 because he was based on the conversation, in that credit system he didn't even touch and then we decided most to make the suggestion on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u428	Thank you very much. No one will be denied the word, especially the chairman of this committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u429	You certainly got, Mr Filipović, and the other deputies a letter that came yesterday addressed to the chairman of both homes and vice-presidents of both homes, sent by the Swedish State Audit Office and signed by a person who is the project manager, named Arijana Anderson, she writes to Parliament, so the project manager addresses the Parliamentary Assembly and begins a letter with - Honored Mr Belkić, and if the copy below, so Mr Belkić does not chair both homes
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u430	They think that only Belkić... parliament, let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u431	Please, if this is a new experience, this is a new experience that we have in BiH, so the Paraliamentary Assembly is making its regular communication through certain bodies and it is known that either OHR or someone is representing and not only interests individually but also certain institutions that appear to the OHR institution and that everyone can communicate through certain institutions with the Parliamentary Assembly. But I don't think in a close parliamentary life a situation like this can be found that the heads of the project teams, therefore the heads of the project teams present in BiH, address directly to the Parliamentary Assembly. Imagine what will happen after the OHR's departure when all the heads of the project teams head towards Parliament and why it would be logical for the Swedish office, or 28 managers of this project, to report when the competition problems occurred. It appears shortly after the end or before the end of the work of the Ad hoc commission. I consider it primarily as an attack on Parliament, therefore, an attempt to pre-war something, i.e. the commission's work. I'm asking you to keep the dignity of this home and only in the context that I've been talking about at all about this case without paying attention to all those who harassed us to make such a decision or such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u432	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubičić needs a word. We'll morati to finish this session by 12:30, preferably, it would be very polite because of the obligations ahead, Friday is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u433	I'll try to be brief. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman of the Honorable Gentlemen. By listening to Mrs Dušanka, I considered it necessary to make only one small comment again, perhaps I could have given it within the previous point we had already adopted. I just want to point out that, here, I remind all of us in a certain way, not only of us here, but of the others that all of this applies to. The application, i.e., better said, of the existence and application of laws in this area, the seriousness of the work of the commission, or not of the Commission, but of the audit offices, finds the Office of Audit, the relationship of institutions subject to audits, the relationship of other institutions that have the obligation to monitor these findings take certain measures on the basis of, meaning, these findings, Parliament's relationship with the findings of the Audit Commission, we must be aware that they are certainly the subject of the observation of certain institutions of the International Community as all these are carried out in this country. And I think it's the object of observing the institutions of the International Community within the complete process in which BiH is and all that we need to do and what our obligation is. I just said this that we simply need to take all this work seriously and we need to be aware of the seriousness, the existence of this office's work for review and the relationship of all those whom these are related to in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u434	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. So, this act has been sent by the Swedish Embassy to Parliament, this moment is an act addressed to me and my little bit has been handed to me, because it was not even received by the secretary of the secretariat, someone has confused something, but it is not a decisive fact, this, which we have just received, but the secretary will make sure that the acts that come addressed to certain names come in due time, this, before considering that item of the agenda if it refers to a certain item of the agenda. 29 So, the report we received, the arguments we received, I get the impression that it would be wise after all this which we heard was unanimously accepted, therefore, the report adopted by the Joint Ad hoc Commission of both homes and to accept the decision which they suggest on the basis of the facts which they gave us in six points of this Report. So to cancel this public tender and therefore form a new commission to open a new competition, it implies at the same time, if we accept this, and it seems to me that we agree to appoint three members of this House to this commission. It might be good, given that you've entered matter, if you accept it to be the same commission that investigated this and this is how this one was determined, so I would go in one row. I'd put on a plea, therefore, to accept the report of the Joint Ad hoc commission as a whole. Who's up for it? Thank you very much. Thus, we have ordered the opening of the Public Competition. At the same time, I propose that the Committee be proposed on behalf of the House of People: Mrs Alma Čolo, Mrs Dušanka Majkić and Mr Ivo Miro Jović, because they have already mastered the material. Who's in? I find that we have unanimously chosen a part of the Committee of Commons from this House. I wish you successful, hard work. Point 8 is: Ad. 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Military Grant between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Implementing Protocol relating to financial support between the BiH Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Republic of Turkey You received the report, the House of Representatives gave consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate. Who's in? I'm closing the debate. Who's in favour of giving consent to ratification? Who's in? I agree that we have agreed to ratify the act under point 8. Point 9 is: 30 Ad. Nine. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between BiH and the North Atlantic Contracting Organisation (NATO) on the security of information
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u439	You've probably noticed, you're a little less interested in this, so you're not. There is no link between the Central Adriatic ports and this network of great opportunities in this Agreement. It's about Split, it's about Zadar and Šibenk. I'm not saying that for the sake of Split, Sibenik and Zadar, uh, I'm saying that for the sake of the North-West Bosnia and those ports through which we have both imported and exported, there is not even connected these ports with some other corridor such as, say, 31 Lika railways. So, it's completely beyond all of this that I don't think is real. We have a connected river, there in Zagreb we have a joint board, is this how we have, and this part remains empty, and it is very important for us. Otherwise I have to tell you that this railroad, that's the railroad, so the Unc railway I'm talking about, was one of the busier stripes in the former state. There were over 80 trains per day. This is to be checked. I am not obstructing, therefore, suggesting that we ratify the Agreement, how we are able to run changes and supplements inside, I propose that we adopt one conclusion and oblige the Ministry to initiate an amendment to this Agreement, so that we oblige it to examine, identify, neither I nor I, define the need to establish this corridor, so through Bihac, a new one, and to initiate an amendment to this agreement that we now ratify to include and track the Union network of high capabilities in Southeast Europe, i.e. connect it all the way to the Adriatic port of the mentioned network, in addition to the future quality service of the needs of the North-Eastern Bosnia economy. So, I suggest... we ratify this agreement, so, as soon as we vote it, we adopt this conclusion as well, to oblige the Ministry to do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u440	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. You deliver this proposal to us in writing. I don't think it's questionable to initiate, therefore, the addition of this agreement but once it's ratified, that possibility is always open. Now if we were to touch and change anything, that would be inappropriate because it's been one thing, that's how I understood it, this one, but make a suggestion of a conclusion that we'll practically, here, accept as an initiative, direct it to the relevant bodies. I'm putting on a plea, therefore, that we give consent to ratification, therefore, of the Agreement in this form. Who's in? I agree that we have unanimously accepted, with this proposal for a conclusion to be delivered, which we have heard, therefore, which will deliver and define in writing Mr Ibrahimpašić. Thank you very much. Moving to point 12. That is, the current point 13 is, Ad.12 Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of Serbia-Montenegro on the return and acceptance of non-compliant persons, or no longer meeting the conditions for entry or stay on the territory of another country 32 Point 12 is transferred as the final point of today's agenda. So from the agenda point 12 and the current point 12 is point 13 and so we renumber that to the end of the agenda. The report you received from the commission, the House of Representatives gave consent to ratifying this act. I'm opening a debate. Who's in favor of giving consent to ratifying this act? I agree that we unanimously supported the ratification of this act under point 12. The new point 13 is Ad.13. Granting consent to ratify the Convention for the unification of certain regulations in international air transport
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u445	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I fully understand our position on these agreements. So we're here to just take pictures of each other, say we adopted something, and then we didn't do anything. We don't have the opportunity to influence, except in this way. We have reached a commission, so this one conclusion, so the members of the commission have decided to propose to the House of Peoples to give consent under this very clear condition, means that this paraphrasing that is completely unnecessary is thrown out of the text of this agreement. So it is our opinion that, or my opinion, it is completely unnecessary because in this way it is given international legitimacy in the process of concluding international agreements with the institutions of Kosovo at a small door, which is totally unacceptable to me and I believe that this conclusion is fully in place and that it should be forwarded in this manner as defined by the Commission. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u446	Thank you very much. This condition I fully understand. But I was taught at least so, therefore, that it's not common, so it's not allowed to change the decimal, not words or content, this, especially the signatories. But does anyone else want a word? He wants a word from an authorised promoter. I apologize for not knowing your name, but you will present yourselves at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u447	34 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates. I am Sabrija Šerifović, assistant minister of international trade relations at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. I would like first of all to tell you that this agreement has been negotiated and concluded completely in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the conclusion and resolution of international agreements. It's not about signing an agreement, it's about a parade. Contracting parties, this is seen everywhere by the ULMIK and the Council of Ministers, and a representative of the provisional government, as it is called, Kosovo has forged an agreement with the signing of ULMIK. I'll read you part of the internal memo of the ULMIK which is why we somehow had to accept that condition to be a paraphras in addition to the signature. I'll quote you that part of the internal memo. - UN Security Council Resolution 1244, '99. in the year, it gives the mandate to ULMIK to transfer administrative responsibilities to the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo with the supervision and support of their consolidation, as an institution of self-government. Under this mandate, a constitutional framework for temporary self-government in Kosovo has been declared to ensure that temporary self-government institutions in Kosovo can achieve and finalise, but not conclude an agreement in the field of international external co-operation. Powers to conclude an agreement with countries, international organisations have been reserved specifically for UN Secretary-General special representatives who co-ordinate such activities with the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo. In line with the above, the procedure leading to the conclusion of the Free Trade Treaty with BiH requires that a consultation be held between the provisional institutions of self-government in Kosovo and UNMIK before the draft contract is finalised. Here's another sentence. Furthermore, in accordance with the procedure established by the declaration of the constitutional framework and the establishment of temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo, the draft free trade agreement must be initialled or testified by the minister or authorised official of the competent authority within the temporary institutions of self-government in Kosovo when the contract is concluded. I would, I think, if you didn't need an additional explanation, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u448	Thank you too, Mr. Šerifović. I believe things are a little clearer now. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement, therefore, that the act, to give consent to the ratification of the Interim Free Trade Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo. Who, therefore, would be unconditional, so unconditional consent to ratification. Who's in favor of giving consent to ratification? 35 Just a little bit, we'll find that there's been an agreement to ratify this act. We have one vote against. The abstentions? There isn't. So, with one vote against, there was consent to ratifying this act. The new point 16 is Ad.16. The appointment of three MPs from the House of Peoples to the Interresor Working Group to prepare the text of the draft law amending and supplementing the laws of the Election Law of BiH, the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions and the Law on the financing of political parties In the Interresor Working Group on the Preparation of Texts The Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Election Law, the Law on Conflict of Interest in Government Institutions and the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the House of Representatives, Milorad Živković, so Collegij, Niko Lozančić and Šefik Džaferović, are not the College, are the two members of the College and the Šefik Džaferović, and the Interresor Working Group of the College of our House suggests that they be Filipović, Ivanić and Alma Čolo of the Bosniak People. Any new suggestions? Can this proposal be accepted? Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted, therefore, the composition, Alma Čolo from the Bosniak people, from Croatia's Ilija Filipović and Serbia's Mladen Ivanić. Point 17 is Ad.17. Information on the activities undertaken with a view to overcoming the problem in the work of the Board of Appeals and any possible consequences that may arise in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals by applying certain applicable rules with a proposal for a conclusion
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u451	36 We have received what is called “information” here on the activities undertaken in order to overcome the problem of the Board of Appeal, which, several times, had to read the man so that he actually understood the dramatic nature of this call in terms of: people, help, this all fails. But it can't be understood until two institutions are seen. One institution, the Public Procurement Agency, and the other is the Office for Discussing Appeals. The review report is coming to our attention soon, and we will have a chance to see how almost all the audit reports show that the problem of public procurement is evident. In order to understand just how serious this is, what we're talking about right now, I want to tell you that over a billion marks have been spent in the past year, on different levels and on public procurement. It is not difficult to conclude that unsettled relations in this area are an exceptional basis for crime and corruption and that if anyone in this country should care to improve the situation in these two institutions, it should be this parliament. The Finance and Budget Committee has dealt very seriously with this problem and what you have obtained in the form of reports, with the conclusions, is the tip of the iceberg, and we will continue to work with these two institutions until we seem to have made a real shift in their work. The conclusions that you have here defined, they kind of remind you of the basic activities that should be dealt with in the next period, and it's impossible here, no matter what information we have on the Office of Appeals, is impossible to observe only that institution, and not to analyse the Public Procurement Agency as well. In line with the Commission's conclusions, which stated that, in practice, there were gentlemen from both institutions present at the Commission's session, it is to consider their proposals to be submitted to the Commission and to make a concrete proposal for measures to overcome the problem in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals. Furthermore, to undertake the Agency for Public Procurement and the Office for the Review of Appeals that, within 7 days of the receipt of these conclusions, it constitutes an analysis of the draft amendments to the Law and the addition of the Law on Public Procurement which has come to us in the procedure. And, imagine, two key men and two institutions disagree with all the proposals that have been made there, believing that some important things have been dropped. Furthermore, it is up to the Council of Ministers to undertake all activities in filling jobs in the Office for Appeals under the Public Procurement Act. In the last term, we have named the full capacity of this institution, so 6 people, of which 2 Bošnjak, 2 Hrvat and 2 Srbin, and, please, from now on, the Office works with 4 persons. Of which, 2 Bošnjak are missing one Hrvat and one representative of the Serb people. People have left because they are unhappy with the state, that is, not making all the necessary decisions, so that these two institutions can work. We felt that management, no matter what the situation was and the unresolved, so anyone who could not do it for this institution, he did not do it. It is therefore requested from the Office's management to consider complaints that within 7 days of receipt of this conclusion, it shall submit to the House information on the activities undertaken to overcome the problem in the work of the Office of Appeal. Right now, in this office, more than 500 applications are waiting to be resolved. That means more than 500 items have been blocked. This means that these people can't go on vacations because they have to have a quorum, and the quorum is the 4th knap as many as there are, that if they leave the whole job on this unfinished, and we know what multimonth prolonging of public procurement procedures means. Because of the very serious and complex situation, I think that, especially according to the Council of Ministers, it may even be necessary to ask for a joint meeting and ask them to be resolved as soon as possible by the Agency for Public Procurement and the Office for the Review of Appeals. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u452	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Anybody else want a word? I propose that we accept, receive this information to the knowledge and make a statement on the proposal for the conclusions we received from the commission and on which Mrs Majkić spoke. Who's to make a suggestion like this, who's to make a suggestion like this? We accepted the information to the knowledge and conclusions unanimously. We're moving on to the 18th new agenda. That's Ad.18. Proposal for a decision on the establishment and part-round of inter-parliamentary friendship groups of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries At its 9th session, the House of Representatives adopted a Decision on the establishment and division of these interparliamentary groups of friendships, whose proposings were Mr Beriz Belkić, Mr Živković and Mr Lozančić, so the College. This decision was delivered to the House of Peoples for adoption in the same text. The college examined it thoroughly, so he read it and suggested that we accept it. After that, we would have talked, all MPs would have the right to declare in which committees, as listed, wish to work. The professional services will record it, we will receive material, and after that we will also discuss the persons who will be on behalf of the Parliamentary Assembly in these committees. Is anyone picking up? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of decision. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously accepted the motion for a decision as it came. The new agenda item 19 is 38 Ad.19. Proposal for a Regulation on international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u455	Just a few information, like a background of what's been going on so far. I want to remind you that these documents, by the way, are brought by the Administrative Commission, the Joint Administrative Commission, both at home. So it's not common for such documents to go to homes. But it happened, one case, and that's why this whole procedure has been disrupted. In his previous assembly, one of the MPs of the House of Representatives demanded that this document go to the House of Representatives. And the House of Representatives at its 84th session confirmed the document, not adopted but confirmed. As soon as he passed the procedure at the House of Representatives, it was required the same thing at the House of Peoples. Regardless of whether or not you have, and if we have had a comment on it, and I think there are things that should change, at this point there is not, Parliament does not have many things regulated by the Rules of Procedure and we need a document like this. And I think it would be good to adopt it, and then, after that, we should take a good look at it and submit it in the form of amendments to the Administrative Commission, what should be added or modified in this document, but it's very important, because at the end of the review notice and our positive report over the last two years is just because they thought this was still in the process, so we have a document. Well, I suggest we adopt him, and then if we have to change him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u456	Thank you very much. There is no ideal act and every act is subject to change if necessary. Thank you very much. I'm putting this act on the record. Who's in? I agree that we unanimously adopted this Regulation on the international activities of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Moving to point 20, new point 20, that's 39 Ad.20. Organizational Work Plan of the People's House for the June-December 2007 period In accordance with Article 54. The Rules of Procedure, the College of the House of Nations, established the Home's orientation work plan for a one-year period. Although according to the Rules of Procedure, the orientation plan is not put on the agenda of the House, we have done so for your information and for public information. So, no secret documents. He is susceptible, therefore, to the public, and certainly to the representatives, which is why we put him on the agenda. I suggest, therefore, I open the debate and suggest we take it to the knowledge. We do not plead at the House, this, to accept, therefore, to take note of the orientation plan of the House's work. Who wants a word? I'm putting on a statement to the Home Work Plan for this year, as you received in the proposal. Who's in? I realize we unanimously accepted that. Point 21. New and 22. proposed by Mrs. Majkić, so Ad.21. Discussing the quarterly financial report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2007
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u459	Just to add the review report is correct, as it has come to this end so far, but I remind you only of the conclusion, which is that this Finance and Budget Commission is proposing to the House of People, means that the Finance and Budget Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and, meaning, our home, three members are appointed to the Commission for the selection of an independent auditory house for the revision of the annual financial reports and that the Commission has also proposed that Dušanka Majkić, Hazim Rančić and Božo Rajić be appointed in that commission. So that's something we should do, so we're going to start this competition to choose an audit house.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u460	Anybody else want a word? 40 I would like to make a statement to Mrs. Majkić's proposal. I agree, therefore, that we have unanimously accepted this proposal, that there are Mrs Dušanka, Mr Hazim Rančić and Mr Božo Rajić. Thank you very much. The 22nd new item of the agenda is Ad.22. Discussion Information on a meeting held with representatives of the World Bank Mrs. Majkić, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u462	So, we had recently visited the Council of World Bank Executive Directors, Mr. Herman Vifels(?) and he held a meeting with a number of MEPs and delegates from the Commission on Finance and Budgets, the Commission on Economic Reform and Development and the Joint Commission on European Integration. Mr. Vifels? has come to inform the possibilities, which are the wishes that BiH is putting before the World Bank in the context of further co-operation. We are already in contact with different organisations that have realised that so far aid has been offered to different institutions, but almost in terms or insufficient was the assistance that has been made towards the BiH Parliament. A good example was the Security, Defence and Security Commission, assisted by the OSCE, has three representatives in it and the commission has proved to be the best commission, as a reference example of how commissions should work. I also suggested to the gentleman, I would ask you just to listen to me because it is very important for me to support you from the College, please, to strengthen the Parliamentary Assembly, to run certain topics in terms of strengthening capacities not only of the working bodies but also of the homes themselves. I can tell you that this has been very well accepted and it is believed that this reform of the construction of BiH institutions, particularly the control functions of the executive authority by Parliament, should be strengthened and that the Parliamentary Assembly needs help. And then we agreed to make a concrete proposal in the form of a topic, which would be the topics that we would need. I made a proposal that I made on the Finance Commission, and as you can see in the report, supported this proposal, to go as a composite, or integrated material of our wishes, that is, there is, therefore, no obligation at all, but to our Parliament's wishes to the Council of Ministers who have an obligation to send this document to the World Bank these days. I think that in the Parliamentary Assembly we need much more knowledge, especially we need knowledge in these more attractive committees that are directly related to the development of the economic mile in this country and that the Finance and Budget Commission, given its large scope of action, from budgets to audit reports, to what is not, may be the most needed. 41 I am here, in addition to you I have provided you with what it contains and what are the items that would be the subject of co-operation with the World Bank, or experts that would come to this topic and I ask you to support this material because this would be the first time Parliament has done something for itself. So far, we've been looking mainly for these things to be done by executive authority, to remember the Council of Ministers that we need something. I wish we could turn these things around, so that we can run for desires, what we need and our needs, that we can do it, not the Council of Ministers. So I didn't create, and the Commission, we didn't create any obligation, we created a proposal that would go within the integral material to the World Bank and if their opinion were positive, then it would be the subject of further discussion. There, that's all he does is get better information.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-06-29-0.u463	Thank you very much. So this is one initiative, one information about the future initiative. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it on the line and I suggest we accept this initiative and in this direction, how it is Mrs. Majkić, this, the committee responsible, therefore, is operating on these ideas that we've heard. Thank you very much. Who's in? I also find that we unanimously accepted this information about a meeting with the World Bank. We're going to now, the 23rd item of the agenda is going to be. We will now interrupt the work, so that we do not question giving consent to ratifying an international legal act between the BiH state and the Vatican state. We will continue the work of this 6th session before the work of the 7th session, this one, and this time let the gentlemen of the Serbian Club take advantage of the additional talks with the BiH Presidency on the removal of all the dilemmas they have. But we'll have it as a commitment, a part of the agenda, so we'll continue before we open the 7th session of the House of Peoples. I conclude, therefore, today's work. Continuing is pre-maintent, on the day of the 7th session. Thank you very much. The session was completed at 12:20 p.m.
