ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10109	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I am opening the 7th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, guests. I can conclude that the absence from today's session was justified only by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija and expressed hope that the other MPs who are here would join us, I suppose. I also welcome the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and interpret this as a sign that the practice of missing ministers and members of the Council of Ministers will change. So, with the invitation you received a draft agenda for today's session. At the College, meanwhile, and the College of Representatives of the House and College in the extended composition, we agreed to supplement today's agenda with the Proposal for a Decision on the termination of the mandate, Mr Hećo Vahid and Mušić Edin, because, simply, there were formal and legal circumstances for us to do so today, and also to include nine agreements, i.e. giving consent to the ratification of nine agreements. You've seen that we have, in a way, a negative report from the commission, our commission in charge. But in the meantime, the College and I, together, worked together, in coordination with ministers, agreed that we would have, that we would provide the presence of resolution ministers and the session of our commission will be held today at 12 o'clock so that there is no need to take off this agenda point, because we will have the assumption that we are also deciding on granting consent to this ratification. So, so much for the agenda. We will discuss the agenda later because, for the simple reason we have a previous question, let me put it this way, that is, one obligation that we made ourselves at the last session. It is, in fact, the conclusion, after the sixth session's continuation, that the draft conclusions on the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions for 2007 will be made today. So it is a statement on the proposed conclusions concerning the Bill on the Budget of BiH, the international commitments for 2007. I hope that, by following this conclusion, you have made and you have the conclusions, and if you can't use the sixth-session minutes where the service, so to speak, listed all these conclusions so that you also have that variant. I suggest we go. Mr Ivanković, I have failed to say that you have made the amendment, or supplementing your proposed conclusion, if that was your intention to say 2. I hope the MPs got this intervention, therefore, the previous conclusion Mr Ivanković made is changing with this which you received on the bench today. So, let's take the next row. We have a proposal for the conclusion of Azra Hadžiahmetović, MP Azra Hadžiahmetović. Is there a need to read? Obviously, you haven't reached any conclusions. So, we have a proposal, we have a proposal, well, so that I read a little bit, we have a proposal from Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović – a proposal for a conclusion, so under: 1. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes that before the current year, I would ask the members of the Council of Ministers to follow the session, Mr Kalabić. So, the BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to submit the Budget proposal to Parliament for next year before the current year. This is also a legal obligation. 2. That the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury should consider following the 2006 Budget Implementation Report the possibility of rebalancing the item relating to the implementation of the Programme for Returns of Refugees and Displaced Persons through the budget. The correction would refer to the specific purpose programme – the Return Fund, and the amount would be determined on the basis of the item transferred revenue from the previous year and respecting Amendment 5 adopted by the Finance and Budget Commission. So that's, that's, that's the proposal for Parliamentarian Azra Hadžiahmetović's conclusion. Can we make a statement in the package on both of these? _________? Individually, individually. I'm just asking. So we're going individually. Let's go to conclusion one. Is there any need to read it again? There isn't. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. I invite you to vote no matter how you vote because, obviously, that one number. So, with 30 votes for, without against and 3 abstentions, with enough entity majority of the number one conclusion, to formulate it, was adopted. We move on, we move to the conclusion of two MPs, Azra Hadžiahmetović. Vote now. With 22 votes in favour, 11 against and without the entity majority, I find this proposal has not been supported. We're going to get a match. Can we do it now? Here I am, practically, and that the College has not reached agreement. So now we go, we go to the second round of voting, we all vote, we all vote. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10111	We already have most, we know. Now it's just who's against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10112	Don't, well, so now those who are against are voting. Vote now. I find that we have 11 MPs from Republika Srpska who are two-thirds and I find that this conclusion by two Azra Hadžiahmetović has not been supported. Let's go to the next draft conclusion. Therefore, it is a proposal to conclude MP Vink Zorić, which reads: The BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to respect the Commission's amendment to finance and the budget of 26.03.2007 by 15.05.2007. Let me remind you, this is about the means to support the World Cup in the bottle. Right, Martina, am I okay? Azra, did you want anything? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10113	Well, here I am, I would suggest that we do not go with the Council of Ministers' obligation to apply the amendment, because it is difficult for the Council of Ministers to change, or possibly affect the change in the budget adopted by this Parliament. But in the direction of support, therefore, I propose this amendment to recommend to the Council of Ministers that, out of the funds decided by the Council of Ministers, an item on what it refers to.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10114	In the amount supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10115	So there are resources that the Council of Ministers can decide on. Reserve funds or some other way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10116	We've got a little problem, we don't have a promoter, Martina, we don't have a promoter. ( during Mrs Hadžiahmetović's discussion, chaired by Mr Belkić, having a conversation with Mr Martin and others) So, therefore, to conclude that this conclusion has a kind of modification, that the practical obligation becomes a recommendation to seek the possibility of the amendment, adopted on the commission in this direction, practically, being implemented by Council Decision 4 ministers in the means, is recommended, of course, from the means of which the Council of Ministers decides. So, if we understand each other enough, please, uh, prepare to vote. Wait a minute, wait a minute, please, just intervene in time. Here you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10118	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests. In fact, I'm afraid that if we go in this way with suggestions from the Council of Representatives to the Council of Ministers, we'll be in a position to have such requests from each session and that the Council of Ministers will not be able to meet. Niko one argues that different professional alliances and sports institutions address the Council of Ministers with a request to support the maintenance of any event, to see what amount of funds we can at all and, in fact, there is a good will of the Council of Ministers. I understand that there is a debate in the budget debate on Budget and that it should have been a budget item. If Parliament takes, therefore, I do not dispute that you are making the conclusion that Parliament thinks it should make, but, in fact, you will often be able to do so, and the Council of Ministers is seriously referring to every request for financial, financial request that comes, that the debate and these funds are not, in fact, unlimited. Because if you tell us that the financial amount required is respected, we will come very soon to say that, in two months, there are no more funds that the Council of Ministers is disposing of. That's why I think it would be better to make a recommendation that whoever asks for those funds should address the Council of Ministers, and I, here, undertake that we will seriously consider it and, in accordance with our options, treat it, according to that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10119	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. This is not about establishing a kind of practice, etc. This is only about reviving the Commission's views. Namely, you have not attended the budget debate and I must tell you that these conclusions, in some ways, are a one-time correction and a one-time correction of the Commission's views, etc. So we're going back to the formulated conclusion. I hope there's no need to explain it. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 31 votes for, 2 against, four abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that Mr. Vink Zorić's proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. Let's go to the next conclusion. It is the conclusion, the proposal for the conclusion of the Mr., that is, MP Zlatko Lagumdžija, which reads: The Parliamentary Assembly adopts 5 conclusions that are binding on the Council of Ministers of BiH and individual ministers within the given deadlines, after which they are expected to resign in order not to be removed due to a possible failure of obligations under the following conclusions. So you think about these conclusions that we, uh, probably spread, but primarily those that we're adopting today. So, Mr. Lagumdžija suggests it. Please prepare to vote. Here you go, but call me on time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10120	I'm sorry, but, uh, I really have to react. The Parliamentary Assembly adopts conclusions that are binding on the Council of Ministers. Well, I guess that's practice. What Parliament adopts should be binding, if not, then it should react. I am not in favour of adopting what is meant and I think that this would, uh, put ourselves in a position to decide when some of Parliament's conclusions are binding on the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10121	Thank you very much. Please prepare. Here you go, Mr. Križanović. Well, I wouldn't, I asked you not to open the debate. I've only seen this as one kind of intervention and good intentions to clarify certain things, but here. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10122	I don't think intervention is very welcome. Look, we're the first conclusion of a colleague now,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10123	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10124	Azre adopted which is also a matter of law, even. You see, we adopted a conclusion that obliges the Council of Ministers to deliver the draft budget for next year this year. It's a legal obligation, too, but we've affirmed it with this conclusion. So I don't think this observation should be, uh, crucial to the intensity of this conclusion. So, in this general conclusion, we are sealing the conclusions that are the basis for the adoption of the Budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10125	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. I ask you, however, to prepare for the vote. Vote now. 6 With 12 votes to, 15 against, 9 abstentions, this conclusion did not get the required majority. Let's go to the next one. It is a proposal for the conclusion of Milorad, MP Milorad Živković, the deputy chairman, who reads: The chairman, i.e. the presidents of the MPs' clubs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, are tasked with following the way of intervention funds for the recovery of the situation in Srebrenica from the budget reserve in co-operation with the Council of Ministers of BiH and representatives of the Srebrenica municipality. Please. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I don't think this conclusion makes any sense. I don't know what the audit is for if we're going to do their job. So if club presidents are going to control the spending of funds, then we don't need auditors. In this way, in fact, we would release some who need to respect the law, to respect it. And that's why I think it would be a good idea if the conclusion promoter gave up this conclusion since, indeed, to form a committee of club presidents to control the funds, the question is whether all clubs would also give their representatives to this committee. On the other hand, it may have been much better if the conclusion had been proposed, and we would have supported it then, if these funds had been allocated exclusively on the basis of the programme. Then we would actually have full control by the First Council of Ministers, then the auditor. But, of course, we're late with that conclusion so it stays here my suggestion that the motionor withdraws this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10127	I've seen this as your explanation for why you'll vote against it. Please prepare for the vote. Vote. Here, I, I really make a mistake when I make a precedent, then I go. Here you go, everybody's just.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10128	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So, as long as it doesn't come from the budget reserve, it's not the budget reserve funds. So it's in the text.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10129	Right, right. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10130	It's a budget reserve, but that's not what we decided.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10131	Reserved funds, it's done, it's made out of reserved funds. [[Common discussion]] Position of reserved funds. Of course, it's technical, it's technical, uh, things and it's certainly this intervention, but it wouldn't even be realised from the funds of the reserve because it's not the conclusion of that nature. It would be realized from this position as we have reached a conclusion. But here I am asking you to prepare for a statement on this conclusion. Vote now. With 28 votes in favour of, 5 against, 4 abstentions, I find enough entity majority to conclude that the proposal for Mr. Živković's conclusion was also adopted. We're going to the conclusions proposed by Mr. Halid Genjac. It's three conclusions. So conclusion one: The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the BiH Council to prepare for parliamentary procedure, as soon as possible, and no later than 45 days, to deliver a draft bill on salaries in BiH institutions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 35 votes to, without against and three abstentions, I find that the conclusion of one of Mr. Genjac's proposals has been adopted. We are going to conclude number two: the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives demands that the BiH Council of Ministers prepare and together with a report on the implementation of the 2006 Budget, to discuss the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, for all the commissions set up by the BiH Council of Ministers in the previous session, a report on the reasons for their establishment and costs for their work. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 35 votes in favour, without opposition, with 3 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, the conclusion of two Genjac MPs was also adopted. We are going to conclude the number of three Genjac gentlemen: 8 The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking for the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and together with a report on the execution of the Budget, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to discuss the delivery of the Plan for streamlining and reducing the cost of renting business premises for the work of institutions. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 35 votes for, without prejudice, 3 abstentions, I find enough entity majority to conclude that the proposal for a conclusion of 3 Mr. Genjac has also been adopted. And we have one more proposal for Mr. Jerka Ivanković's Lijanović. Therefore, there is no need to repeat, it is an innovator of the conclusion that you have received on the table which reads: It undertakes the Council of Ministers to consider, together with the House of Representatives' Commission, VAT and excise laws and to propose amendments to them by increasing the tax on luxury goods, taking care of the protection of domestic production and the collection of funds, from increasing the tax on luxury goods, to rebalance in the budget for next year for incentives in agricultural and food production. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 37 votes in favour of, 1 against, without abstention, enough entity majority, I conclude that Mr Ivanković's proposal for a conclusion has been adopted. So this is how we realized the obligations that we gave ourselves at the 6th session and we move on, we move on to the debate on the agenda proposal. The reminders only, compared to the call you received, we had two additions agreed on by the colleges. Therefore, it is the decision to suspend the mandates of MPs, Heći and Mušić and to include nine, nine ratification agreements, assuming that we will have a commission session in 12 hours when we will take a small break with the presence of authorised promoters. So I'm opening a debate on the agenda for today's 7th session. Here's Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10133	Dear chairman, honourable fellow MPs, esteemed guests, media representatives. In accordance with Article 65, point 1 is replaced by the following: I propose that the agenda of the 7th session of the House of Representatives be added to the next item of the agenda. So, I propose that the new agenda item bear the title: Consideration of an initiative to launch a public campaign against the exploitation of black workers and the establishment of a black list of employers who employ black workers. 9 In the shortest explanation, I would just like to say that working on black in the informal economy is one example or one of the examples of a drastic violation of the rights of workers with low wages, difficult working conditions and no protection at work, i.e. they have neither health care nor pension disability insurance. I therefore propose that we also consider this initiative today at a meeting of the House of Representatives and adopt one conclusion that we would commit the Council of Ministers of BiH to launch a public campaign in collaboration with entity governments against the exploitation of black workers, and to make within 6 months a black list of employers who employ black workers or operate in other illicit ways, or do not reconcile obligations to workers. Following the implementation of the information required in this conclusion, MPs at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives would also be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10134	Is, forgive me, Denise, if, then, this is a kind of initiative that involves certain activities, or is it simply a requirement for today's session of the agenda to include it as a part of the agenda, because we don't have materials, we're not prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10135	I suggest, therefore, today we put this point on the agenda. I have here and a proposal for a conclusion, so, which I propose to the House of Representatives to adopt, although I'm not making any problem if you think we're adopting today a conclusion that we would, for example, put on the agenda of the next House of Representatives if
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10136	I'd rather go to that variant. So, we have a proposal for a conclusion on the agenda, but here, with the willingness to do so at the next session, with appropriate preparation and procedures and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10137	Yes, and that conclusion can be made if we accept it and commit it to be, therefore, at the beginning of the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10138	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Snježana Rajilić, here you go. It'll only work for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10139	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee, i.e. the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, held its meeting yesterday to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act of BiH – proposed by Mr Milorad Živković, MP at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Since we had no opinion from the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, we were unable to declare yesterday at the session the principles of this law. Therefore, I would ask that today we put as a point of the agenda the granting of opportunities, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, for our commission to be prolonged, means that we get an additional deadline from, up to 30 days in which we could.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10140	That could do it to you, College. You should contact the College for an extension of the deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10141	And they told me I had to ask you, I apologize, I did how I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10142	It's not a problem, it's not a problem. You should contact the College in front of the Commission and we will extend the deadline, so there is no need today.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10143	Here's a good one. So that's how it's gonna work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10144	Thank you very much. Here you go. If there are no further discussions, then, I can conclude that the draft agenda that you have received with the invitation and these two additions, which I said at the beginning, we have, with the fact that we need to make a statement about the conclusion of MP Denis Bećirović, who proposes to place the agenda point at the next 8th session, to include, to include the agenda point, so, consider an initiative to launch a public campaign against the exploitation of workers on black and to determine the black list of employers who employ black workers. I hope we understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10145	Just a little intervention, if I may.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10146	You seem to have habits from Parliament yet. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10147	No, no, it's not a habit. I think Parliament's integrity should be preserved. We need to get out of the film of creating and looking for blacklists, I guess, lists of employers who don't respect the laws of this country. Blacklist, the word blacklist itself, and it's all black and black and black, and I think it should come out of that trap. If someone is looking for, then, to get a list of employers who don't respect the laws that regulate that area, although I think this will be, given the jurisdiction, a lot of stories, and a little bit of effect, and that's why I would suggest, at least the word blacklist, black to avoid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10148	Thank you very much, Mr. Špirić. Wait a minute, here's Mr. Živković's report. Is it a replica of what it is? There's no replica with the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10149	It's not a replica, it's an explanation. So, since we're going to make a statement about this conclusion, it's not a problem to formulate it, is it a list of employers who hire workers in the way it's not foreseen by law, but I would remind you that the term "black list of employers" is a term that is really used in BiH and neighbouring countries, so it's not a newspaper.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10150	Or maybe pink.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10151	And after all, it is a blacklist.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10152	Okay, okay, thank you very much. Milorad Živković. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10153	Dear Parliament Speaker, chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I did not want to discuss this knowing the Rules of Procedure that said no points of the agenda are being discussed, that is, not to mention the very essence of the agenda point. So, I have accepted that the issue of working on black in BiH puts this Parliament on the agenda on how it will be formulated, what we, what conclusions, or competences that are BiH, will do. It has nothing to do with the conduct of such a jurisdiction at the entity, cantonal and municipal level. We can talk about this after that when this item of the agenda is included here in Parliament. 12 So now we are only talking about Denis Bećirović's proposal, the MPs, about having such a single item of the agenda here in Parliament. What this Parliament will decide on this is a completely different story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10154	Thank you very much. Here, anyway, we got additional information and I don't see the need for further discussion. Please, you'll get a chance to save it for session eight when this point is included. Please prepare, please prepare for the vote on Denis Bećirović's proposal for the 8th session. Vote now. Well, of course I ran out when I did, so no problem. Please prepare, prepare for the vote. Vote now. So, with 32 votes for, 3 against, 1 abstention, a conclusion was accepted, a proposal for a conclusion on the inclusion of this agenda point at the next 8th session. So now, I'm left to establish the agenda of today's 7th session and beg your patience. I'll read it for the record. So, the agenda of the 7th session of the House of Representatives reads. May I have your attention and patience, if you need a break, we'll take a break. So: 1. Journal of the 6th Session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Names: (a) Secretary of the PSBiH House of Representatives, (b) Secretary of the SPBiH Joint Service, 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the proposal for a foreign exchange framework law in BiH following a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Basics of Transport on Roads to BiH – Proposer: The House of Peoples with the Commission's Report on Transport and Communications, 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Competition in BiH – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković (first reading), 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Industrial Property in BiH - Proposers: MPs Selim Bešlagić and Mirjana Malić (first reading), 8. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the request of the MP, Remzija Kadrić, to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of BiH under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure, 9. Commission Report from the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on a proposal for inclusion in the agenda "Information from the Council of Ministers on increasing the journals and other competences in BiH institutions (proposed by Parliamentarian Denis Bećirović), 13 10. Report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the 2005 revision: - BiH Defence Ministry, - BiH Ministry of Justice - the BiH Ministry of Security, - the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, - the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, - the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, - the Commission for Property Requests of Displaced Persons and Refugees, - the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments of BiH, - the BiH Presidency, - the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, - the BiH Joint Affairs Office, - the Central Election Commission of BiH, - the BiH Court of Justice, - the BiH Prosecutor's Office for indirect taxation, - the Office for Veterinary of BiH, - the Constitutional Court of BiH, - the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, - the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions budget, namely the final account for 2005, 11. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2006, 12. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2006, 13. Proposal for a decision laying down the termination of the term of office of MP in the House of Representatives, Vahid Heći and Edin Mušić, for the purpose of resigning for the appointment of second duty, 14. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on police co-operation, (b) Agreement on Social Insurance between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia, (c) Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement on International Registration of Industrial Design of 02 July 1999, (e) Agreement between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro on the simplified process of human and slave traffic at the border crossings of the Uvac-Ustibar-Vagan, (e) Agreement establishing border crossings between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro, (f) Agreement BiH and Serbia-Montenegro on Border Traffic, (g) Agreement on Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, (h) Agreement on the co-operation of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Italy in the fight against organised crime, (i) Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on Security. 14 So here we are finally able to go to work on this agenda. Let's go, then, to point one. Ad. 1. Record from the 6th session of the House of Representatives Any objections to the record, any intervention on the record? If there is no, please prepare to vote on the minutes. Vote now. With 34 votes in favour, without prejudice, with one abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have adopted the minutes from the last 6th session of the House of Representatives. Moving to point two. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10157	Mr. Chairman, I really appreciate what you said, but I think this is an opportunity, before we start with new questions, and since this is a rare situation when we have a prime minister here, whether it is ministers and deputies, yes, we do see here in the House of Representatives whether we should change the Rules of Procedure of the House so that we can lift this chapter that concerns parliamentary issues or make this story serious. I believe that no parliament in BiH, both entity and cantonal and municipal are so unseriously related to this part as is the case for these seven sessions as the Council of Ministers and these ministers and deputy ministers refer to Parliament. Unfortunately, they act as if they chose MPs from the Council of Ministers rather than vice versa. I am indeed proposing one conclusion here, if it is possible to make this story serious and that both ministers and deputy ministers respect and respect the position of Parliament and MPs in Parliament. What's worth asking us here now is the eighth, ninth question when there are 90% of MPs who haven't received an answer to any questions. I really cannot understand that there could be at least one parliamentary question not to answer it. I think it's an inadmissible discredition of the entire Parliament. And I fully support this, Mr. Belkić, which you were just talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10158	I assure you that the College is working to resolve this issue and this is not a new matter in this House. You weren't in the last session. This is what we have debated and debated and sought solutions and I assure you that the College will resolve it. And please, yes, and it's going to be better, please, that, uh, we're going, so, understanding your intervention. I ask the MPs who received the answers, so this is about Mr Križanović and Mr Slavko Jovičić, do they need to comment, satisfied? Thank you. I understand that MPs Križanović and Jovičić are satisfied with the answers. I am opening the possibility of asking new parliamentary questions. Just please, therefore, Zorić, Bahtić, Novaković, Kadrić, Dolić, Jovičić, Nanić, Bećirović, Rajilić, Živković. Is there more, please? Don't change your mind, let's make one order right now. Here's my final application for MPs' questions. Let's take it in a row, Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10159	I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues, and I welcome the President and the Ministers and Deputys to the Council of Ministers. I have one question, but before that, you're the chairman said we got an answer to the initiative. You mentioned to the clubs that it went away today, I don't know, here, I would ask you, after my question, what about that initiative to strengthen, or balance a little national, not national, but sexual structure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10160	Structure, I failed to say that we sent club presidents with a recommendation to consider the possibility of your initiative being implemented.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10161	Okay, it's about two clubs that I can. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10162	Well, here I am talking today at the Party for BiH Club, etc., it's done, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10163	Okay, thanks. My question is as follows, of course, to the Council of Ministers, do the Council of Ministers have the capacity and have the conditions for the suspension of excise duties, i.e., excise duty? I'll briefly read the explanation I wrote with that question. I've been asking that question twice in the last meeting of this house and I've received a response from the Council of Ministers – if we did so, then instead of lifting into the tanks, it would be poured on the vine oil. I interpreted it that the Council of Ministers couldn't control or the institutions that I couldn't control the situation and I accepted it as an answer then. However, now 4 years after customers paid for the heating oil unnecessaryly, it seems, the excise duty is simply because it has no capacity to prevent abuse. I think it's time for excise duties to be lifted and introduced, to introduce more excise duties on luxury goods. I believe that heating is a social category and that it is necessary to reduce the price of energy from all, and therefore, a lot of oil, and to introduce it, here is the conclusion today, to introduce more excise duties, i.e. excise duties on luxury goods.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10164	Thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Rifat Dolić. I'd like to ask you a few questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10165	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. I have two parliamentary questions today. The first question is the minister of human rights and refugees at the BiH Council of Ministers. Given that, from time to time, and after more than 11 years of the end of the war in BiH, we have been able to listen or watch, through media, earthquake stories and scenes about living conditions and the hopelessness of BiH's collective refugee settlements, I ask the question: How many collective refugee settlements are in BiH today, where they are, how many refugees are in them, and what are you planning to do in the future to find a more dignified solution for these people? The second question is the issue of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers: What are you planning to do to address the issue of protests by farmers and tent settlements outside the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building that have been warning problems in agriculture for nearly 600 days and are failing to persuade us to take more of this problem and to find a common solution? A brief explanation. For almost 600 days, therefore, MPs of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, ministers and the country's most responsible officials, entering this building, have been passing by people and tents who are trying to draw attention to problems in agriculture which, whether I want to or not, are an area of special statistical importance for this country. No matter how much we have given political 17 manipulations on this issue, I believe that we all agree that these people with their questions are right, that the problems objectively exist and that their resolution is of the statistical importance for BiH's progress and development. The tents outside the Parliamentary Assembly and the farmers protest have, unfortunately, become part of the Sarajevo and BiH postcard and today you cannot find any more serious web presentations from Sarajevo and BiH without these pictures of tents and messages in it. These scenes are not a disgrace to farmers because they are not ashamed to protest and point to problems, it is a shame to ignore these people for so long and their demands. Although the degree of my political influence on resolving this issue in this House is 1/42, as an MP, I feel uncomfortable and ashamed to walk past these tents and people because of the personal belief that these people are right and their demands are justified. Of course, it does not occur to me to support some initiatives for the violent removal of these tents, and that is why I am left to appeal to the Council of Ministers for priority access to the talks and for finding solutions and questions for these justified demands of farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10166	Mr. Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10167	Thank you. I ask a question to the Council of Ministers which reads: What laws, regulations and rules, which were in force on BiH territory at the moment the dejtonski ustav came into force, continue to apply as provided for in Article 2. Annex 2. The Dayton Agreement? And it says, when it comes to the continuity of the legal rules, it literally states: "All laws, regulations, judicial procedures that are in force on BiH territory, at the moment the Constitution came into force, will remain in force to the extent that they are not contrary to the Constitution until otherwise determined by the competent authority, the competent authority of the BiH authorities." So, the list of regulations that were valid and the list, therefore, of those same regulations that continue to, uh, apply on BiH territory, this one I want answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10168	Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10169	I have two questions, Mr. Chairman. The first question is, at one of the meetings of the House of Representatives in the previous meeting, a decision was adopted on the establishment of a commission to investigate the victims of Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak and others in Sarajevo. The decision defined the commission's obligation to periodically report to the BiH Paraliamentary Assembly. The question I refer to the Council of Ministers and Commission: Why so far has the report not been delivered, and given that the reasons for the dysfunction have been in the media, I ask for a report on the reasons for the failure of this commission. 18 Second question. At its meeting on 11 March 2007, the BiH presidency reached two conclusions defining an initiative to amend all legal acts that put individual citizens of BiH in an unequal position compared to Article 17. The Double Citizenship Act. My question was addressed to the chairman of the BiH presidency. Does the conclusions mean changes in the BiH Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10170	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10171	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Although these answers are not coming, I will keep asking parliamentary questions until I get answers. So, my question to the ministers, Safet Halilović and Sven Alkalaj, is that ten or fifteen days ago, there was a delegation of the Congress of the Bosniak Diaspora from North America. What I could learn from the media, two ministers spoke with this delegation. Given that it's known to bh. The emigrant diaspora is not united and, in my knowledge, this delegation was only made up of emigrants from the Bosniak people, because I received a number of foreign issues from Srbin who are neither members of this delegation nor when they heard of this delegation of the diaspora. I also learned from the media that this delegation requested the removal of entities in BiH, which is, of course, against the constitution. I ask that the Ministers in writing answer me who made up this delegation, by course, national structure, and did they receive them for a conversation as Ministers of the Council of Ministers or High Representatives of the Party for BiH? I hope the ministers will respond to what the demands were for this delegation, since the media announced that they were looking for constitutional transmutation, a single BiH without entities. Of course, I don't mind lobbying in the world whatever they want, but when they appear on BiH territory and when they talk to the officials of this country, then I need to know who the delegation is, what their demands are and what they got as a promise from the people who talked to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10172	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. Mr. Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10173	I thank the chairman. I'm also joining my colleagues. And I've asked six MPs questions. I've never received a single answer before. Two sessions I didn't, then, set up on purpose anything to see if I'd win, I didn't win again. I'm gonna set one up today. I think my SDP colleagues will back me up. 19 Question for the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Marinko Jurčević. Since part of the so-called part of the so-called "media" has been published in the media. "Malkic's Law" according to which one MP could privatise the capital of a company only in the value of a three-year net salary on which additional contributions were paid, for the purchase of internal shares, while it was announced that Mr Hilmo Selimović, the owner of the Sarajevo brewery, had thus become owner of a Sarajevo brewery of more than 80% for which he was to have a net salary of 294,44 KM. So, malten, 300,000 a month, then there's KM, plus contributions. I ask the question: What has the State Prosecutor's Office taken on the principle of official duty to examine how, without privatisation and one mark paid to the state, no tender, no more bidders, no transparency, the state has been seized by the Sarajevo brewery nearly 500 million KM? I'm saying this for the reason that when I was exposé of the chairman, I said that there were kidnappers in Bihac, Bihaćka brewery, too, I'm saying the same thing, because these brewers are now serving as a league player(?) Support only to the SDP, so they took state property and when the campaign, huge funds, huge profits, I think counterpart Bećirović of the SDP will support me. Since a part of them are all involved and even the Federal Audit Office has been abolished, it is not possible to reach any audit report. I ask the chief state prosecutor: Will one of the biggest robberies of state property and capital in BiH be prosecuted when and what will he do? I guarantee, 100 million marks from the brewery went, the buyer was coming to our government in... offering 25 million marks for the Bihaćka brewery. In particular, this issue is so much more major that, according to media reports, the whole operation contains crimes that do not go out of date, such as co-operation with a war criminal in taking stock, or action, which was done with the help of war crimes indictee Momčilo Mandić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10174	Thank you very much. Mr. Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10175	Thank you, Mr. President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask a parliamentary question today and ask the Council of Ministers for information on the same. So, the Federation's Parliament approved the Federation's credit responsibility to finance projects, projects in the area of corporate privatisation, so-called. A PTAK project. One of the main reasons for accepting this 19m-dollar loan was that the government explained that the funds were needed to speed up the privatisation process, especially the privatisation of companies on the list, including Agrommerc. Since it is obvious that the privatisation process is not accelerated, but even slowed down, I am asked to be provided with information on how much of that loan was spent, in which the funds were spent, which the companies were selected for so-called. consulting services and what effects on privatisation had the application of this project or loan? 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10176	Thank you, Mr. Nanić. Mr. Bećirović, Denise.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10177	I have two parliamentary questions. First question. What are the concrete effects of the Agency's work on foreign investment promotion over the last 4 years? I ask that question to the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And another question. What exactly have you done in the current part of the mandate with the aim of passing the Law on Sports in BiH, and what are you planning to do in the next period on this issue? The question is addressed to the Minister of Civil Affairs. And within this second item of the agenda, the Parliamentary Affairs and Answers, and on the basis of the discussions that I see stemming from most MPs today, I propose that, as the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, we enter into the conclusion that by the next session, we get a list of all asked parliamentary questions that we have not received answers to so far. Right, so who asked the question, what's the content, who's asked the parliamentary question?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10178	You don't need a conclusion, we'll organize it and you'll get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10179	Oh, great.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As you know, I come from the Municipality of Novi Grad, which borders the Municipality of Dvor in the Republic of Croatia and we occasionally have problems with the border or with certain laws that the Republic of Croatia or the Assembly of the Municipality of the Court makes as its conclusions, decisions, of course, which we do not have the right to influence here in BiH. Recently, that is, last month, the Assembly of the Municipality of Dvor adopted the Regulatory Plan, of course what they are entitled to. However, they did make one precedent, they made the decision to place in Trbovska a landfill of radioactive medium and low radiation waste. Given that Trbovska Gora is about 20 and less kilometers away from Novi Grad Municipality, and since there are laws, this, in BiH, which must be followed, means that all countries in the environment, how far away from the state border can such waste be put away? I would ask the Council of Ministers here, what can or will be done by the Council of 21 ministers on foreign political activity, in order to warn in time the disposal of radioactive waste in Trbovska Gora, the Court of Justice of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10182	Thank you. According to my records, we only have Mr. Živković, if I skipped someone, please report to me, if not, therefore, we conclude, and Mr. Živković has more questions and that is how we end this agenda. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10183	I thank the chairman. Here's a list of questions that were asked to Mr. Sven Alkalaj, and I'm going to humbly ask my question. In a conversation with Iran's ambassador to BiH, according to media reports, BiH believes that Iran has the right to develop nuclear technology for peaceful purposes. My question: Did you agree with the BiH Presidency, does the Foreign Ministry have any information that any member of the European Union or NATO alliance has expressed the same or similar position and do you have information on the official position of Israel on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10184	Thank you very much. So this way we're done with point 2, we're going to go to point 3. Of course, I will take the right to ask MPs, understanding the full interventions we have had towards those to whom we have sent questions, etc., but that our questions in some way be clear without too much explanation and that we are asking one question at a time. Let's refrain from asking one question at a session, because we're just going to make, uh, asphyxiation. Here's a while, to update what they owe us so we can, uh, catch some dynamics. Because some answers won't make sense if we get them after three months. So we're moving on. Ad. 3. It is about the appointment, the proposal to appoint the secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. A proposal from the College you got. So, for the secretary of the House of Representatives, the College proposed to Mrs. Branka Todorović, Mr. Aljoša Čampara was proposed to the secretary of the Joint Service. Let me remind you, therefore, the secretary of this house is appointed House of Representatives, and the secretary of the Joint Service of both homes. 22 So today we do our part, our part of our obligation and our right. The bios for these two candidates you got. Any questions? Is there a need for discussion? If not, I suggest we approach the plea. So, first, we declare ourselves on the proposal for a candidate for the secretary of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, so when it comes to Mrs Branka Todorović being appointed secretary of the BiH House of Representatives. Vote now. With 37 votes in favour, no against and no abstentions. Mrs Branka Todorović was elected secretary of Parliament's House of Representatives. I congratulate her on your behalf. Your attitude to the vote shows really, uh, that we appreciate Mrs. Branka's work, and I want her to continue to work as successfully as she has done so far. We move on to a statement on the proposal to appoint Aljoša Čampara as secretary of the Joint Service, which they have, of course, both of them. Vote now. So, with 37 votes for, no offense, no abstentions. I find that the House of Representatives has given, accepted the proposal to appoint Aljoša Čampara as Secretary of the Joint Services. Congratulations, of course, and to Mr. Aljoša and I wish him successful work. This is how we ended the third session today. Moving to point four. Ad. 4. Therefore, it is the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for the discussion of the proposal for a Law on the framework of foreign exchange operations in BiH, following a shortened procedure in accordance with Article 126.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10187	I must say that we are against this shortened procedure, that we believe this should go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10188	That's what you're going to show, of course, that's what you're going to say, uh, by voting. So, please prepare for the vote. 23 Vote now. We're voting on procedure. So, with 27 votes to, 7 against and 3 abstentioned with a sufficient entity majority. I konstatirati that the Council of Ministers' request, that the Foreign Affairs Act in BiH be considered under a reduced procedure in accordance with Article 126. We're going to point five. Ad. 5. It is about the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10189	Something about my technique is wrong, I pressed against it, and there's, there's nothing registered and it's not the first time that's happened.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10190	I'm very sorry, but Mr. Dokić, I've already moved on to the next point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10191	I know, but, look, I've seen, it happens here a lot.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10192	I'm asking a real technique that, I pray technique don't, technique to see what it's all about, here's what we can do and whatever you want. Well, there's no demands. Please, don't, uh, suggest me what I'm gonna do. So we're going to point 5, I'm going to do the next point. Why didn't you intervene right away? So please, let me work. We've moved on to the next point, it's time to intervene. Don't bring me back from half a session to the point we finished and absorbed. I've moved on to point five. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10193	Mr. Chairman. Given the fact that the MP warned that he had cast a vote that he did not.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10194	The MP warned when I moved to the next item of the agenda. He had room to warn all the time. Because he said he was being followed all the time. So he hasn't intervened in a timely manner. I have no intention of returning. Really, I have no intention of returning because I just crossed that point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10195	I don't know exactly, depending on what principles you're using, so far you're a lot of people.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10196	Well, I'm using principles, here's Mr. Kalabić, I'll do it, but I know exactly what this is all about and don't put me in this situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10197	You've often repeated your vote for a lot.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10198	It's not true, it's not true, Mr. Kalabić, don't insinuate, it's not true. And let me work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10199	I beg you, I beg you, repeat the vote. ________(?) (Technics have failed)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10200	Please, please, at the request of SNSD MEPs, I will repeat the vote, but you, excellently, excellently, are welcome, Mr Džaferović. So, Mr. Dokić, why didn't you intervene?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10201	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10202	Well, of course, please refrain, this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10203	We carried out the voting procedure on this agenda point and within a reasonable period, before you moved to the point, the new agenda item, there was no objection in the way of voting. Afterwards, a colleague, Mr Dokić, reported that his vote, although voting against, was not recorded on the monitor. I suggest that Mr Dokić's position be respected and that his vote against votes be attributed against, here on the monitor, and that in this way you conclude this point of the agenda, and not that this is why the real maneuver is trying to act again after the results of the vote have been seen, because here the matter is completely obvious, therefore, and I suggest that you do so. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10204	What fate is all about? Is this law going to go 15 days before or after? Please remind me of what we're discussing. Here you go, Mr. Živković. So, fateful for this country, which we're conflicting about, Mr. Kalabić, what we're fighting about.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10205	Dear Chairman, please let us calm the atmosphere for a simple reason to recall the situation in the past term. Mr. Džaferović was then the speaker of parliament. At the request of the MPs, not only did we vote again on the point that was over, but the point that was four points after that, and it was voted at the end of the agenda. So, the question here, it's not settled in business, when can it be asked to repeat the vote? Whether it's right after the vote, whether it's after an hour or maybe one day to remember whether to re-vote. Therefore, the request can be justified if anyone, until we resolve business differently, requests that the vote be repeated. However, since you have said this fact that is correct about this law and this requirement, it is unnecessary to create a major problem. If it takes most of the Republika Srpska, here's what I'm going to vote for, to go into procedure because I don't think these 15 days will solve anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10206	Of course, here you go, Mr. Novaković. I'm asking you to refrain from wasting any time on this. Exactly what Mr. Džaferović said, it is true what Mr. Živković said
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10207	Since the debate is open, I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the SDS Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10208	Don't ask for a break now. Please, Mr. Novakovic, Mr. Novaković, we'll have a break at 12:00.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10209	You've opened the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10210	No problem, I'll make it ten today, you won't leave until 11:00. Thank you very much, thank you very much. Take a break, take a break. Please, we'll have a break at 12:00, sit down, where you're in a hurry right now, so you haven't been working for an hour, what's wrong with you people?- I'm sorry. 26 [[Common discussion]] A half-hour break. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10213	Yes, we regret that this law does not go according to article 105 today, but there is no Council of Ministers that suggested it so that we remain in this procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10214	Thank you very much. I had a conversation with Mr. Dokić at the break. Mr. Dokić agrees that his vote is attributed to the results of the vote as a vote against. Mr. Kalabić, do you have any need for us to repeat the vote? Thank you. This is how we got out of this situation. I am obliged, of course, to respect the fact that the Rules of Procedure does not specify what Mr. Živković was talking about, to try to work in the next way, to tend to it. So, following the announcement of votes on the monitor, before moving to the next item of the agenda, it is time for interventions, remarks and requests, to seek possible re-voting. So from the moment you see on the monitor that your voice is eventually not registered then, until the beginning of the next item of the agenda, it intervenes. And I ask you to respect that. So we're moving on, here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10215	...if my colleague Dokić didn't get mad, but I suggest he use the technique a little more often, so she doesn't screw up. She may have made an appointment because she's not often in use.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10216	Thank you very much. So, we move to point five, Ad.5 of the proposal for a law on amending and supplementing the Law on Road Safety – Proposer: Home of the People, with the Report of the Commission on Transport and Communications Therefore, the proposal for this law to the People's House delivered to this home on 28 July 2006 with a request to consider and adopt an emergency procedure under Article 105. At the 84th session of the previous assembly of the House of Emergency Requests, he was not adopted and went into the regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the Bill's proposal on 27 February 2007. The Commission is responsible for transport and communication, the Commission was considering the draft law yesterday. I hope you've all received the report, you've seen, the Commission has not accepted the bill. So we have a negative report from the Commission on which we are now pleading. I remind you, if the report is adopted, practically, the law has fallen. So, here, I'm opening a debate on the report, of course. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10218	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues. Of course, we have received a report from a competent commission that is negative and which mainly explains that the proposed bill has been rejected in order or for the reason that the Red Cross, or cross, uniformly on the whole territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, train candidates for motor vehicle drivers. The purpose of this bill, which was adopted at the House of Peoples, was to provide one number of humanitarian organisations and related organisations such as the Red Cross, or the Red Cross or the Red Crescent, with the possibility to participate equally in ensuring correct correction to provide training services for first aid, since in this way many, large numbers of humanitarian organisations were the source of additional income and, besides, it was a practice in BiH so far. I think that disabling competition and disabling all other players from the game and leaving only the Red Cross, that is, the cross in the game, and that is, by explaining that oneness is needed, is based on basic principles and several laws that we have adopted, such as the Competition Act, etc. And I don't think that should be a reason to eliminate all other actors. Order, unity in this area can be achieved in such a way that authorisation procedures for which, otherwise, the authorised minister is more stringent, repair, correct or apply existing ones who, I think, are sufficiently set up. In this way, with proper procedures, with the right criteria, it would be given to all those who meet the conditions and who are interested in providing services and would allow competition on the market for these services and would allow for one number of humanitarian organisations to receive these additional incomes and additional revenues that are very significant to them. I think, for these reasons, that the Commission report should be rejected, I will at least vote against the report and give the Commission new guidelines to draft the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10219	Thank you, Mr. Genjac. Is there any further? Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10220	Here, I will remind the MPs of the House of Representatives that in the previous assembly, the House of Representatives also considered the bill.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10221	May I have your attention, please? Azra, Šefik, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10222	Therefore, that the House of Representatives considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Safety Act in the sense proposed and rejected such a proposal for a law. The explanation that is and then pointed out, I will repeat it, it is about humanitarian organizations. A very broad notion of humanitarian organisation, a caritative organisation, which this Parliament has neither control over the number nor the way they work, and which should be regulated in some way, perhaps by one state-level framework law, which would eventually open up the possibility that some of these humanitarian organisations would, among other things, be given the authority of this species. I respect the reasons that my colleague Genjac has mentioned here, which are a little bit more about funding, i.e. collecting the revenues of humanitarian organisations that they would possibly spend on humanitarian purposes, but I don't think this should apply to what this is about. In addition to reminding you in all countries, and in the environment, and what is common practice that only the Red Cross, i.e. the Cross, has training powers, therefore, is training candidates to pass a driving test to provide first aid. I must mention that we, unfortunately, have no idea if all humanitarian organisations have the capacity for adequate training that this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10223	Thank you very much. Mr. Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10224	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Transport and Communications Commission, I would just like to give an additional explanation. Azra has already helped me in this context, this law that passed at the House of Peoples is indeed totally unacceptable because it covered, in practice, the possibility that any humanitarian organization might be dealing with this issue. And she's really incompetent or she has conditions and there's no way to talk about competition at all. 29 We have specifically discussed the question, as is called, of the Red Crescent in this context, and we have one conclusion that did not go towards Parliament, which will go towards the organization of the Red Crescent, to see with the Red Cross, or the cross around the possibility that even through such a law they might be involved in the work, given the approximately same part of the doing of the business of one and the other organisations, and if so not possible, then possibly through the amendment procedure only to the Red Crescent to do this work. So, this law, as adopted by the House of Peoples, is the context of what practically would allow all humanitarian organisations to deal with this work, is completely unacceptable and would introduce a greater mess in this area than it exists right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10225	Thank you, Mr. Dokić. Are there any more reported? Here you are, Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10226	We can't be formalists here, so just let the Red Cross or the Cross do the training, or, I'd say, take this part in front of them that relates to providing first aid. Do you know that driver's exams are in place in every municipality? The question is how many Red Crosses or the Red Cross are trained and how can they question someone when there are no such departments at all? And we've brought it down to one formality just so we have something. And if we have what we're looking for, that's the question. So I'm asking a question that someone really is taking it and making sure they're qualified to do what they're doing. We can't go on a variant just because it would be their additional source of income. That's the least important. The question is, do they provide the right quality of services and what we're looking for? For if only they will be brought down to obtain confirmation, behold, I know for a fact: no one has ever fallen to the position of this first aid. ________(?) They teach people well. Everybody knows. Is that possible? That's not possible. So, we can't translate this into one formality so that the House can adopt, and then bring it back to us or that it's waiting for us to adopt. So this really needs to be reconsidered and seen what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10228	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovičić. Here's Mr. Živković. Replica, a little bit of Milorade, Mr. Genjac's replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10229	Allow me, very briefly. So, I would never advocate, Mr. Dokić, that anyone gets the right to train first aid, nor is it the purpose of this law to allow any, and anyone to allow first aid training. The Law's intervention is to allow a large number of organisations to do so only when the minister in charge approves them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10230	Thank you very much. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10231	I thank the chairman, personally I think that these amendments would allow a really large number of humanitarian organisations to, on some temporary basis, hire doctors or even to have doctors open such same humanitarian organisations, let's say, controlled chaos in Bosnia and Herzegovina under the firm to be about allowing competition. I came out here to say one other thing. Namely, the Transport Safety Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina has recently started to apply, and we have recently learned that the rules that were recently concluded are 22 or 24, it has finally begun to be noticed and it is obvious that there are problems in the implementation of this law as well as the MPs have spoken, and I, as Parliament, might suggest that we open up a public debate on the implementation of the Transport Act and that, based on observed irregularities or difficulties in work on the ground, propose certain amendments and additions, in whole, to this law so that MPs do not react in this way in part. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10232	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Are there any more reported? So, I am concluding the debate and reminding you again, by procedure, by the Rules of Procedure, we are pleading on the Commission's report. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. With 28 votes in favour, 9 against and one abstentioned, enough entity majority, I find that the Commission's report has been accepted and thus the Law has not received support. We're going to point six. Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on competition between Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Ambassador Milorad Živković (first reading) So, the bill was submitted by Mr. Živković on 9 March 2007. It's being considered in regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered a positive opinion on compliance with the Constitution on 14 March. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is responsible and the Commission held a session yesterday to discuss the proposal for this law in the first phase. The opinion of the committee in charge of these principles, of the first, in the first reading, therefore, of the principles you have received. The Commission supported the principles. So we're in the first reading. If there's no discussion we should approach the vote. Are there any reports of discussion? Please vote now. We're voting on first reading. So, with 37 votes in favour, without, without abstention, I find, with a sufficient entity majority, that the draft law amending the Law on Competition of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MEP Milorad Živić received support under point 6. So, adopted in the first reading. Moving to point seven. Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Industrial Property in Bosnia and Herzegovina - are proposed : MPs Selim Bešlagić, Mirjana Malić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10236	I thank the chairman, I really expected that agreement would be reached on this issue and that it would be expected that this law would be accepted to be discussed for several reasons. First of all, we are on this issue and have received a certain positive response from the Council of Ministers, this initiative is supported, the initiative is also supported by the BiH presidency. So we are, indeed, in one situation when, when given an opportunity to resolve this issue in a shortened procedure. It would be really correct for these people, these citizens of ours, who are scattered all over the world, to somehow put them in the same equal position. Therefore, I expect that we will find sufficient reason, enough agreement in the ordinary procedure to accept this proposal of this law and thus meet the requirements of our citizens who are scattered around the world, to bring them into an equal position both of our citizens in Serbia and in America, Australia, Canada and so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10237	Thank you, Mr. Kadrić. Here I am again making a precedent, of course, I have an account. Here's Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10238	Here, it is common practice that the College's decision is not followed by the debate, however, as Mr Kadrić said here things concerning the direct decision of the College, I want to say that changing the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in my opinion, cannot be done in a shortened procedure. Your law in a particular section concerns the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and by that, I could not agree on this decision. Therefore, it is my opinion that the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina cannot be changed by a shortened procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10239	Thank you, Mr. Živković. We're back to business. So, we're all voting now, and the deciding votes are against. So, we all vote, and the deciding votes are against. Vote now. 33 With 22 votes to, against 11, 3 abstentions we have a situation that the procedure is not accepted, definitely not accepted. The law goes into regular procedure. Let's go to point nine. Ad. Nine. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on a proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the "Information of the Council of Ministers on increasing the journals and other competences in BiH institutions" (proposer: MEP Denis Bećirović) You got the report. No consent has been reached either. We vote, no more calls, no more safe calls. We all vote. No, no, no more reporting to anyone today, from this moment on, no one. No, not from this moment on, there's no one here. So we all vote. The votes against are respected. Vote now. I'm sorry it wasn't on the BiH Party MP, it would be better, of course, Mr. Križanović, I agree. I'm taking it on my cheek, but we have to break this up. With 20 votes for, 13 against, 4 abstentions, respecting the votes against, the proposal has not passed. We're going to point ten. There's no need for a break, we can work, and you hold a session for a while and come back. We've got enough MPs. At least that's what I think. You'll finish it in 15 minutes, I believe. I hope you agree with me. We will now have a debate – the audit reports are on the agenda, etc. Sure. So we're going to point ten, just please hurry, we're going to point ten. Ad. Ten. Reports from the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2005: - The BiH Ministry of Defence, - the BiH Ministry of Justice, - the BiH Ministry of Security, - the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, - the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, - the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, - the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, - the Commission for Property Requests of Displaced Persons and Refugees, 34 - the Commission for the Protection of National Monuments, - the BiH Law Department, - the BiH Presidency, - the Regulatory Agency for Communications, - the Office for Joint Affairs of BiH Institutions, - the Central Election Commission of BiH, - the Court of BiH, - the Prosecutor's Office for indirect taxation of BiH, - the Office for Veterinary of BiH, - the Constitutional Court of BiH, - the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, - the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH institutions
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10242	I will only present before the Commission and propose to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10243	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10244	to adopt this report on the financial business audit of the BiH institutions for 2005, with a proposal to conclude the recommendations that we have written here, and we have explained this finely here, last time, because of the budget, we are doing so in haste, minority....that today little, however, is opening the debate because the report of the audit that has been done well and has correct lack of respect for financial discipline, especially in public procurement, in the planning of budgets, among individual institutions, ministries, where 100% employment and in the budget is not being filled out, and these funds are paid out through various commissions. And we've proposed here to do an emergency wage law. Today, a fellow Genjac suggested it. I think that this law will remove many shortcomings which the audit has established and those ministries that are not from, some agency directors, they justify that the ministries have not done the systematization of jobs, to end it too. Thank you so much. So, I suggest you adopt the review report with. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10245	Thank you, Mr. Bahtić. Any further reports? Here we go in a row, Mr. Zorić and Mr. Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10246	I don't know if there's, uh, a reviewer here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10247	The audit office, unfortunately, I have to find out that I don't see it. They're invited, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10248	Yeah. I have read this report but I will remain only similar to having a conclusion on the recommendations of the Committee of the House of Representatives, and this is about the Review Report for, right for, the Parliamentary Assembly. It is then said to accept the review's opinion on the financial business of the BiH Parliament for 2005 which found that the institution had done a positive job. I think a little of this, doing business positively,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10249	Business plan, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10250	The second recommendation is to use all capacities to continue to operate positively. I don't think we need these findings. And on the other hand, I'm surprised we have all kinds of business shortages. The audits are always on, on, on, on the Law of Payments, on payouts of various kinds, and I also have an observation that we MPs have the right to stay in Sarajevo, after a tender and two of the most favourable offers have been selected. It is not clear to me at all, and I am sorry to say that the audit and our competent committee have not put in any accent. If a tender is called, then it's inconceivable for me to open the tender in two, then it could've already been ten, so it's going to pick the ten most favourable, uh, overnight bidders. And I would like that, in a way, this is for 2005, of course, and I don't mind, but to suggest that, yes, those who discuss competitions, it seems to me, the College of Secretaries or whoever it is, that you can't choose two of the most favoured, can one or then whoever logs into the given frameworks then can either do it there or it's entityic, let it be here, then, says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10251	Thank you very much, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Dolić. Mr. Jašarević also signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10252	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests. In the beginning, I must express my dissatisfaction with the fact that tax bonds are today denied to be firsthand informed how budget beneficiaries spent their funds in 2005. I have personally studied the materials and the findings of the Office for the Auditing of BiH Institutions and Auditors and if I have so far had a dose of reserves according to the objectivity of the evaluations by which BiH is at the world top at the gray economy, crime and corruption, after studying the reports and the findings of the auditors I no longer have those reserves, however, I think we are better ranked than we deserve. Anyone who reads this report and who can measure the findings of the auditors is clear why we are at the world's top in grey economy, crime and corruption. It is clear why we are achieving record unemployment rates, it is clear why we are being bypassed by foreign investors and why the level of investment per capita is the lowest in Europe, etc. I must admit that I am extremely depressed by the fact that out of 41 budget users, after the revision of all 13 have received a positive opinion, with my own personal opinion that even for these grades, auditors have applied international audit standards slightly. Even more depressed acts, the negatives that result from the findings and the evaluation of auditors are shown, in part for all budget users, and most of them for more than 2/3 of the budget users with the reserve shown in their opinion. Any responsible man in this country should be concerned about the assessment and findings of the auditors from the 2005 review of BiH's institutions. And by these estimates, let me remind you, there are no harmonised criteria for budget planning for all budget users so that the budget is planned from the eye, and every rational behavior of the budget user is in some way a punishment for the same user. There are no harmonised binding rules laying down the form and content of the report on budget implementation for all budget users. There are no harmonised and binding internal audit regulations, budget spending controls, so that it is almost unknown for all budget users. In BiH institutions, budget spending and irregular changes in the structure of expenditure are almost normal and is happening without the agreement of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury without speaking without a decision of the Parliamentary Assembly. The BiH institutions are not subject to a prescribed list of financial assets without talking about a legal list of other assets, which is a basic obligation. In BiH institutions, a fundamental budget principle on the mandatory establishment of budgetary balance has been drastically violated at BiH level, i.e. no rebalancing or harmonising of revenue and budget expenditure. No internal regulations and spending control within budget users, budget users are completely independent and irresponsible to the auditor's recommendations, so that year-on-year gaps are repeated, same gaps among the same budget users. We can think of what we want but the chaos is a mild word for how the budgetary users, in this case the BiH institution, treated the spending of the tax funds of 37 taxpayers in 2005. This team is more than any ministry in the Council of Ministers has received a positive opinion from the auditors, and the opinion with the reserve has been given to state institutions such as: the BiH Presidency, the SIPA, the DGS, the BiH Law Department, the Constitutional Court, the Directorate for indirect taxation, etc. These are indeed dreary messages to BiH citizens, i.e. taxpayers and those on whom the international rating of BiH depends. I must present my objections to the auditors this way, first of all, in two things. First, with all due respect to audit standards, their findings were carried out in gloves to the shoulder and I personally get the impression that they wanted to protect budget users from facing the consequences of illegal work. This kind of report could have been made invisible and I personally think that in a particular case, they forgot that they were an independent institution. My second objection is that, in their findings and opinions, they have been kept exclusively on global assessments of the state without entering the so-called analytical audit, which I cannot interpret differently but as purposely concealing the dirty laundry that has remained locked up and unreachable to the court of responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, these audits and audit opinions are unnecessary and represent a waste of time and additional spending of taxpayers' resources. With respect to the effort made, they cannot agree with the Commission's concept of finance and budget which, year after year, responsible institutions and people should be asked to work under the law. I think it's the practice of this home and that it needs to be interrupted. The Commission's financial and budgetary report also lacks a recommendation to the Parliamentary Assembly that an audit report with findings and a stenogram of the debate on this issue be delivered to the prosecution responsible for the possible launch of responsibilities for the irregularities observed. Without determining responsibility for the responsible persons, they are excessive and unnecessary and audit and report and this debate. In this sense, I support the proposal for a conclusion which reads: The College of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of BiH is tasked with delivering the report of the Office for the Review of the BiH Institutions for 2005, together with the Commission's Report on Budget and Finance, as well as a stenogram of the debate on this issue to the competent prosecutor for further handling and possible initiation of investigative actions on responsible persons due to irregularities in the law available to budget funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10253	I think that's what the Audit Office is doing, they're delivering it to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10254	But here's with this stenogram and this expanded more.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10255	Thank you, Mr. Dolić. Mr. Jašarević. But here's to saying we have a representative, representatives of the Audit Office. I hope they're watching.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10256	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Of course, everyone has the right to appreciate the review report’s experience based on what is written. What I would like to point out, and what has been pointed out on many occasions on both the Commission on Finance and the budget, is that in the adoption of the Law on the financing of institutions, we missed the opportunity to take part in what we are saying today, which is better than last time, that we didn't even talk about it. Therefore, we have not incorporated into the Law on the financing of institutions and our task is to bring budgetary users into an ambience of greater financial discipline by creating a more precise legal framework. We have only one amendment, which is that the redistribution within one budget user is limited to 10%, which could force budget users to plan a budget for their work programme with the accuracy of 90%. Our task remains that in the years to come, that limit may be, we move. And it is a shame that we did not agree that at the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury we do not strengthen the Budget Implementation Department which would ultimately be the controller of any financial transaction and before it was created, especially after the delivery of the documents on the basis of which the payment is made. If we're brave enough, we can do it by next year. But we shouldn't put it off because it's not possible to achieve greater discipline when the funding of institutions works like 45th, if I said it well there, independent companies and no one makes an account, no one gets consent to their work programme. I would like to point out, therefore, that the Council of Ministers is not the owner of BiH's policy and objectives for all agencies and directorates working for the needs of this country. If we were to establish such a department that would be in control before the start, so the cost and that would check the documentation at the cost, then we would have a situation where we would automatically respect all the laws, and here I would highlight the most Public Procurement Act. I think that at the last session, we have created certain assumptions for more effective compliance with this law by giving the task of putting in place a commission that solves complaints in this process. Another possibility or other need to intervene is the establishment of an internal audit institution. We suggested it as a commission to this home. We didn't find a model to do that. I also think that we could begin through the Funding Act, so we could sow the seed of the obligation to form such an institution, because I think it's much more important to intervene in the course of the year, not to cause damage to public income than to audit, an external review at the end of the year of the picture of the situation as it is. 39 I must further point out that there is insufficient knowledge for both internal control and budget planning. No matter what we say, we need to educate the civil servants of this country, talk about finance now, in the area of finance to be able to plan the necessary funds other than the programmes and objectives that need to be achieved and with the permission of those who follow their work and who they need to report. If not, we will always have too much space busy in the budget and insufficient spending of funds from this budget. And I must finally say, as a member of the commission, that we have also received information that all reports are going to the D.A., but that we are deeply aware that it is much more important to take steps to bring people into an ambience of greater financial discipline than the Prosecutor's Office will introduce order, available, with these means. Some of these things can be done to the budget rebalances we should objectively expect, but most should be planned wisely this year and made assumptions for the next financial year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10257	Thank you, Mr. Jašarević. Are there any more reported? Here they come in on time, so Mr. Džaferović, Mr. Genjac. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10258	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I think we need to change the practice, so I won't talk about the state audit reports, I'll talk about Parliament's relationship with the reports we get here. So first, to discuss today in April 2007 on the 2005 Report, I think you'll agree that the good part is inactive and is not interesting for the widest circle of people who.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10259	Long-term practice, long-term practice. So we'll change it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10260	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to allow me to continue to say what I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10261	Of course, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10262	You guys can do as much later as you want. Thank you very much. So, I think that from the very beginning, so, since 2001, as we have gone into trouble or introduced the practice of considering these reports in Parliament, we have one wrong relationship with this question 40 or I would say an underresponsible relationship to this issue. I know how much we wanted and how much we struggled to get this institution to file reports as soon as possible, to know what all this could mean when it comes to budget spending, or public funds. That is why I think, therefore, that the time has come to change the practice that only after two years, when a report is submitted for a certain year, the report in Parliament is being considered. There is therefore responsibility and review, there is responsibility for both Parliament and all of us who are involved in this. And the other thing, I think it's inadmissible that at one session, I think it's inadmissible for the future, is it should change practice to find 20 individual reports for 20 institutions in BiH at one session. I think we should, that after one session, maybe we should consider two or three reports, have the state auditor come to us here and submit an opening statement on each report. To tell us what the problems are, to open up the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10263	May I have your attention and patience, please? Attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10264	Let's open up a discussion about problems in a concrete institution. To take our views, our conclusions, and then inform all those we need to inform. In this way, if we continue to work like this we will simply devalue the role of state audit because today this will go as far as the media is interested as it has been before, is it for individual reports, but I think that so far there will be one complete analysis by Parliament. I think that's how the parliamentary commission should work in the future. Therefore, each report, the specific item of the agenda and the specific debate with the introduction of the auditor's presentation. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about why we haven't achieved the effects we were supposed to have on these reports. We had practice in 2001, practice, a man from Norway came here to the BiH Parliament from Torting, I was a member of a commission in the State House of Peoples, and I know how it is imagined to handle these reports. What we, today or, that is, the practice that we have established here in Parliament, I think is wrong and needs to be changed and treated differently with these reports. All of this, this could have gone well without the BiH Parliament, if we keep doing this. The general auditor conducts a review, i.e. his institution, auditors, and I don't know the technologies they have and deliver the matter to the prosecution, this will certainly go to the prosecution for review. I want Parliament to fulfill its role here, therefore, that Parliament also tells the Council of Ministers and audits and every institution and individual what it thinks about all of this and take appropriate measures based on this report. If someone needs to be replaced, let's switch, if a man repeats the same mistake for three years, he hasn't done his job, so let's go, we're Parliament if it's in our jurisdiction to finish this job with that man. Or recommend it to an institution that needs to do it. So, aside from that prosecution that we're constantly calling upon, we've delivered a report to the D.A. calmly. That we, as Parliament, 41 do our part of the job and start one, one, a wide range of these activities that need to be undertaken for a concrete report. I'm in that direction, so I'm pleading this, I'm not suggesting a conclusion, however you like, you can formulate it as a conclusion and you don't have to. I had a need to say this. Because you're right, so this is an ugly practice that's been going on for a few years now, but here. I'm up to talk about it now because it came to my door when it comes to this practice and I suggest we change it this way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10265	Thank you very much, Mr. Džaferović. We agree, of course. Here you go, Mr. Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10266	The esteemed chairman, it is not, by chance, a follow-up of the auditor institution's report in BiH institutions is one of the strategic, short-term priorities of the European Partnership for BiH because the institution's strength is crucial for the functioning of BiH institutions. Of course, if we look at the more detailed reports provided by the institution of the auditors, they do not end up in a way that we are considering them here, they last the entire calendar year of parliamentary work and, if we look more carefully, the recommendations of the auditors include maybe 60% of the activities that the Parliamentary Assembly should bring with the need to pass laws, sublegal acts, etc. and thus allow the recommendations of the auditor to be respected. I think it would be good for the auditor's recommendations this year to reflect on the work plan of both homes in an adequate manner, as well as the work of other institutions. However, what I want to point out in the end and for what I have reported most, namely, is the question of who audits the business of the Audit Office. Whether financial operations should be audited by the Audit Office, which is also an institution. Of course, the Law on the Audit of BiH institutions also provides, and we passed this law early last year, it is envisaged that the Parliamentary Assembly appoints a special group of independent auditors who review these work reports, the financial operations of the Audit Office and that the report is delivered to the PS before the adoption of the budget for the following year. Of course, there are calendar problems, and we're obviously too late this year. However, in favour of strengthening the institutions of the auditors, the general auditor in BiH institutions and in favour of increasing the credibility of the institution, I think it would be good for the College of both homes to provide for the next Open Assembly, at the next session, to open the procedure as the Law on the Audit of the Institutions provided for, the procedure for the appointment of a group of external auditors to carry out an audit of the operations of the Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10267	Thank you very much, Mr. Genjac. Any further reports? Mr. Novaković, Mr. Ivanković. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10268	Thank you very much. I just wanted to comment here one, one, this fact, which is, I've heard from a few colleagues. In fact, the fact that, regardless of the views of the D.A.'s review committee, they haven't finished their part of the job, means, that we practically repeat the same findings year after year, and that, of course, we expect the D.A. to inform or, I don't know what to do about it either.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10269	Well, here's the D.A., so maybe we'll hear about it. What can we expect?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10270	Please, I, I, I just want to make one comment on this, namely, I think that, uh, some of these discussions here or most of the discussions are acceptable. What we might be able to bring more than, as some conclusion or recommendation, is that we know the fate of what we conclude. So, if we accept reports with those conclusions to go to the D.A.'s office, then maybe we could ask the D.A. to provide us with information on what he did in that report. But look, I am, I have here, a memo from the BiH Prosecutors' Association, of course, I don't think it's this, oh, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, but the Federation Association that has a proposal for constitutional definition. Look, I'll read only point 2: "The prosecutor's duty is permanent, prosecutors cannot carry out other duties, prosecutors cannot be called to criminal, criminal and other responsibility for any action done in accordance with official regulations in the performance of their duties. During the duties, salaries and other compensations of prosecutors cannot be diminished."Beware, that is the provision we urgently had to make, we had to go here, if you remember in the past session, to throw out of the Constitution. "The prosecutor shall appoint and resolve the High Court and Prosecutorial Council in accordance with the law." I read this because it is obvious that people do not have time to deal with this, since they are dealing with this. So instead of being, instead of being
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10271	That's what you're bringing into contact with the audit, with the audit reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10272	Instead of dealing with what they were told there, they deal with their questions, issues of their status. And they don't even deal with organized crime, which is one of their obligations, of course not, when I talk about it, I don't mean these audit reports. And here they don't even deal with these audit reports. Instead of protecting, so the law and the Constitution, actually they, they're trying, here, through two members to change it. Thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10273	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10274	Dear Chairman, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. In 2001, when we were instituting the audit, I was chairman of the Finance Commission at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and then we had a guest president of the Upper Norwegian Parliament who tried to introduce us, because they have a good practice of reviewing and analysing audit reports. I support Mr. Džaferović's discussion because he was one of the vice-presidents of the commission and I think that one experience that we have been through will be of great value and I will take the obligation to try to convey as much of the experience as possible with the chairman of the Finance Commission of this house as possible. As we understand it, and as I look at the logic of these reports, their aim is not to put the prosecution into office, to produce enough work for the prosecution, their aim should be to act preventively and that the Commission of the Representatives and the House of Peoples acts preventively on the institutions to improve all that is not good for us. Especially what awaits us, and so far has not been done, it is an impact review. Which is far, far the most important to us. So now we're reviewing some of the mistakes that have been made in the work of the institutions, and big mistakes are made in effect. Did the billion-dollar budget and something that we adopted here give the effects that are imagined? Did some law and some decision give effect, the ones we imagined? That's why I'd suggest we get some information from the audit office. When are you planning to enter the field of impact review? That we might adopt it with one conclusion or a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10275	Thank you, Mr. Ivanković. Are there any more reported? Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10276	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have anything new to add, given that most of what's said here is true, and on many occasions it's obvious that people from Parliament and journalists, the media are most concerned with this, and at least those who need and who have their place in this whole procedure and the obligation to deal with it. However, I want to point out something else by respecting that disaster or that misery from the discussion of the Office of Appeals that we had here earlier at one of the previous sessions. Having a huge number of objections here and apparently everything revolves around this public 44 procurement story, it's very interesting to analyse to what extent the legislation here is in place and to what extent there is a possibility that certain changes are being made here. We here put examples and what we're talking about, we're talking about a framework, meaning certain decisions, within certain laws. But it would be interesting to analyze what's here with the legislation and whether it's somewhere, to some extent, brakes for certain things, or whether or not it can be, I'm not going to propose an initiative today but I'm going to prepare it for one of the next sessions. Where we're going to ask the Council of Ministers or we're going to be the bearers of that initiative to do something here. Because I think there are certain problems here, too. And if you look at the reasons when certain institutions are formed and if you look at the state in which they are now, in obvious proportions between the reasons that were applicable to their formation and the conditions which, today in them, and especially with the implications and the damages that they are doing, which we have observed here for the participants in this procedure and the vast number of users and people who suffer the consequences of ineffectiveness, these, these institutions. I think it's all grown up here to work on a simple revision of the legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10277	Thank you, Mr. Kalabić. Are there any more reported? Here you go, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10278	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. So it seems to me, when this issue is being discussed, this one, today or here, all these years since there's been an institution of the BiH Audit Office, that it's being discussed in the way anyone is experiencing or, here, as anyone thinks about that institution. We are here today discussing the Report of the Office for Auditing, so since it is a report submitted under the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of BiH, we can accept this report, we can refuse. It should usually be our turn to accept the report if we are satisfied with it. That is to say we reject it if we are not satisfied with what the BiH Institutions Audit Office has done. The institution audit office, at least as I'm experiencing, I think we're all talking about how we're experiencing it, I have to remind, here, that before, uh, deciding to even discuss this topic, I've read the law passed by the Parliamentary Assembly. So, the law on the Institutions' Audit Office did not adopt the Office for Audit, but some are calling on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And believe me, by reading this law, here I have concluded myself that there are shortcomings in the law, there are inaccuracies in the law, and now we expect all these inaccuracies, shortcomings, etc. remove the Audit Office. The second thing is the perception of the public created about this institution, because many are changing it, it's at least my impression with the institution of the prosecution, with the institution of the courts, with the institution of the law, which, by my understanding and what we've given her in the jurisdiction of 45 laws, is not at all. So this institution, in my opinion, has done its position on the izviješće, has done a pretty good and good job. Are there institutions in this country, beginning with the Parliamentary Assembly, through the Council of Ministers and other institutions that will be able to use what the Audit Office has done and present to us here? That's another problem. You know, I'm here reading all these reports I've heard a whole series of findings about how it's an inaccurate legal regulation that defines an area. It's not the audit office's problem. They found it inaccurate and here we are, here, saying it's imprecise, the Council of Ministers delivered this same report, saying it's imprecise. So someone who's in charge of a particular area should look at it now, so suggest to us here or we change those laws ourselves that are inaccurate. They say there's no internal control system. It's mentioned to me in every report. I'd ask the question, what regulation does it provide for the way these internal controls are organised? I believe that there is no Minister in the Council of Ministers that there is no one who has budgets, who would not like to have clearly defined rules on how to establish this internal control system. Because I don't feel like I'm an opposing institution that's gonna be some kind of cop over us all. It's an institution that'll help us get as high as we can, the more responsible we manage public funds. And there's one problem that's not in the domain of the Audit Office, but the part that is in the domain, to warn us, to signal us, to suggest, I think they've done a lot of good, and in that sense I would suggest and that, uh, we first accept these audit office reports and I think they've been well done. The second thing, to give the task, to conclude, is to give the Council of Ministers the task that in areas that have been found to exist inaccurate legislation, we are going through the revision of these legislations in order to really contribute to the more precise legislation that we act preventively not to have these findings repeated from year to year. What's the legal obligation, I think the Audit Office has already done, means that it delivers these reports except for these institutions to which it has also delivered to the D.A.'s office. I don't think there's any need for us to stress this out right now, because we don't need to draw conclusions if the law already provides that and if, uh, the Audit Office is doing that. So one of the conclusions we made today at the beginning of the session, so we shouldn't repeat it now. I think it will remove a whole series of shortcomings and problems, which is the Law on Payments and other fees in BiH institutions. Well, I don't think there's any need to do it now, so repeat it through the debate at this point. So I support the report on the work of the Audit Office, I think it's quite professional, quality done, and here I expect the competent institutions to do everything in accordance with the recommendations of the Report that we have fewer of these shortcomings in the next reports. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10279	Thank you. Here, if you don't mind, before I conclude, uh, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10280	Chairman, another confirmation that some of these buttons don't work for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10281	Let me see if you're registered. There's, there's, I'm sorry I didn't look, so it works. Here you go, Mr. Dokić. You're like an auxiliary little hand sometimes.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10282	I, Niko, asked me to stand up and report to support this proposal of his to ask the Council of Ministers or any other way to seriously search the Public Procurement Act. Not only does it have inaccuracies, but there are things that burden the entire system, that burden our business, that buy us the whole system, and that significantly. I wouldn't bother you with specific examples now, for example, based on my experience at the Ministry of Communications and Transport, but when the time comes to discuss it, then I'm really going to be actively involved. Because now we're not discussing it. Now we're discussing the Auditor's report. And they have to work under the law even if he's a nakarad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10283	Me, we should say that foreigners have practically made us this law and the Law on the Office for Audition with our non-observation and so on. Because not interested, we should, by the way, do an analysis of the effects of the laws being passed, right? But here, uh, so, before I conclude, to put it that way, the debate might be correct because we have representatives of the Office of Audit, we have a BiH prosecutor here, if they have a need, of course, I do not insist, but I am pleased with the debate. So, Mr. Džaferović, we have achieved today thanks to both you and Mr. Jašarević and Lozančić and all the others who discussed that we are slowly moving in the other direction. That's for sure, in a more serious way. Okay, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but it was old stuff. We're trying to change things now, that's obvious. Well, of course, and I tried to change them, of course. Here's half of them, half of them we're looking at. Is there a need for the prosecutor, or the Office of Audit, to report? Here you go, Mr. Šego. I don't see you, I see Mr. Kulin, you're a little late, but here you go. I hope you heard, that you heard, this one. Mr. Šego, state auditor.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10284	(State Auditor) 47 Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm a little late, but I've heard most of the debate, and I'm glad, actually, to discuss at this house the reports of the Audit Office. Although this report, Mr Džaferović said well, we are discussing at a time when almost a year has passed since his submission. In particular, the Office for Auditing, just to point out, drawn up these reports as well as all others in accordance with the Law on Auditing, in accordance with the Law on the Financing of Institutions, in accordance with the Auditing Standards, in accordance with the Code, in accordance with the World Practice in that area, etc. So, the recommendations in these reports, which were about 200 for 40 institutions for 2005, so 200 recommendations. They are clearly highlighted, clearly specified, supported by documents, findings and clearly seen, in fact, where the problems are. So why are the reports delivered to Parliament in the first place? They are not delivered, I hope that we all know this together, in order to adopt or reject it, but they are delivered to Parliament, in accordance with the powers, in accordance with practice and need, to draw appropriate conclusions. So, he offered and withdrew, so to say system institutions to one coordinated activity, action, to make these recommendations real. I have to say that we in the 2006 reports, which are already, there are some of them in the neighbourhood, have found that about 45% and 50% of the Office's recommendations for Audit are being implemented, implemented. Who could be responsible now, and who would be the one who will, in fact, bring those recommendations to an end, who will realize them? So, there's no one, the one to whom these reports are being delivered, that one has to pull further strings. All systems institutions available must therefore be referred to one coordinated activity. The Office’s audit reports are public, it is a public document at the time when it is delivered to Parliament, when it is placed on the website, etc. It is publicly published, it is a public document and all people of good faith, not to say the institutions of the system where it belongs and the prosecution is obliged to read these reports and find any criminal responsibilities. So the Audit Office doesn't have that repressive role and it's not the Office's obligation to process someone who committed a crime. Namely, this is not according to the Audit Act. We'd be too expensive to deal with. But it is an obligation that, if there is an eclectic example of a violation of the rules that withdraw some criminal responsibility, let the prosecution know about it. We, although we have no obligation to deliver reports to the D.A.'s office, do not, therefore, have a legal obligation to deliver our reports to the D.A.'s office, I must stress that, we delivered those reports. Let them be read and, as far as I know, the prosecution has in some cases conducted some investigations. However, there are other forms of responsibility, talking about criminal eligibility, I'm afraid a little bit of a transfer of the ball to someone else, therefore, there is another kind of responsibility, responsibility from the aspect of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, calling for this kind of responsibility, there is a moral responsibility, there is a political 48 responsibility, therefore, one responsibility for deviating phenomena that do not contain criminal responsibility in themselves. And I think we're about to do these things better and more. Here someone mentioned it, I think it's the esteemed representative Lijanović and it's a matter of reviewing the effectiveness that it will solve many problems, it is a whole new area, and we are entering the area slowly and gradually. However, the focus will still remain on the financial audit, as I said only about 50% of our recommendations are being implemented. And introducing an efficiency review on the big door at a time when very little recommendation from the financial audit is being implemented I don't think it's, uh, not productive. We've already formed one team and going to education etc. So this Parliament will be able to expect in about half a year or more and the first report of the Office for the Review of Efficiency. So, I think we should all call together to the responsibility of all those who do not implement these recommendations and in this way, the audit office itself will normally have support in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10285	Thank you, Mr. Šegi. Here's the way, so we're complete and we can conclude the overall debate today. What do we have left now? So, we have a report from our Finance and Budget Commission, so both aggregate and individual for all users who have been subject to a recommendation review, with recommendations, and I suggest we go to the adoption of the Commission's Report on, the Finance and Budget Commission, with recommendations related to these 11 reports as far as we are considering here today. Also, I have another proposal to authorise the College, and I don't need the authority to do the work that we need to do, to make, uh, a copy of the debate, or to deliver the video to the Ministry of Finance and the Office for Audit and the Finance Commission, where these initiatives that Jašarević spoke of, which some other people were talking about here, and Džaferović and Genjac etc., Kalabić. To suggest that certain initiatives are launched to also review certain legal solutions, etc. I don't see who's more invited than the Office of Audit, therefore, to give their opinion on legal regulation and the Ministry of Finance and thus to conclude this debate today. So, can we make a statement about this kind of conclusion? Vote now. So with 34 votes for, without prejudice, 2 abstentions, the enough entity majority representative house has accepted the Commission's report on finance and the budget with recommendations for the Office's Audit Report on 11 institutions that we have considered today as well as the conclusion that it undertakes the College to carry out discussions on initiatives and the rest in this area delivers to the Ministry of Finance, the Office for Audit and our Commission. We have about this debate another concrete proposal conclusion, I hope you've all got it, that you've all got it on the table. Can we make a statement about this, are you, 49, do you have Mr. Dolić's suggestion? Here I will read, here I will of course, of course, very gladly, Mr. Džaferović, uh, if you need me to sing you one. Thus, Mr Rifat Dolić suggests the following conclusion: The College of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is tasked with delivering the report of the Office for the Review of the BiH Institutions for 2005, together with the Commission's report on Budget and Finance and the stenogram of the debate on this issue to the D.A. for further action, on further action and possible launch of investigative actions on responsible persons due to irregularities and violations of the law at the disposal of budget funds. Well, Mr. Proposed, I'm obliged to make a statement, so you have a way of saying it through, you have a way of expressing it through a vote. Mr. Dolić and you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10286	I just wanted to say what the auditor already said, so it's not an obligation for the auditor to deliver these reports to the prosecution. I think we know very well how the D.A.'s doing, and I personally don't know for a single example that the D.A.'s office has opened an investigation in this matter, I think the situation deserves one conclusion, no matter what, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10287	I, Mr. Dolić, have read the clear conclusion, I hope I no longer need to read. Let me get this straight, I think it's clear to everyone what you're proposing. So we're voting on the conclusion, the proposal for Mr. Dolić's conclusion. With 25 votes against, one against, six abstentions, enough entity majority, it is concluded that Mr. Dolić's conclusion was accepted. This way we're done with point 10, we're going to go to point 11. Ad. 11. Information on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work for 2006 You got the information with the materials. I agree and welcome the representatives of the Prosecutor's Office with the Attorney General, Mr Marinko Jurčević, whom I immediately ask if there is any need for additional opening remarks regarding the report? Thank you, there isn't. So, I open the debate, I open a debate on the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2006. Here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10289	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. 50 I will speak in the first part as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, and later I will speak something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10290	May I have your attention and patience so we can finish the work that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10291	As an MP, therefore, the Constitutional Commission had this information on the agenda and, according to the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, took note of this information and suggested that this home be informed of this information. And I got up to draw particular attention to the Commission's chair, underlining point 2, of the Commission's opinion, which said that the Constitutional Commission in the debate paid particular attention to the information issues, which burdened the prosecution's work in 2006, from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, the BiH Presidency, the Council of Ministers, expects full engagement to overcome these problems. I don't know whether the BiH Prosecutor's Office is also delivering its report to the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, but regardless of the fact, I think it would be interesting, therefore, to accept with one of these positions that we propose, and the BiH House of Representatives to meet both the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers, certainly here is this home. Because really, if this information is carefully read, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and in turn the BiH Court, have problems, and these are important problems, which they face in their work, and in particular, these departments, refer to both the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And what I want to say now as an MP is that in BiH, both at the Bureau level and at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, we need to take urgent action to resolve the problems or this problem listed in the prosecution's information regarding the functioning of the War Crimes Department in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. On page 8 of this information, under the heading Problems faced by the Special War Crimes Department, it is stated: “As one of the problems that significantly affects the results of the work, and the efficiency of this department are: the dual citizenship of persons suspected of war crimes. Namely, many suspects in war crimes crimes in BiH territory, besides BiH's citizenship, also own the citizenship of neighbouring states. As the relevant constitutional provisions of the neighbouring countries prevent the extradition of their citizens, it is possible, and this has already happened in practice, that the persons who would have been subject to the law, who would have been indicted after the investigation, remain inaccessible to the BiH authorities, simply crossing the state border, and that the work of prosecutors in open investigations remains without the indictment as a final result, because the prosecutor without hearing the suspect cannot press charges." Closed signs, finished quote from this information. 51 I think this is a matter that we in BiH, therefore, Parliament, the Presidency and the Council of Ministers need to take seriously. And to call for action, therefore, both ourselves as the BiH Parliament and the state government, that is, the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency, because I think this practice must stand still and that this problem in the work of the most prosecutor's institution in BiH, and also the BiH judicial institutions must be put to rest. I think that the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers should launch activities to ensure that in bilateral talks with the countries to which this applies, and this applies primarily to neighbouring countries, it resolves this issue and allows all perpetrators to be tried according to the general rule of law applicable in criminal law when it comes to local jurisdiction, which is the place of execution of the crime, i.e. the place of execution, the execution of the crime. This can be achieved regardless of the views of neighbouring countries, current attitudes and their current constitutional provisions, given the European path that BiH and those countries should cross. This must be one of the essential conditions, essential conditions, which must be met on the European path of all the countries in, in, the region because it must be possible for the State to, if the offence is committed on its territory, that State, or its court, judge no matter who it is and where the perpetrator is from. Well, of course, the crimes of war crimes and genocide that I'm talking about. Therefore, I propose that the report of the Constitutional Commission, which, I say, contains this formulation in point 2, which I spoke about, also delivers to the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency and the stenogram from today's debate, and today as an MP, I have come out and spoken, so specifically about this problem, this is just one of the problems facing the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and the Constitutional Commission, I say, has accepted that it is both the BiH Presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers who is full of engagement to remove problems in the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10292	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Any further reports? Let's go in order: Mr. Nanić, Mrs. Milica, Križanović, Ahmetović, Hadžiahmetović, Ajanović, Novaković, Genjac. Is there more? And Belkić, that I speak too.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10293	I thank the Chairman, I would like to take the opportunity to comment and give some suggestions regarding this report, which concerns the crimes in Chapter 18 and 19, according to this Report, which are specific, mainly related to crimes, means against the economy, corruption and organised crime, and so on. We have been witnessing that for a long time, the need to, to regulate or allow the seizure of illegally acquired property, through attempt to adopt certain regulations, amendments to criminal law, etc. 52 But here are the instruments that we have in the existing regulations that can be used, at least here through this report you can't see, what are the active ones on this issue? So it was asked, in addition to these reports that were filed, that the funds, or the funds that were estranged, were these works that were mentioned here, shown here certain data. But there is nowhere to be found, were the funds for alienation also required to return, and what were the judgments on this matter, that is, not judgment but what were the charges on that matter? And I think this report should be completed with that data. Is there, how much is there and what is the situation with these items? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10294	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10295	Honored members, chairman, fellow MPs. Let me make some of my own observations about the information we have on the agenda today. First, I'd like to make a few general observations, and then a few individual observations about this information. When I read it, and taking into account certain, certain observations and opinions that exist in the public opinion on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, there are divided opinions because there is one part of the public opinion that the Prosecutor's Office considers to have some good results in its work, but there is certainly that part of the public who considers that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has not met certain criteria and has not justified the objectives of its existence, given the overall political, social, economic and any other situation in BiH. Of course, this information shows, where it is said that during 2006, the BiH Prosecutor's Office had about 4,700 items that had handled one part of the case from 2005 and by the figures it would have been said to be a large number of cases and, on the other hand, it was a great effort for the prosecution to respond to its task, and in general, the purpose it has in this society. But, of course, when you continue to look at and analyze this information, then I noticed the following, that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, as stated here, significant results, i.e., as they said through the solution of the investigation, achieved the best results in part of the overall criminality, and let me say, the biggest problems and the least results in the war crimes department. What I'm interested in, and I want an explanation from BiH's chief prosecutor, so what about the third part of the prosecution's work? It is an economic crime and especially corruption that has been observed in BiH society. It seems to me that in the area of corruption, we have not had examples of more significant results achieved by this BiH institution. 53 Of course, when it comes to the problems facing the BiH Prosecutor's Office, it is then pointed out that their problems are the most pronounced in the war crimes department's work. On this side, I call on both this home and the Council of Ministers and all other institutions that are competent and should contribute, therefore, to support the measures given at the end of this information, which are necessary to be met in order for the prosecution to respond in full, full capacity to its task. Of course, when it comes to the prosecution, about the War Crimes Department, I want to say that BiH, as a state and as a society, should give full support to the BiH Prosecutor's Office in that part. And I can't, not to mention one fact, that is, the information we met with yesterday, about which we were informed through public information funds, which is that two members of the BiH presidency have called on the Republic of Serbia to arrest two war crimes suspects. I then wonder, by reading yesterday and today this Information, does this mean that these two members of the Bureau are doubting the work and the ability, the capacity of the BiH Prosecutor's Office to respond to this task or what is this about? So, what I want to finally point out is that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should make a major contribution particularly to the legislation that is envisaged here, therefore, to improve and improve legal regulation in BiH, which would allow for the full result and effect of this institution in BiH, and of course, that, in terms of the material and financial needs and requirements of this institution, it should also give support and enable, but of course, expect full and concrete results from that side. I want to say that one part of the BiH public, in some significant segments of life in BiH, does not approve of the prosecution's work and believes that there is still a slowness, that there is ineffectiveness, that there is a certain inertness. When you talk about it, then you must see it objectively and take into account the other side's opinion, that they have certain problems, but of course, they cannot solve these problems on their own and there is the BiH Parliament, the Council of Ministers and other institutions that should support and, yes, create an environment to expect concrete results from this institution. So, what I've reported most for is an explanation from the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10296	Thank you. Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to say that all I intend to say briefly about this Information is a good intention to support, support the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. This information is very informative to me, but generally informative. We can look at the structure, the part - time work, and some of the basic problems the prosecution faces in its work. 54 However, what I think is missing from this Information is some qualitative, qualitative indicators that could make this Parliament more responsible for accessing certain solutions to assist and improve the work of the Prosecutor's Office. Let me just have a few concrete, therefore, remarks which, hopefully, could be incorporated into a report by the Prosecutor's Office which I hope this Parliament will also discuss. On page 10, when it comes to organised crime, economic crime and corruption, it is stated that the prosecution has good cooperation and regular, therefore, cooperation with domestic and international institutions and bodies, in particular with the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, so to the SIPA, the State Border Service, the Department of Direct Taxation, the Ministry of Security, the entity MUPs, etc. What I would like to see from this is, therefore, one general formulation, one general finding, is that there is not a single sentence anywhere that is an institution in BiH of these listed ones that gave the strongest, safest bases that could have been made by the prosecution as one real basis for processing, for raising charges, etc. What could be linked to the previous debate, when we discussed here a review of the financial operations of the BiH institutions, even the Prosecutor's Office does not mention. So none, none of these, let me say, of the audit documents was any signal to the D.A. for the possible processing of some institutions. It is said that I do not know if this is a random coincidence, but let’s say on the 10th page: “This Department of the Prosecutor’s Office during 2006 conducted investigations of criminal offences from its jurisdiction in 219 cases against 535 persons, of which 63 ended up in 139 cases against 252 persons at the end of the year. ” You see these two numbers, 139 items and 252 persons, so they account for 63% of the completed cases in the last year. And the following sentence says: “The orders for non-execution have been made in relation to this same number of persons and the same number of cases.” So 63%, therefore, of the prosecution's work refers to orders to abandoning the investigation. Are these random numbers matching or is that really so? It would be very important if we had the data, how many convictions have been passed, so of these 146 persons, to whom it relates, the table they were convicted, which, I say, were crimes? How much is this cash, say, the total verdict that has been passed? And how much is it possible that what colleague Nanić is, uh, the problem of taking away illegally acquired property? In this regard, I would also like to express my satisfaction that the Prosecutor's Office is in its strategic objectives, with a strategic objective of 2, saying: "it will be, that it is firm, that it will insist firmly on making new and applying existing legal solutions in order to prevent perpetrators of criminal offences from retaining illegally acquired property." In this context, it is said: "It will actively participate in the process of establishing effective mechanisms and procedures for confiscation of the unlawfully acquired benefits and rational management and availability of the seized property, including active participation in the proposed measures and regulations". 55 I mentioned this to remind my colleagues from the last call of this Parliament, that we had twice had a serious debate on the need to adopt laws on the establishment of a special agency that would ensure the illegal confiscation of illegally acquired property and the management of that property. I want to express my satisfaction, but I expect from the prosecution and more specifically, to say, the demands, to say what the problems with the definition are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10298	Sadik, it's your turn now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10299	Definitions and quantifications of illegally acquired assets. Are the institutions listed here, and we don't know how much, effectively, something has contributed to the discovery of this crime, enough for the prosecution to thoroughly and reasonedly process this section of the lawsuit that would refer to the quantification of illegally acquired assets?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10300	Please, officers, do your affairs outside the session. I warned you once.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10301	In particular, it would be a significant indication by the prosecution of the problem of management of potentially seized assets. In this country, we have never received precise information, we have sought MPs, through the institution of parliamentary matters and from the prosecution, and from the Court to tell us: How many illegal assets have been seized in BiH so far, and how is this property managed? The answers of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office are different and no one, in fact, has the right answer as to how illegally acquired property is managed in BiH today. Only at the end of two short questions, or suggestions. It would be important that, in addition to finding that at least the number of prosecuted lawsuits is increasing, we know the situation in BiH when it comes to general and overall criminality, let me say, in relation to our environment. Are we one country so polluted by it? Or, let me say, in some relationships, some to say normal, normal, uh, phenomenon. I'd like another clarification. I believe other colleagues don't understand that. What does that mean? An order from quitting the trial, or a lawsuit, is it? Here, to be exact, it's like, here it's just as formulated as:
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10302	A little louder, Mr. Križanović, you can't hear.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10303	"The order not to conduct an investigation" as it is called, to explain the institution to me. I mean, who's taking that order, and what does that mean? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10304	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10305	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, colleagues. I'll have a few sentences only that have something to do with the BiH Prosecution's work. We must at first say that my support for the prosecution's work will always depend on what capacity and how well the Department of State's Attorney's Office, the Department of Prosecution or the Department of War Crimes is doing. Both the prosecutor and the D.A. and all of us here are well known that the International Court of Justice in The Hague is a crime in Srebrenica in '95. For years, he characterized, and in his judgment he said it was the most severe form of war crime, a crime of genocide. The Srebrenica Commission established by the Government of the RS in its Report, among other things, said that, until today, in the institutions, in the institutions of the State of BiH, therefore, its entities, police, SIPA and others, therefore the state services still operate, there are 892 people on this list and to this day, according to information that I have, and usually, I find out from the media, there has been no processing of those working in the state, state services. I ask, therefore, the question here and the prosecutor and all of us: Why didn't the trial take place? I must, uh, say one fact or I would like to hear, therefore, and for the prosecutor himself and all those who deal with the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, to answer my question: Does the Prosecutor's Office have the capacity to say on one hand, let's say, in a modest time, that with its power, capacity and all that it has, it can satisfy the necessary, need of justice when it comes to the crime of genocide? It is our obligation both to the state and to the generations, and to the future of this country, that those responsible for the most serious form of war crime in the recent history of Europe and the world be prosecuted before domestic courts, by the institutions of government, by those responsible for the crime of genocide. Therefore, today, given all this in mind, I think that the current form as organised by the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH is unable or has no capacity to face such a large, therefore, problem ahead of both the tužilaštvo's Office and the Court and BiH. I therefore propose that the process of amending the law on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH be immediately concluded, with amendments, which will form, in addition to special departments in these institutions, a genocide division committed in the Srebrenica and Zepa protected zone based in Srebrenica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10306	Thank you. Azra Hadžiahmetović. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10307	I apologize in advance. I'm not a lawyer, unlike.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10308	I beg the messengers for patience, but a large number has left the hall, so I beg your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10309	Unlike some colleagues who spoke competently today as lawyers, I'm not a lawyer, so if I don't use the language of the profession, I'm asking you to excuse me in advance. I will make a brief conclusion, in order to suggest in some ways, perhaps this institution as well as other institutions that have an obligation to this Parliament, to regularly submit reports, to suggest that they take advantage of this opportunity, unlike other institutions, to indicate in the report the needs of possibly parliamentary engagement in certain areas, areas, etc. which would be helpful in the work of an institution. I am very sorry when I saw in the report, for example, among other things, the financial report, i.e., in a way and planning the 2007 Budget, let's say, this Parliament, among other things, did not have this report when the budget was adopted. Because, in any case, at least as far as the Party for BiH MPs' Club is concerned, the corrections, that is, any of your suggestions in terms of the financial report would be translated into an amendment when the budget is adopted. I would just like to mention that I am suggesting that the prosecution, as well as other institutions, which are, therefore, under the obligation to indicate in particular the problems they are facing in the report, which, as regards the work of this Parliament and possibly suggest the adoption of gossiping or amendments to some laws or the adoption of some new laws, namely the decision by Parliament to the Council of Ministers, would, in some ways, contribute to the easier work and implementation of the objectives, i.e. the measures set out in the function of achieving the objectives for the next, or already for this period by 2010. This is one general suggestion, I would suggest to the Prosecutor's Office, therefore, that, either in the next report or perhaps not even waiting for the next report, as an integral part of this information, therefore, deliver to us a list of needs that the Prosecutor's Office has in terms of parliamentary support in jurisdiction, of course Parliament which, which, as a part of our division of state competences. And finally one question, or two, one question. I know that, a few years ago, I was the initiator that all the reports of the Audit Office that this Parliament is receiving and which it is considering in the procedure under consideration, here, today ended the review report of the Office for the 2005 review, to be delivered to the Prosecutor's Office and that if the Prosecutor's Office considers it necessary to initiate some procedure. If he believes that there were irregularities in the prosecution's jurisdiction, he would do so in the nature of his engagement. And that's the conclusion that's been following these reports for several years. And I'm wondering if the prosecution has ever identified 58 irregularities, i.e., established the basis for the launch of actions that are within the jurisdiction of the D.A.'s office after seeing the, uh, reports? If not, let's ask why not? Because here I will remind you, today, with the conclusion of the debate on the report of the Audit Office, it was possible to spot, or careful analysts could see that almost every report of the Office of Audit was followed by the findings, therefore, that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act were not respected. Among other things, there was an explanation that it was the first year of application of the Public Procurement Act. Are we passing laws that only by the review report we realize are not respected? Or do some laws justify not implementing in the first year of existence? If they do, then it should be foreseen in the transitional provisions of those laws. Or maybe it's something else. So, I'm wondering if the D.A.'s ever considered the audit office's reports and if it's taken any action, if it's not why it isn't? Well, if nothing else, this parliament knows in the future that the review report is not sending to the D.A., so it won't be crowded with papers. So, my suggestions in the best interest, therefore, that the Prosecutor's Office is future in our information as an integral part of the information or that, yes, we are already in this debate for one of the next sessions to provide special information in terms of Parliament's suggestion, which Parliament should make, therefore, in the engagement in the domain of its, its, its engagement. And another question concerning the Office of Audit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10310	Thank you. Mr. Novaković and we have more Mr. Genjac reported, Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10311	You see, I gave my position on this material on the Constitutional Legal Commission, supporting the opinion contained in the three, three positions of the Constitutional Legal Commission, and I didn't answer for it. By the way, I'm rereading this letter of initiation, of the BiH Prosecutors' Debt, and I'd like to know here: So, are the prosecutors he has 13, meaning with the Attorney General and the Deputy Prosecutor, members of this association, and if not everyone, I'm interested in who they are? In view of this, I have already said that this association has provided the Constitutional Legal Commission with a "constitutional definition" as they have called, or a draft, a practical, amendment to the Constitution in which, in one article, it says: "The prosecution is an independent state body in BiH that is taking the prescribed action in order to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts, invests legal means in order to protect constitutionality and legality." So those who need to protect constitutionality and legality propose amendments to the Constitution, or propose changes in this sphere, and I think that, I do not dispute the right for people to think about their own status, but I think that the way they did so is extremely inappropriate to their call and business that they are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10312	Mr. Genjac. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10313	Dear colleagues, it is quite realistic to expect that the issue of the prosecution of war crimes indictees committed on BiH territory, and the inaccessible BiH Prosecutor's Office, will be sharpened significantly until the next report. This problem that is constantly present and can obviously only be addressed by lobbying organisations, international institutions in the European Union, in order to set itself up as a condition for the integration of co-operation in this area. So, he's trying to get rid of, for now, certain procedures that are obviously not enough. The current ruling by the Court of Justice in Serbia for the terrible crime committed by the škorpion, the amount of the verdict, with the president of the state saying that such crimes require the most severe punishment, and the Court brings punishment that is symbolic in some parts. It shows that the problem will continue to be tightened by the tendency to become a significant political issue and to burden relations in BiH in a very ugly way. So, I think that in order to prepare for this issue and address this problem, the BiH Prosecutor's Office should prepare for the next report a part of the report that shows: What about the fate of the persons indicted by the prosecution, who are possibly prosecuted for reasons of dual citizenship in the countries of the neighbourhood or are possibly not processed and why they are not processed? That's one question. And second question, I think the BiH Prosecutor's Office should also prepare information for the next report: What are the effects of the country's prosecutors' agreement in the region? How do these effects affect the processing of war crimes indictees? What should be changed in these agreements, and what else can be done? I also think of the prosecutor's agreements, as well as the agreements of prosecutors with regional importance, such as the Prosecutor's Office of the Prosecution Canton with the prosecutor of Serbia, etc. I'm using, of course, the prosecutor's presence here to make some suggestions and try to prepare as best to solve this problem and to discuss this issue competently. And finally, one technical suggestion for the next report that I made and on the Constitutional Commission, indeed, the next report should be drawn up in the form of tables that enable the combination of numbers. This report is with a large number of data, a huge number of data, it's very difficult to track all those in the field of numbers, it can be solved in a way to create tables from which they are shown in parallel for the past and next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10314	Mr. Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10315	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. 60 Of course, in this D.A.'s report, I'm most interested in the work of the Department of War Crimes Prosecution. But I have to say right now, I'm neither defending the report nor attacking it. Without creating a BiH strategy on the prosecution's work when it comes to this department, we will never get out of this vicious circle. But it is generally known that these are the very problems and the biggest stumbling block, so I would say international misunderstandings in BiH. You know for a fact that the International Court in The Hague and the Prosecutor's Office have completed their work and have given a certain deadline, therefore, from the Security Council. I, of course, plead that BiH's legislative institutions limit the work of the prosecution and give it an optimal deadline, let's say five years old. By, of course, helping the D.A. and the D.A. to show us what it would take for the prosecution's capacity to complete these cases in this time. Why? Everyone knows that in front of the court are the main witnesses. Unfortunately, the situation is this: most of all, this population is dying right now, because there have been terrible tortures. If it's going to be a comfort to us that we're going to finish some of those items under that system that war crimes never get old, 30 or 40 years from now, then there's nothing going on in these trials. So, I advocate that the D.A. give one proposal, first of all, when it comes to the resources of the D.A.'s office, which is: personnel equipment and the number of people working on various farts. And it's known that this prosecution is stifled with the number of cases and it seems to me to be working on about 12,000 people being led in these cases. So, what do we get if we keep getting reports of this nature that good co-operation was with The haški Tribunal? What about those items that The Hague tribunal, when it comes to the Serbian side, will I say openly, never wanted to open? He never wanted to take them seriously for consideration. And what about those cases that are still arriving today at the BiH Prosecutor's Office, because new data is being discovered every day and new evidence is being made of war crimes committed throughout BiH? I've never asked for a balance in the amount of crimes committed, but I'm looking for a balance in the amount of justice. Unfortunately, there is no justice here. Because the D.A.'s War Crimes Department should be based on three basic premises. So, firstly, to achieve justice for victims, to process individuals through this justice, I stress, who committed war crimes and to remove the mortgage collective from certain peoples, as today is generally accepted, unfortunately, opinion, and third, that on the basis of these trials, they achieve as much truth as they do, although it is only one fiction, because here everyone has their own truth and individual and the people and the international community, etc. So, what I advocate is that Mr. Jurčević, with whom I really must admit, I had good cooperation when I was still in NGOs and I suggested that he come out with a strategy that we think we end this. BiH is, I would say, 95th or 96th place of the crime scene, and I don't like to say corruption, corruption is kinder than the number of crimes committed by thieves, mafias, criminals. That's three words that paint the best of that category of people. Of course, aided in a certain period of time with the political mafia. Because one without another never could. 61 So, Mr. Jurčević, I'm asking you, you don't have to deliver to us today, within a very short time period, your proposal for a strategy as you think in an optimal time frame, and he's only 5 years in my opinion, to solve these problems? Or do you need another 100 prosecutors?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10316	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10317	Do you need another 150 prosecutors, or do I not know how many, to seriously go to cases? And I must tell you that the Serbian side and all the debts they call me are completely dissatisfied with the work of the War Crimes Processing odelenje. So then the wrong picture is created that only here are privileged one, that the other are immediately at the beginning convicted before and bringing charges etc., etc. But since this is the most painful part of the people in BiH, I'm pushing for this as soon as possible, not to push under the carpet. And I'll just use one more of these. The communists, while in power, had a truly remarkable strategy. They created an ambience for the people to live well, and the people did not rebel. The sensitive stuff was pushed under the carpet. Authorities in BiH, headed by other institutions, stole the carpet, no carpets, that's the problem why nothing works here. So I ask you to do this in particular, this part of which is in charge of victims who cannot bear, which have been with you countless times, which every day they call me and you, too, Mr. Chairman, including all of us, and almost the people of Srebrenica. It's a painful point, we have people to solve, there's no economic perspective or progress to move forward in anything, any reform until we resolve this. And this is the biggest problem this parliament has to give the greatest support and priority in solving. Please, clearly I mean, I've never supported any single person from my people who committed a crime in front of anyone, but I was the first to advocate being brought to court. Whether all Srbin are guilty, bring everything to court, but no, there are individuals from other peoples who have committed crimes against Srbin, against Hrvat. So let's sort it out. Don't let us spin around in a vicious circle. And that's the main task of the D.A.'s office, not to send us the kind of cooperation you've had with Karlo Del Ponte, of which there's nothing left and thank Bog it's not her on the screen, because here and the kids were getting frustrations from her. No one here knew anyone but her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10318	Thank you, Mr. Jovičić. We have, please, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10319	I would ask colleagues to refrain from qualifications when it comes to individual officials of international organisations and I would ask my colleague Jovičić, regardless, we can have 62, uh, individual differing opinions about someone's engagement and someone's work, but to keep this parliament from discussing that kind, because I think we better focus on the Prosecutor's Office as an institution of BiH. The more I think we'd go into the field and discuss things differently. I ask you, therefore, to this occasion only, when it comes to the work of international organisations, especially individuals working in international organisations and on BiH issues, to refrain from qualifications of this kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10320	Thank you. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10321	I want to tell this Parliament my opinion. I didn't ask Parliament to support me or vote for a conclusion because I didn't have one, but
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10322	In this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10323	But I will repeat, the biggest accident for the Serbian people is Karlo Del Ponte, and I have said it in her eyes three times, so I am not running away from that truth that I said, why should I.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10324	She told me she was scared.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10325	Someone in my name feared what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10326	Okay, thank you very much, this one. In this House everyone has the right to speak, you have no reason to, uh, benevolent intervention. Here you go, replica, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10327	Well, then, to an esteemed colleague, Jovičić, therefore, a replica, as he wishes to understand. But I think the biggest accident for the Serbian people is they, therefore, Srbin from the ranks, therefore, who committed crimes and crimes of genocide in BiH. And the Serbian people need to make that detour to move together in BiH together in the future, all together.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10328	Thank you. Let's get back to the debate. So, we have more reports, we have more Ekrem Ajanović, Jerk Ivanković, Šemsudin Mehmedović, I hope, is 63 I see on the screen. I'm asking you all to sign in. Here, they've defined themselves, now it's Remzija Kadrić, Mr. Sefer Halilović. So, Šemsudin Mehmedović, have you been reported? On screen, Jerko Ivanković, reported. So, like this: Jerko Ivanković, Sefer Halilović, Remzija Kadrić, I give up absolutely immediately. Ekrem Ajanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10329	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start my own, my first exposure with certain things. In any case, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I support the whole conclusions of the neighbour and the proposal made by Mr Džaferović. And I also have to say to my own people, that certain debaters are in certain parts of me, thank Bog, and they took a certain part of the discussion that I thought that I should present and fully support the first part of the discussion that my colleague made, here's to say, which she first discussed. That the fact is one in BiH, that the population is learning, making both the media and society as a whole as expected certain and spectacular results from the prosecution without actually looking at them as they are. That's why I'm saying that we need to observe this report in time, not to say, in space and limiting factors that limit the possibility of the prosecution's work at the state level. And for that reason, I fully support this report, and I will support it, by having to say my personal opinion, which is that we in Parliament need to be the ones who are going to run certain things, if we spot them, in order for these things to change. So I'll just mention a few things. The fact is that the prosecution has no capacity, which is also obvious from the report, relative to the number of items that come and will be accumulated every day. And that's one fact that we have to accept and react that this problem, in a way, solves or competent institutions to solve it. At the same time, I'm here to say that legal regulations, in my view, are one limiting factor in the work of the D.A. at the state level so that we can see the prosecution as citizens of this country and expect more from it than it can now provide. It's the third thing I've mentioned. Thanks to the constitutional structure of the state, thanks to a certain legislative regulation that exists in this country, the fact is that this Prosecutor's Office has a very limited power of its action, which is a limiting factor in achieving better results. Here, in my court, it's not just coordination activities. Is it possible, to put it this way, perhaps in one inappropriate way, you can write it to the cat about the tail if there is no prosecutor's office or subordination on the principle of certain responsibilities and certain actions and command functions? So these are all limiting factors that lead to, certain work, and therefore certain things that are said in the report. And I have to say that when you read this report, when, whom I must remind, I support it, so when you read it, when you talk to people who expect better results on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the effects that are being achieved, then we must, as parliamentarians, say that judicial reform in BiH is not complete and judicial reform in BiH is 64 limiting factor that has not been brought to the end. And that is why we, as Parliament, must do something to act on this plan. And not to be obliged, I propose one, normally, part of the conclusion or part of the conclusion, or whatever you want, to oblige our Ministry of Justice to determine what are the limiting factors for better work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court in general and to deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to take appropriate measures, including the change of legal regulations, so if you will, and to change the Constitution which is certainly a limiting factor for better work, for better work and for the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. Thank you very much. And I'm sorry, please, uh, I forgot one thing. As a doctor, I know, and that's a long time ago, this one, gave a saying, says the medal always has two sides. One side's her face, the other's her face. And I have to answer to this colleague of mine, who everyone, not in order to have a debate about something or to, uh, break a lesson over something. I don't see that the presidency that sent the request, uh, to the Republic of Serbia, to carry out the obligations it has by, which it has from the court's verdict in The Hague, I don't see that the Presidency gave it a sign that it doesn't believe in our prosecution but rather on the contrary. That our Prosecutor's Office can't on behalf of some others, who have an obligation, and Serbia has an obligation, can't solve their problems, does not seem to, especially in the territory of Serbia where we heard, in the exposure of my colleague Džaferović, that it is certainly a limiting factor and the work of our prosecution because the two neighbouring countries, which actually need the most to help us solve certain problems, have their constitutional limitations which, on their part, should be brought about because we can't change them to get better results of the prosecution of those people, were those criminals or those who committed crimes because we also see criminals giving up to 500 thousand marks, this, to let them go free and run away and can't pursue them anymore although they are convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10330	Thank you. Mr. Jerko Ivanković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10331	Dear chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests. I think that we are one of the biggest problems with the BiH Prosecutor's Office, in terms of how often we bring regulations that are illogical, regulations that are not in the interests of BiH citizens and then citizens of BiH, logically, when they have something against you, when they have something illogical, are prone to breach of such rules. And we are inclined to say, give this to the D.A. and the D.A. has his hands full. I think that we can prevent a lot of action, make sure that the regulations are logical, that they are in the interest of the citizens of this country and the violation of the rules will be far less and the prosecution will have far, far less work. If the citizens were to behave, which they probably will, because it's a very difficult situation for them to treat us like we do for them. So if you just took one piece of information that this Parliament has produced a deficit, in the last 10 years, over 50 billion marks, that it is a direct damage to BiH, that it is 500 thousand jobs that have gone and will never return and 500,65,000 unemployed have been damaged. Imagine if now all 500 thousand of them went to the D.A.'s office and told them in Parliament that, by their decisions, they had denied us a job. Now tell me what would happen in this prosecution I wouldn't, I wouldn't want to. (?) This is what I want to show all of us to make sure when it comes to legislation, and I think that prevention will have a great effect. I, and the People's Party, personally, work to improve, support the prosecution's work. We think we should give him more resources to do their job as high as possible, and I also want to draw attention because I have a very ugly experience with the D.A. and I think there's a possibility that working in the D.A.'s office can be further improved. One thesis that, in general, government in the public, actually, one story that has been going on in these areas for many years – when the rabbit fled from BiH and stopped him at the border and asked him where you were running, he says there are killing horses and I have to go fast. He says you're not the horse that's the problem. He says they kill you first and then they see what you are. I think the D.A.'s office has to take a little bit more care, spend a lot more energy in investigations, and then in the indictments, things will go a lot simpler, much more high-quality. So, the experience I've been through, I'm just going to get some details out of it. So, with a modest investigation, a year and a half of a exhausting trial and finally says mistake. It wasn't any of it. In this procedure, pressure on witnesses, a witness appears in the prosecution – he received a call as a defendant – when he comes he says sorry, it's a technical mistake, you're a witness. And you know what that means to a man when he gets a call that he's accused of some serious acts? Protected witnesses are hired, no investigation into these people to see who they are, and then later it turns out they're some blackmailers, etc. Another detail that remains very noteworthy in the prosecutor's final statement, after almost a year and a few days of the whole process, the prosecutor said that, as far as he is concerned, he has achieved the purpose of this process no matter what judgment it is, because now all BiH politicians will have to fear us because we will prosecute them if someone does something illegal. In the end, some prosecutor himself said: “It was not my goal to prove something but to create a powerful media campaign to intimidate someone, to warn someone about something, not taking care of the victims and the damages they had done to those who had served him for such a campaign. I would also like to point out, in the case of the signing of an agreement with certain defendants, that it is also necessary to take special care of it in two directions. One is that someone who's really guilty doesn't go through some kind of deal, and the other is to use repressive methods to make people who aren't guilty, that it's far, far more cost-effective to take the blame and pay for some damage than to be exposed to a very large torture. I hope that this information will also help the D.A.'s office to improve the quality of its work, and I hope that when we make the rules, we will also make sure that we help them preventively, and in particular to give them resources available, that they do their job in a quality way because they will make us a better society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10332	Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10333	Thank you. I will really just take a moment to take the opportunity when the BiH Prosecutor's Office is here to ask him, for the sake of the public, what is the current state of affairs of the Srebrenica Commission report, the famous Srebrenica Commission report? Is that report a priority or not? Let me remind you, therefore, it is a well-known report in which the Republika Srpska government, approximately 3 years ago, formed a famous Srebrenica Commission in connection with the July '95 events in Srebrenica. A year. The commission worked a year and a half, filed its report. The Republika Srpska government adopted such a report and asked the prosecutor: Is the report still or is it not a priority on, uh, resolving the issues contained in the report?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10334	Mr. Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10335	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, guests. I, of course, give full support to the work of this prosecution and the state court. And by the appearance of this state prosecutor's office and the state court, it seems to me that there have been conditions, and I want to believe that the conditions are still slowly being reached, that in these areas BiH, and probably beyond, finally ceases to be the thought of the prominent Serbian Prime Minister Nikola Pašić -- that the laws apply, that the laws apply only to opponents. We are witnessing that, in these 11 years after the war in BiH, there is a robbery of unprecedented proportions through privatisation, a robbery of donor funds, kidnappings in all possible ways and, with great respect, but my deepest conviction was that the cantonal, federal, entity prosecutors were deeply political, deeply influenced by politics and that, that the poverty had died for a sack of potatoes, and whoever stole the factory or sold the bank for 50 million marks, earned on it a successful businessman. Finally, by the appearance of the State Court and the State Prosecutor's Office, hope has returned to, in, amongst citizens, at least in the circle where I move and where I contact, there is a chance that there is a legal state in this area and that we are all equal before the law regardless of religious, national and other belongings. I just want this to be more in the form of a question, on page 27, the prosecutor boasted that one of the biggest organised crime cases in which a total prison sentence of 50 years was imposed. This would be more like a question. Did the Prosecutor's Office know about the Parliamentary Commission that this Parliament formed and abolished, which claimed that 8 billion and 400 million marks were not purposely spent, that the Federal Parliament also formed a commission that had established huge, huge amounts of money that had been unintendedly spent or, in public language, this was stolen. And it's just amazing that the D.A. didn't respond in these cases. Then what I would argue is that it gives up, this time discussing the prosecution's report, the prosecution's recognition, the information to give up recognition, because working with the capacity of 15 prosecutors plus the chief prosecutor and bringing to court the largest political figure, the state figure in BiH to court, is that it does not give hope 67 that in the year, or in the coming year, it will be better because the prosecution's capacity only increases from 16 to 25. What this Parliament should do is, or be the prosecution's initiative, that this prosecution expands with both capacity and potential to face crime and corruption more seriously and with the black market. I think I've talked about it enough, and I don't want to repeat myself. If 6 billion marks go into private pockets a year, and this is the way it runs, we'll be here, we're all at risk, we're at risk of citizens here, and there's a political elite, a political mob and an economic mafia that's actually going to become millionaires, and it's no wonder that we in BiH have a huge number of poor people and a small number of very wealthy people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10336	Thank you, Mr. Halilović. No more reports, so I'm closing the hearing. I gave up the debate, but still, I will ask only one question, this one, to Mr. Jurčević, of course, if he is in a position, of hundreds of these questions he has here, to explain to me how could it have happened that out of the total budget in the financial report, 433,000 remain neutral? Is it some capital investment, something that couldn't be spent, but the fact is that you have, of the 3 million total, over 15% of the neutral assets, and on the other hand you have a funding problem? So here I am concluding, of course, the debate and opening up the possibility for Mr Jurčević to address the MPs, possibly the comments, to answer some questions. I repeat what Mr Džaferović said – it is about the information this Parliament takes to know. Of course, this does not prevent us from supporting and in some ways not participating in the realization of the tasks, as they have called, strategic goals, etc. and these initiatives and ideas that I have here. Mr. Jurčević, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10337	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives. I thank you all for reading the report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Also, I thank you all today for having discussed and all the discussions that you have led to the report and to the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, personally, I consider them positive and well-intentioned, because I believe that we are all on the same path when it comes to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and when it comes to this honorable dom, that our goal is to fight all kinds of crime, particularly organised crime. The complexity and complexity of the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office is indeed enormous and I could, believe me, without any written text tell you two hours at least about this complexity and the weight that the Prosecutor's Office is meeting in BiH, because you know that it was an extremely young institution that started working on 01.03.2003 and when it was moved in, it was moved into the areas where the ruins and the semi-destructions were, as we built the institution, and 68 strengthened the Prosecutor's Office, and at the same time it was on objects and objects of all kinds. I must tell you that the BiH Prosecutor's Office, unfortunately, has such a wide range of criminal acts that indeed with these capacities, which you legislators give to the prosecution, we will not, likely, be successful or effective. I'm going to tell you in a picture that we have a leprechaun in the jurisdiction of criminal offences from 5 KM counterfeits to organized crime, through organized crime to war crimes. Gentlemen, it's an abnormally large beauty, and it's limiting factors. When we started working, we started working with four prosecutors, today we have a certain number of prosecutors. We in the BiH Prosecutor's Office have three departments. One department is the Department of War Crimes and the other department is the Department for the fight against organised crime, economic crime and corruption and the third department is the general department. I agree with Mr. Ivanković, what he said was just for the sake of his relationship, though, he should have said which one was the prosecutor, because I, as BiH's chief prosecutor from this place, am responsible and I am telling you that I am not behind the final words of that prosecutor who said so, because BiH's laws do not allow him to do so. I don't know if he said it, but here, I trust Mr. Ivanković. Your discussions are the most, as far as I could see here, focused when it comes to crimes of war crimes. Let me start with these difficult, more difficult questions of yours, and these are the problems of working on war crimes cases. From this place today and many years ago I always said that the problem of war crimes, i.e. the clearing up of war crimes, was in Srebrenica space. Srebrenica is number one when it comes to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and be sure of all the capacities we could give to clean up, detect and process perpetrators of war crimes committed in Srebrenica, we are doing it today, only on Srebrenica for a special team, it's team number 6 and on team six we have four prosecutors on that team. These are the maximum capacities we could, at this point, give and work somewhere around 20 professionals working in the BiH Prosecutor's Office with these prosecutors. As hard and complicated as it is, I'm not going to bother you with it right now, but here's just a figure of speech, let's just say that in two years' time we've managed to make 20 indictments against 30 people. And just take the information that the BiH Court ruled on all six cases, 6. We've listened to over 817 witnesses, it's abnormally labored and difficult, come up, come up with evidence that is valid for the verdict of these serious, serious crimes because there are standards far greater than, rather than for some other petty, sorry for what I'm going to say, more leprosy, more leprosy crimes. I also want to tell you that I am also going to share the concern of the BiH Prosecutor's Office that with such capacities as we have, limited, we will not respond to the task of time. But please don't, we accept part of the responsibility, I'm telling you, I mean us in the D.A., we accept that part of the responsibility, but we want to share our responsibility with you and tell you that if we continue with this kind of work, we won't get far. We won't. I believe it is necessary to bring this Parliament, to bring a state strategy to the work of war crimes cases. What does that mean? That means the state says what it wants, what are the tasks of BiH institutions? We know in the D.A.'s office what our assignment is. But what is the task and police structures, what is the task of governmental and non-governmental organisations, what is the task of religious communities, international organisations, etc., etc.? Why am I saying this? I speak for the simple reason that 69 is very, very complex, and it is not just the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office because it is the work of other law enforcement agencies as well. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH has formed a working group to just run an expert analysis that will answer the question - are there how many law enforcement agencies trained in the work of war crimes cases? On the case, I led the task force, and we were, where they were all, a number of prosecutors and a number of judges of all levels, from all over BiH, and police structures. I must tell you that the situation is catastrophic. This analysis, an expert, found that police of all levels do not have any department or department on war crimes cases. That prosecutors, other than the BiH Prosecutor's Office, do not have a department to work on war crimes cases. That the courts of all levels also do not have a governing council to work on war crimes cases, and all the salves are directed towards the BiH Prosecutor's Office. For these very reasons, I believe that a state strategy should be adopted and the state said – it takes so many prosecutors to work on war crimes cases. Now I'm going to do a little comparative, I'm really sorry to you, like Germany, you've read, you know, probably more than me, 40 years working on war crimes cases. She didn't finish them today. And put a comparison between Germany and BiH. She had a unique capacity at the state level -- over 300 prosecutors working on these cases, had about 2,000 administrations monitoring the work of these prosecutors, and in 40 years she did not solve the problem of war crimes. I'm asking myself a question in advance and I'm giving an answer, with capacities and the way it's prescribed and how we do it, we're not going to answer, answer this task. I ask you to discuss it, I don't know how and in what way to discuss it, but... to adopt a state strategy on the subject of war crimes. It is not just, not only creates the BiH Prosecutor's Office a complete problem, you create it, it is created by the UN tribunal and international organisations. We spent two years with the OSCE to determine what we knew in advance, that there was no extradition when it came to the perpetrators of war crimes. We stand at the stand that the perpetrators of war crimes in BiH should respond, because there is a crime committed. The place of execution determines both the real and local jurisdiction of both the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. No, the indisputable fact is that a huge number of those people who have committed war crimes are walking somewhere, whether in Croatia, whether in Serbia-Montenegro or around the world. For two years with the OSCE, we've determined the possibilities to see if there's a chance of their extradition. We knew it didn't exist because there are constitutional obstacles to neighbouring countries, and there are also legal obstacles when it comes to BiH. We said this was no longer a legal problem, this is a political legal problem that needs to be solved now by someone from BiH. Who needs to handle this? The answer is clear – the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, Parliament, to see that it is lobbying and that with neighbouring countries, to gain the political will of neighbouring countries, to eventually conclude trilateral extradition contracts or to seek other or different solutions. Since I have also seen, and I knew that there would be all the salva for war crimes, I have also sought solutions with people who deal with this problem, and that's why in Zagreb I said what I said, and I said, if this problem is not solved in this way to conclude any agreement, we will camp in a vicious circle, all the napkins, everyone will be good, condition, 70 I apologize to the term, conditionally speaking, good players but bad players and bad guys will be the ones working in the prosecutions and courts and working on this problem. In order for that to not happen, I pray the solution, I said that it may be one of the solutions to consider or to see, to form a regional court on the territory of the former Yugoslavia for these countries, since we have a coming strategy for the closure of the UN tribunal and according to that strategy to create a strategy for further working on these war crimes cases and to create a court where, and the prosecution, where judges and prosecutors from the former Yugoslavia will sit. They can also sit there with international judges and prosecutors and work on these cases. And normally it would be to create a single documentation centre, to have all the structures from The Hague tribunal, from all these law enforcement agencies and to be in one unique place. Well, no, I have to tell you this, so the tragedy is that in BiH and today, you all know that, by the basements, by private houses, I won't say in police stations, etc., there's documentation. It simply won't be delivered to the D.A. for whatever reason known to them. They cooperate with us as much as they think they should cooperate so that we are sometimes forced to take certain measures, using the powers laid down in the BiH Criminal Procedure Act. Here I have brought up this problem of war crimes. I mean, it would take a quality debate, which level, I don't know, you however you want, but we don't have, we get to the wall, we can't go on. We can only work with these capacities you gave us and make sure the prosecutors work day and night on these cases but the story will be the same, we won't be able to achieve much because our capacities are very, very limited. As far as this is concerned, this issue is about an order to conduct an investigation, I mean these are professional questions, I apologize to Mr. Križanović, because the Criminal Procedure Act, you voted on it, and you said that when the prosecutor determines and conducts the investigation and finds that there is no evidence, that there is a reasonable doubt, because only on reasonable doubt he is pressing charges, then he brings an order to suspend, to suspend the investigation, and that is so. I don't know what to do next. _________? I'm on my own. The law said, what do you mean by yourself? He doesn't bring himself, he doesn't conduct an investigation for himself, the investigation is being conducted to determine the facts to gather evidence that a crime has been committed. If not, it's normal to close the file. And the file closes by giving orders to suspend the investigation. So it's not just itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10339	Here you go, Mr. Jurčević.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10340	There was a question about these audit reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10341	A little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10342	Here, I'll be very brief when it comes to this review report. I want to say next. I think it's a good thing we have reports like that, but what fellow auditors say doesn't necessarily mean that there's a reasonable doubt that a crime has been committed. So today he's also the chief auditor, I think, and he said in his statement that it's not their job, but to determine whether there are certain, not criminal responsibilities, but some others, and then they're writing a positive or negative report. I don't know how, which is why you brought these reports directly to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I don't think that's a good way and a good step. Here's why, because these are, we prosecutors treat these reports as intelligence and based on intelligence we can develop an object to see if there's any basis for doubting that a crime has been committed. And to do that, we can't just do it ourselves. Then we have to deliver it to the agency that logistically serves the work of the prosecution, which is, in fact, the police, therefore, the police of the entity and the SIPA. And I think it would be more logical for all these reports to be delivered to the SIPAs and for the criminal police, based on these intelligence data, to collect evidence that a possible crime was committed, to document it, and to then file a report against that and that individual about the criminal offence, that's the logic of the matter, rather than the report being delivered to the prosecution. We've been working on these reports, we've been wasting a lot of time, we've been looking into it, we've found that there's no crime, and we've closed it normally, we've closed the case. So far, we've been reviewing the reports, we haven't found that there are any elements to the crime. Unfortunately, the prosecutors who are working on these cases haven't found and have closed, have closed this, uh, all these cases so far. When it comes to illegally acquired property. It is a problem in BiH and I see all the salves going towards the BiH Prosecutor's Office again. I mean, I'm not gonna say we're not co-responsible either. I, as chief prosecutor, normally advocate, wherever there is a basis for confiscation of the property illegally acquired, through open criminal proceedings, we propose and that property is taken away. It wasn't much, there was some money, it wasn't exactly shown, but somewhere around 400-500 thousand marks in the last year it was taken away and it was transferred to, to account, to account, uh, state. However, it might be good to ask the Court of Justice for one piece of information, as they have a reference for the execution of criminal and criminal sanctions and to see what they have done about the unlawfully acquired assets that have been seized by powerful and executive judgments. They're the ones who should, who should.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10343	We've been looking for that before.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10344	Did you get it, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10345	Well, we got something.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10346	Believe me, we're looking for that, too, but I'm not going to say there's no cooperation here, but the law doesn't say they're mandatory, and when they're not mandatory, then they don't deliver us, so we prosecutors miss it, too, we have no answer, we have a verdict, and we don't know if it's done until the end, whether it's done. Because that's not what execution prosecutors do, that's what courts do. I don't know if there were any more questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10347	It's just about those neutrinos.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10348	And our D.A.'s office. Yeah, yeah, eh. That's a very difficult question.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10349	Well, then, leave for another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10350	But I won't, here, I can, I can answer. You see, the BiH presidency signed a transition agreement with the staff of the Registry Office. We have made a strategic plan, and in the strategic plan, we have also foreseen the dynamics of the transition of administrative staff from the Register Office to the Prosecutor's Office for 2007, 2008 and 2009. However, I, you all know how to create the Budget in BiH and according to this creation, I have always asked for accounting: give you a little more money and predict, if someone thinks they have to cross in 2006, or in 2007. And it's like I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10351	So, these were some means of security.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10352	Yes, that's exactly what it is. And that's exactly what happened right now. In 2007 - 01.07. on the Budget of BiH, the letter and number cross 48 people, and I also don't know the Court of Justice even more. And these are the funds that were not spent in 2006, and now we're predicting them for 2007, and it just happened, someone's thought of it, it's got to be 01/07, and these people are going to cross now, but for them, however, we've provided the money.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10353	Thank you very much. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10354	And let me just tell you. The BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Sui Generalis Prosecutor's Office. I told the leprechaun of the crime. We in the D.A. have no co-ordination, which means we don't have commanding power against the cantonal and district attorneys, we don't have commanding power against either the republican prosecutor or the prosecutor, the Federation prosecutor, so you have that in mind. We've created such a legal space as it is and we're moving in it. It is difficult for us, it is not close to us, but help us to create, and I also think that the reform of the judiciary has not been brought to an end, that we should look together for how and how to come to create one judicial pyramid, as all normal, normal European countries do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10355	Thank you, Mr. Jurčević. Here we have now circled, so to speak, and our discussions and information and clarifications that Mr. Jurčević gave us. I suggest that we follow the recommendation of our Constitutional Commission, to take this information into account, and that we will support the realization of these objectives that the Prosecutor's Office, as part of this information, has given in the part that Parliament can do. Of course, the commission's report. Here, please prepare for the vote. Vote now. For the report, for the report. So, for the Constitutional Commission Report, we are receiving information, these recommendations and strategic objectives, this, which the Prosecutor's Office has stated. So, with 33 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention, I find that we have accepted the report of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which we receive to the knowledge of the prosecution's information and we support those 7, so to speak, the measure that the Prosecutor's Office predicted to implement in 2006-2010. We have within this item of the agenda, i.e. the proposal for a conclusion tabled by Mr Sadik Ahmetović, who proposes, namely to draw a conclusion on which he will immediately proceed, in the procedure of amending the Law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, which he will form, in addition to the special departments in these institutions, the genocide departments, started in the protected zone of the UN Srebrenica-Zepa, based in Srebrenica. Who can run these, Mr Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10356	The Department of Justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10357	Please, and you're on your way to the Justice Department. It's my job to put this proposal to a vote. Please, did you understand the essence of the proposal? Please vote now. 74 With 17 votes to, 12 against, without entity support, the proposal for a conclusion did not get the required majority. We have an agreement coming up, we don't have a member of the College, unfortunately, we'll get the alignment done within the prescribed Rules of Procedure. So we move to point twelve. Ad. 12. Report on the protection of personal data in BiH and on the work of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for 2006 The material for this item of the agenda, or report, you have received. You've also received a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10359	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a need to speak despite what you've got.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10360	Please, a little more patience, we'll be done soon, MPs, please, a little patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10361	As you received a report from the commission, a report from the committee on the bench to underline one thing that needs to be started immediately in BiH. So, we are now in BiH based on earlier laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10362	I ask the messengers for patience. If we're going to leave the session, here's the third, fourth MP, let's do it, brother, break, and we'll work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10363	When we talk about the protection of personal data, we have a personal data protection commission. Last year's law required the Council of Ministers to form a Personal Data Protection Agency. That agency hasn't been formed yet. The Commission, either by status or by capacity, cannot meet these obligations, we heard this today and from the president of the Commission. These are not people who are doing this kind of work professionally, and I just want to call on you, therefore, to support the Constitutional Commission's conclusion, which was unanimously adopted today, which, of course, accepts this report and asks the Council of Ministers to immediately engage in the establishment of a State Data Protection Agency in accordance with this Parliament last year, the adopted Personal Data Protection Act. That's 75, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-04-12-0.u10364	Thank you, Mr. Džaferović. Does anyone else need to talk? Here I am, if you don't mind from this place, I'll just say a few sentences. So, unfortunately, this report, in addition to the understanding and importance of this commission etc., did not give an assessment of the situation in this area, i.e. you cannot conclude from the report that things are in BiH, whether, whether this privacy is our protection and whether it is not etc. They explain this with insufficient public information that there is this commission, etc., while informing us that they have failed to establish a website etc. and that they had only two objections, i.e. two requests from citizens, etc. They, this report, suggest and state as a basic reason the non-implementation of a certain number of laws, primarily the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and the Central Record Act, where this is not the main, main Data Processing Centre still established. So, I join Mr. Džaferović in recommending that we accept the Constitutional Commission report, but here I am not bothering you now, there are a few more open questions here. It is unacceptable that such a structure does not have a website and does not communicate with the public etc., that we have not yet established that main data processing centre etc. So, but here's to not taking time, I will try, of course, in another way to initiate the implementation of these laws but let's make it clear that we accept, therefore, this, on the opinion of the Constitutional Commission which, which suggests that we adopt this report and the conclusion which obliges the Council of Ministers to, without delay, take over all activities and approaches instead of the Commission to establish a Personal Data Protection Agency. Please plead now. So with 26 votes for, without prejudice to, 5 abstentions, by a sufficient entity majority, we have accepted this report with the conclusion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is bound by the Council of Ministers to take action without delay to establish this Personal Data Protection Agency. Moving to the point, dot thirteen. Ad. 13. Proposal for a decision on the termination of MPs' term in the House of Representatives, namely Mr Vahid Heće and Mr Edin Mušić I don't need to explain, you know the overall situation regarding these two MPs. So let's take it in a row. Who's in favour of making a decision on the end of the parliamentary term to Edin Mušić? Vote now. With 24 votes for, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, we have reached a decision to determine the termination of the mandate for Mr Edin Mušić. 76 Now we have a vote on the same thing – the end of the term of office for Mr. Vahid Heći. Vote now. With 31 votes for, without, without abstention, we also made a decision on the termination of the term of office of Mr. Vahid Heći. Of course, we're going through procedure, as soon as possible, so to speak, to provide replacements at the House of Representatives. And we're left with a point fourteen. Ad. 14. Giving consent to the ratifications of these nine agreements.
