ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14401	I am opening the 18th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In addition to the MPs, we invited our regular guests from the BiH presidency and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who expressed interest in attending our meetings and representatives of certain NGOs. To discuss their reports, a meeting was called by a representative of the BiH institutions' audit office and representatives of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, representatives of the BiH Public TV Service and a representative of the Office for Appeals. According to the service report, I find that 35 MPs attend the session and I find that we have a quorum. The absence was justified by Adem Huskić, Halid Genjac and Denis Bećirović. I have an announcement that Reverend Lagumdžija will join us later. Before we move to a debate on the agenda proposal, I suggest we settle two previous issues. The first question concerns the Law on radiation and nuclear safety. After this law was adopted in a different text in both homes, at the 16th session we adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on the harmonisation of this law. A single error was later identified in the form of an excess of an amendment that was in the Report and was not subject to harmonisation. The Joint Commission has re-scheduled, removed that error, and delivered a corrected Reckoning Report. You are the new Joint Commission Report received for the purpose of informing about correcting the error. Please note this and the Law on radiation and nuclear safety has already been published with the agreed amendments. The second earlier issue concerns the motion for a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family, which Honored MP Vinko Zorić submitted on 3 December 2007. In accordance with Article 148(2), Article 148 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, the House should be made aware of whether it is necessary for the motion for a resolution to be considered previously by the committee in charge. If the House decides that this resolution does not need to be previously considered in the commission, it shall be automatically included in the agenda of this session. 2 I put it to a vote, on a proposal from the College and the Expansive College, that... this resolution is previously discussed in the committee responsible. We have enough time to adopt the 28th, when I believe there will be a next session without any problem, with the opinion of this committee, because I think everyone supports this resolution. I ask the House to prepare for the vote to refer this resolution proposed by honourable MP Vinko Zorić, the motion for a resolution on the fight against violence against women, to the commission phase. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! Please, a little patience. I hope these technical mistakes will be quick, because we have to repeat the vote? Please repeat this vote, prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! I find that "for" 34, there was no "against" and "abstained" – that this resolution went into the commission phase. We are now going to discuss the agenda proposal. You received a draft agenda for the 18th session with the invitation to the session. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the agenda is complemented by two points, and so on - The request of MP Jerka Ivanković to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of the account of the old foreign currency savings. This requirement is to be placed at the 127th point of the Rules of Procedure, which means that it is a mandatory point. The second is the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2007 to 31.8.2007. These changes were agreed on both the College and the Extended College of the House. You have received an updated draft agenda on the bench and I am opening a debate on the agenda. If there are no reports, I find that the 18th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Approval of the 16th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliamentary questions and answers; 3. The Commission’s report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures; 4. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on Sefer Halilović's proposal for a conclusion, proposed in the debate at the 16th session under the SDP's request for the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers; 3 5. The request of MP Jerko Ivanković to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of the account of the old foreign savings; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 7. Proposal for an internal audit law in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration – Law No 01-02-9-47-107 of 12.9.2007; 9. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with Report of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 11. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina – MP Drago Kalabić; 12. Proposal for a law on wine, brandy and other products of grapes and wine; 13. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Customs Policy Act – Proposer of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs; 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs; 15. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents for BiH, 16. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity – Proposer Ekrem Ajanović; 17. Proposal for a law on police structure in Bosnia and Herzegovina – MPs Drago Kalabić and Branko Dokić; 18. Proposal for a Code of Conduct for MPs and delegates – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 19. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Minority Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the appointment of members to the Ad hoc Commission on the appointment of three Ombudsmans in the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 21. Appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board of the Bosniak People; 22. Annual report for 2006 of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 23. A report on the work and business of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service, with the Management Board's work report; 24. Report of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' audit office on BHRT's 2005 and 2006 audit; 25. Report of the BiH institutions' audit offices on the audit carried out in 2006 of the following institutions (a) the institutions of the BiH Ombudsman, (b) the Commission for the property requests of displaced persons and refugees, (c) the Commission for concessions of BiH, 4 d) the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH, (e) the Office for Foreign Affairs, (f) the Central Election Commission of BiH, (g) the Office for Direct Taxation of BiH, (h) the Office for the Protection of Plant Health, (i) the Office for the Review of Appeals of BiH, (j) the Office for Veterinary of BiH, (k) the Office for Law of BiH, (dGS), (m) the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2006; 26. A summary report by the Commission on finance and the budget on the reports of the BiH Financial Institution's 2006 Financial Audit Office, with a proposal for conclusions and recommendations; 27. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, BiH police and state officials in peace support operations for the period from 1.3.2007 to 31.8.2007; 28. Information on the unauthorized production and marketing of intoxicating drugs in Bosnia and Herzegovina between 2005 and 2006, with trends and for the first six months of 2007; 29. Information from the Council of Ministers of BiH on the implementation of the conclusions of the 59rd and 73rd sessions of the previous House of Commons on the discussion of the Commission's proposal for a conclusion on human rights, immigration, refugees and asylum on the results of the resolution of the presentation of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of BiH and the Association of Decertified Officers of Republika Srpska – Proposer of MP Zlatko Lagumdžija; 30. Proposal for a conclusion of the Joint College of the two homes on the debate at the 7th joint session of both homes; 31. Proposal for a conclusion on the Information on the rationalisation of the DKP network in BiH – applicant for the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives; 32. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission for the establishment of foreign exchange savings for BiH citizens, laid down in the accounts of domestic banks and branches in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 33. Proposal for a conclusion on the allocation of the accumulated surplus income, presented in the Report on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution – Proposer of the Finance and Budget Commission; 34. Opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget on the Office’s materials for the examination of complaints, with a proposal for conclusions; 35. MP Denis Bećirović's initiative of 6 September 2007 in connection with a stadium under the White Hill; 36. Giving consent to ratification (a) the Agreement on Economic, Trade and Technical Cooperation between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the State of Qatar, (b) the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Rumunija on Co-operation in the fight against terrorism and organised crime, (c) the Agreement on Cooperation in Education, Culture and Sports between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Vlada of the Republic of Italy, (d) the European Convention on Citizenship, (e) the Agreement between the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Co-operation in 1995. As noted in the invitation to the session, because of the scope of the agenda, it is possible to sit for two days. So until we realize the whole agenda, that's why I'm asking you to keep an eye on us and we're wasting our time rationally in our debate. At the same time, I would like to inform you that it is quite possible for us to hold a special session after tomorrow's session of the 18th session, at which there will be only one item on the agenda Confirming the Chairmanial Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the duty to remind you that at the previous session, we have adopted amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. They are published in "The Official Messenger". The club presidents received this, however, the provision of Article 184 states that the procedure with the proposals of the laws and others already in the parliamentary procedure will be terminated according to the provisions of the current rules of procedure. You got that text, and I hope there's no confusion. If it does, we'll handle these things on the walk. And, first item of the agenda, we move on to the agenda, is Ad. 1. Journal of the 16th Session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14404	It is about this intervention: therefore, on page 5 under point A.5. The amendments to the Law on travel documents, there are no data on the number of votes "yes", "against" and "abstained", are only determined that this law has been adopted. So I think it is necessary to indicate how many votes “yes, ” how much “against, ” how many“ abstentions. ”
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14405	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14406	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to intervene on the 15th session minutes. And I'm really sorry that I'm doing it right now, because the next thing I know, it's been found in the record that I wasn't present at the session, and the real truth is that I was present at the session. And, in public, media went into the means of information in the report of the Centre of Civil Initiatives, a lie that we really don't need here, and that's already the second time 6 happens to go public: once through the website, now and through the website and through the media, the one that was present here. So Husein Nanić was present at the 15th session. The 15th session concluded that I was not and I really cannot read all the records in order and monitor the situation of the one who is obvious and check things that are clear and recorded. And because of that, I really do express my dissent with the way that whoever's doing these records works. For the past two times in my name are the things that destroy my authority and speak falsely of me as an MP and my work in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14407	Thank you. I think the remark Mr. Belkić said was standing. So, we'll make a correction about the results of the vote. What Mr. Nanić has made an observation, I think that every MP should also read the minutes because it is very important, and we will make sure that the technical service does its jobs in quality, although I think it works in quality. But maybe at the beginning,... maybe at the beginning of the session that you weren't present, so that you joined later, but we need to check that out. If that's the case, I don't mind making corrections in the 15th session. Is there anyone who might still be coming forward regarding this record... Here, it's already been fixed, and I'm getting a notice on the website that repairs and corrections have been made regarding the 15th-session record. Does anyone else have any objections? If you don't, please, I'm closing the debate on the record to prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 34, "against" was not, "abstained" was not. Ad. 2. MPs' questions and answers As you know, at the 17th session, we had no parliamentary questions and answers. For this session, a lot of answers to parliamentary questions have been gathered, and I will count them. They received answers to their questions: Mr. Niko Lozančić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 9th sessionLazar Mr. Šefik Džaferović, Rifat Dolić, Momčilo Novaković, Martin Raguž and Adem Križanović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 10th session; the honourable Member of the BiH Parliament, Drago Alajbegović, Adem Huskić and Jozo Kolegijum dom the Council of Ministers, asked questions asked at the 12th session; the Honorable Member of the Snježana Rajilić of the Central Bank and of the Prosecutors of BiH, asked at the 14th session; Sefer Bećirović of the Ministry of Security; Niko Lozančić, Slavko Prodanović, Rifat Dolić of the Council of Ministers; on the 14th and the issue of the Council of Ministers, Mr. As usual, let's first comment on the questions. Please sign in, and after that we will give the MPs the opportunity to ask new questions. Dear Ambassador Lozančić first, Jovičić, Dolić, Halilović etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14409	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I asked the Council of Ministers and the Regulatory Agency for Communications, and I asked: What is the justification of the Decision of the Regulatory Agency for Communication on the introduction of the collection of national roaming between three mobile phone operators in BiH? I've been given an answer to the Regulatory Agency's decision but I'm not the answer: what is the justification for introducing, making such a decision! And, personally, and after I've received my decision, I express my disdain. I don't think there's any justification for making this decision because I think this decision allows the Regulatory Agency to charge BiH mobile operators for the poor quality of their services to be charged by citizens, instead of making extra profits to the same incomes that they make between themselves compensate for the poor service they provide. That is why I am asking the Council of Ministers and Regulatory Agency to reconsider this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14410	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14411	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, respected guests, as you know, I have already asked questions at House of Representatives' 2nd session about the national structure of employees in all BiH institutions. I got an answer I'm not happy with for more than one reason. First, I didn't ask for a systematization by various ministries and agencies, but a national structure, I repeat, with the name and last name who is sitting there. How will I, for example, be pleased if there are only three names in the Ministry of Security: so the minister, his deputy and secretary of this ministry, 8 and the press of these days is buzzing that this ministry has been cleared from Srbin as far as the governing structure is concerned. So, I could do it now, but I don't, of course, have the right and I don't want to abuse the time to say for two days that these institutions are unserious. Let's just say, I get one answer: Director! Well, is he sitting there alone? Does he have a secretary? Does he have a driver, does he have associates, does he have anyone alive? But that's why I can... praise myself, of course, for some institutions, where they've exceeded the funds, so some of them say they're all different. Couldn't the Council of Ministers oblige all the agencies to deliver them on a uniform basis? Either they don't understand me, or I'll keep saying the same thing - name and last name, who's sitting there! Well, it's not a state secret as long as there's a ministry or an employee agency and who's there, with a name and a last name, I repeat. But what I can really say commendably, here's an example, here's an example of the Joint Service and this Parliament and the secretary of Mr. Aljoša Čampara. Look at his report, it's all clear - who's employed, when he's been employed, since he's been sitting, whether he's received a new competition by contract. That's the kind of report I'm looking for for for all the institutions. Such a report should be given to this people not to call me people every day that everyone here is fighting for the consistency of the people on the '91 list. It's such a imbalance in all some institutions that it's simply incomprehensible. Will we respect the state-level constitutionality of the people or will we just rely on what is happening in the municipality of someone in RS where it is of course not respected or in the Federation. This is where we have to start. That's why I repeat the same questions. I am not satisfied with the response of all BiH institutions. I want to get an answer - name and name, his nationality, not to write to me a citizen, because... it is understood that we are citizens, but whether we are Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat or others. I want a report like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14412	Thank you. Next: Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14413	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, in the time between the two sessions, I have therefore received answers to four parliamentary questions. With three answers, I am pleased with this opportunity to thank the Governor of the National Bank, the Director of Elektroprivreda and the Minister of Human Rights and Refugees for the answers delivered. On one parliamentary question, asked at the 14th session of the 6.9th, I received two answers. Namely, I requested an official correspondence from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office in BiH with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, the Hague Tribunal and the BiH Embassy in the Republic of Croatia in the case of Fikret Abdić in the time of 7 August '95. By the end of 2002. I received an answer from the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which says that by the logic of things they did not exist at the time and do not possess such a correspondence. I, among other things, asked the BiH prosecutor's office for an answer, which is the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Bihac, not the BiH Prosecutor's Office, so I didn't even ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office a question. I received a second reply from the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers who collected correspondence from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and delivered a total of 10 letters. Unfortunately, I have to say that I only got part of the correspondence because I own memos on these nine relationships that I didn't get in response. For me, it's a question of why I didn't get all the correspondence or some memos... went private with the institution's signature. So, I ask that my answer to the question be completed as I asked in the parliamentary question asked at the 14th session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14414	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14415	Dear Chairman, I have received an answer to the parliamentary question I asked the director of the Directorate for indirect taxation to Mr Kemal Čaušević. Namely, just a moment to remind you: I am on two occasions trying to get Mr. Kemal Čaušević to answer the question of evasion... between 5 and 6 million KM that have disappeared, actually... that have been stolen, and Mr. Čaušević for the second time tries to sell the fog and I ask him one thing, he corresponds completely to the other. I got almost 100 pages of questions... the answer, almost 100 pages, and the other one was the question, and the answer to the first question was even bigger. In answer to the question, however, there is no answer to questions in this memo. In his answer, Mr Kemal Čaušević did not answer my question at all: Why did none of the customs workers in the Customs Exhibition of Sarajevo answer in the case of Omerta d.o.o. Sarajevo and it is not true that Mr Kemal Čaušević stated: that the Sarajevo Customs Station referred the requirements to, quote: a random choice, and that... for this reason it does not begin to run out of 10 months, which could deprive the right to preferential treatment and to pay for import duties. I see the reason for such a claim in the fact that the Customs Office of Sarajevo, by letter No 9028/05 of 17.11.2007, expressed (under the name of the alleged) 'justified suspicion of the authenticity of the certificate of origin of EUR 1' and targeted... EUR 1 on the verification of the so-called so-called 'S shopping tours.' As proof of the claims, which is obvious and clear to people who, as Mr Čaušević put it, 'do not understand this', I quote, 'complex and professional problem', also a letter from the Directorate for Direct Taxation to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations... since 30.12.2005 and a letter of 8.5.2006 signed by Assistant Mr. Čaušević for Customs Mr. Bogdan Novaković, in which I quote: 'The Regional Centre of Sarajevo suspects that it meets the prescribed conditions for obtaining status of goods originating in the Republic of Turkey and the application of preferential treatment for which I am seeking verification'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14416	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Prodanović. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14417	Mr. Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I am pleased that the Council of Ministers has answered my asked question since 6.9 this year concerning the work of the Implementation Unit of the Rehabilitation Project of the Psychiatric Clinic "Podromanija Sokolac“, but I would like to point out that the Council of Ministers has not resolved with this response a very significant commitment which came out as the public is familiar... before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, by decision of the Court of Justice of 11.10.192005 in the case of Fikret Hadžić v BiH. BiH has committed to moving... convicts/patients under whom a mandatory psychiatric treatment measure has been imposed into an appropriate facility in BiH, no later than 31.12.2005. So, two years have passed since BiH's commitment to the Human Rights Court's decision in Strasbourg, and nothing has been done since the initiative, although the Swiss Confederation's Government's funds amounting to 2 million and 800,000 Swiss francs are operational and are in the account of the BiH Finance Ministry. I believe that the Council of Ministers should urgently speed up arrangements with the entity governments, that the BiH Ministry of Justice must do as quickly as possible to realise this obligation by which the settlement is, therefore, accepted by the settlement and that, in that sense, the Council of Ministers must consider, in addition to the conclusions, the need to amend the Supervisory Board of the Implementation Unit. I believe that, among other things, this body has a significant responsibility along with the Ministry of Justice. Psychiatric patients... therefore, convicts who require psychiatric supervision and treatment, according to the court's decision and according to the public assessment, and not only them but all psychiatric patients live, or are treated in tragically poor conditions in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14418	Thank you. We've got a sequence. Dear Ambassador Jukić, then Bahtić, then Raguž, in that order. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I, I've seen you, Reverend Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14420	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14421	Let me just tell you, I didn't give you my word. So, I saw you and I wanted to, I wanted to tell you that on this list, which I read, I didn't find you to get the question, and I thought you answered the new question, but on this list, it means you're gone. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14422	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14423	Then we should... as an intervention put in. You know, so I haven't overlooked you, I've seen you and you can get your word right after MEP Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14424	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just answered the question so, here, if... that was the problem, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14425	I'd like to ask you first to allow those who have received the question. Here, dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Namely, I, as you know, have referred a question to the Council of Ministers: What will I do about a very unprofessional, very unprofessional catalogue at the National University Library in Sarajevo where some writers, Srbin and Hrvat, are catalysed to write in Bosnian language? I didn't get an answer for that, and it's been over two months. I must say that there is also, that the media in Sarajevo have condemned such an attempt by the National University Library in Sarajevo to counterfeit a very important issue. I'm just using the term... which I read in Sarajevo media that this is a kind of counterfeiting of the history of literature itself and it's asking a really very open question whether the University Library in Sarajevo has misused the national sign and is not using it in terms of being a state library, but in fact, it's a library that seems to only advocate what belongs to one of the three constituent peoples in BiH. This is what I think, after all the questions I've asked, with a very important, very important question, and because of that, if I don't get an answer by the next session, I'm going to start a congregation debate on this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14427	Thank you. We'll write another emergency from the service, even though we've already written an emergency for that question and then you'll decide how to proceed. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14428	Thank you. 12 I'm satisfied. I got answers to most of my questions but I'm not happy with the answers when it comes to the CIPS. I fully support my colleague Jovičić. He was just having a discussion, looking for a national staff of the institutions. I asked the CIPS what is the national composition of CIPS employees? The answer is incomplete: 50%... of the employees of Serbian nationality. We know there's a large number on the set, and now the procedure is set to take, indefinitely, and then the percentage will be even more drastic, so it'll be 65%, and all the other 35%. Please take care of this when it's filled in... CYPS. We know that the CIPS is a brain, a memory of all BiH citizens' data, and that's very important. I said, "Who's been working on the databases since when?" I got the answer - it's true. They work four people, they are all the same nationalities: Srđan Nogo, Predrag Sančanin, Dubravko Ilić and Darko Ljuboje. Then I wonder how our personal data leaks! I asked: How did the CIPS of its resources perform construction works to expand the space for making license plates at the Center for... in Banja Luka? I got an answer saying I was right. And it writes in response that, allegedly, the specific investment was made with the consent of the owner of the space, meaning with the consent of the owner of the space and that it was run in financial books as an investment... facility. However, he says: not with the agreement of those who signed the contract, means... there is no Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH. I find that completely illogical. This is where you need consent... The Council of Ministers, the resolution ministry, as it is 22 thousand marks, invests in a foreign facility, increases the number of square meters, the leases increase. So, you can't agree with the kind of guy who's betraying private space. It's out of my mind. Do you ever run a list and write-off cards, cards as well as canceled ID cards and driver's licenses, who does that check-out? The answer shows that the Directorate has never yet executed a list of cancelled ID cards and driver's licenses, given that they... are returning to the CIPS. Also, there has never been an inventory of the listing and counting of the shrimp cards or any personal document, which opens up the possibility of manipulation, because in conditions like this, in our country, on all sides, they accuse us of having some terrorist documents in BiH. It's unacceptable, especially, that a shrimp card won't be kept permanently. So if they have no records, no inventory, no controls... indicated, no safety, then there can be no space or abuse. In the matter of getting hand scanners, I got an answer, which shows that there was an abuse. Things obtained five times more, I don't mind, but hand-scanners for fingerprints that have been paid... 400 KM are bought so that we now... – the fingers that were taken from us when we replaced our ID cards – we can't do anything. They have to get a new one. You know who was doing it, who was getting it, what company was our supplier. There are employees on the payroll according to a contract of work that has huge incomes in... employees there are also in the CIPS. I think that's the kind of thing we need to see and that we need someone doing it, not those who work for private companies and state firms. So much and thank you. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14429	Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14430	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I asked 13.6. the following representative question: How long has the investigation into the death of Ivo Bartulović, a returnee to the Banja Luka resort of Barlowci, and, secondly, as part of the same, what is the current state of security... with particular emphasis on the safety of the returnees? And I can say that I'm mostly happy with the answer, but it's very important that I say some things about this answer. So, as far as the answer to the first question is concerned, I received clear information from the RS MUP where the perpetrators were arrested and... where all the necessary actions were taken which is encouraging, but with the answer to the second question, which is the de facto state of security related to the implementation of Annex VII, regardless of the significant efforts I have received here, I cannot be satisfied to the end. I'll tell you why. Here, related to the RS, the actions police and the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia took from the formation of certain police stations to different organisations related to settlements where the most pronounced were returns, but it is clear that there is no substantive assessment in this response, which is why, and in what way, and what dynamics, and what is all done for prevention. There is a threat to the personal and human freedoms of returnees, and also from the Federation I received a review of all counties, i.e. cantons, and I will single out only one example that is related to Unsko-San County where, for a year and more days after the murder of the return of Trkulja Marija in the settlement... The sanski most, no perpetrators were detected. So there's still a lot of things... that should be done on simple more effective measures and training all political structures in order to bring this issue to a level where it would guarantee the safety of all returnees. And I answered, especially for the word, because the Ministry of Security was only here by postman and de facto physically... connected two reports, this RS MUP and the Federation MUP, didn't give a single assessment and judgment of the state of security, and I think it had to be done and that it should be... an integral part of the response, means that the Council of Ministers also assumes their part of responsibility from their responsibilities. Second, dynamics? Four months were due to be answered by Parliament, and Parliament has two months of receiving it on the agenda. Six months, so that dimension cannot be justified. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14431	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two reasons to comment on this answer. I will remind you that this is about the answer to my question about the text of the BiH Anthem. 14 The first reason I came forward was to express my satisfaction with the answer given by the College of this House, within the prescribed deadline and very correct, and another reason to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that I had to include the College of this House in order to get an answer. I would remind you that this house has brought an initiative to conduct a complete procedure to bring about the text of the BiH Anthem. That was over two and a half years ago. And the response that came from the justice ministry states that the Council of Ministers, so 14 months ago, 31.8 last year, tasked the BiH Ministry of Justice to prepare and deliver a decision to the Council of Ministers on the establishment of an anthem selection commission, etc. Here you see, so this is one example of how the conclusions are carried out, the decisions made by this home. So, I'm satisfied with the answer, I'm not satisfied with the answer, with the relationship to this issue, and I'm particularly suspicious of what is said in response that this job will be completed by the end of the fifth month next year and you see, more than a year and a half to even establish this commission that needs to implement it. I will... surely trouble this already early next year and ask and come up with an initiative to establish a continuous practice of reporting this commission's work towards this home, because it is the conclusion of this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14433	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14434	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased with the answer, but I am terribly dissatisfied with the situation in the areas to which my question and answer were concerned. BiH has a mass of unsettled relations with its neighbours, starting with property-legal, social boundaries, and I don't hear any government activities on the plan. We should develop regional co-operation, and we do not have concluded border contracts with either Croatia or Slovenia or Montenegro. We have no agreements on property-legal relations, except with Macedonia, no country with the former Yugoslavia. The mass of workers from BiH cannot, who have worked in other republics in the former Yugoslavia, be able to exercise their rights and I do not see any activity of the state authorities, in particular the Council of Ministers, on the plan of fighting for the protection of our own, as if it were not our own, property interests in those countries and the rights realised and the rights of our own, our people. The issue concerned an asset-legal agreement, the truth with the Republic of Croatia, and the contract has led to a certain level, but it seems because of the disagreement within us, in BiH, because of the RS' stance, we do not have the conclusion of the contract. I ask the Council of Ministers, if we want to have good regional co-operation, if we want to go all the way through the European way, to stick to the daily urgency on these issues of BiH's relations with our neighbours. It is not possible to have good relations, and we all advocate a declaration of good relations, rather than allowing a contract to be concluded on property relations, social security, borders. So, I'm looking for a daily update of the Council of Ministers on these issues and I want you to bh. The public knows what is going on here at all times and I ask for the intervention of our bodies through the European Commission and European institutions, because this 15 issue, finally 15 years after independence, must be resolved with neighbours, these issues, not the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14435	Thank you. I have registered in order: Honorable Ambassador Novaković, Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14436	Dear Chairman, members of the College, fellow Members of Parliament, I must say that I cannot say that I am not satisfied with the answer, but I am not satisfied with what it says in the reply. Namely, I asked the Council of Ministers to provide me with a list of assets the Socialist Republic of BiH is titled, to which BiH institutions pay a rent from the Budget of the BiH Institutions. And then I got an answer that was very interesting that, let's say, the Constitutional Court, now that I'm not speaking means enroled in the ZK, etc. etc. – used by the Presidency, the Constitutional Court of BiH, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and some bodies of the Federation. Well, then, real estate on the street. Valter Perić uses the Supreme Court of the Federation of BiH, then real estate on Kranjcevic Street. 24. Home of writers, then real estate located on the street. The coast of Mak Dizdar uses the Federal Ministry of Education and Science, and then the property used by the BiH Federation's MUP, then the Higher Educational School of the Federation of BiH, or Canton of Sarajevo. So, a number of properties in Sarajevo owned by the Federation of BiH. I also received three properties that are unknown to the current user, i.e. the answer says: There is no information about the current user, and one answer says: There is no information whether it is privatized. I am interested, and I would like to hear the answer: - Does the property now used by the Federation of BiH pay the rent? So, whether BiH Federation institutions are paying rents to the Budget Institutions of BiH, given that this is not clear here and also, I ask that the data that is not presently available be determined. I believe it's possible to determine, if anything, whether something is privatized or not. And in fact, here it is, now in the next table we have a total of 2 million 797 thousand 912, 95 KM (2,797,912,95 KM) in the name of the BiH institutions' accommodation. So is it possible for some of these institutions to be placed in areas where the BiH Federation institutions are now located, so that this kind of lease is not paid? Given that, I say, the fact is.....that your relations are, to say the least, not solved until the end. Thank you very much. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14437	Thank you. Since it's a supplemental response, I mean in writing, that you should provide us with your request. Dear MP Alajbegović is next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14438	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14439	Thank you. We've exhausted all those who came forward with the answer to the question. And now we go in order of those who have applied for new questions. So, honourable MEP Erić, so Bahtić, Nanić, Mehmedović, etc. Jukić, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14440	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, esteemed guests, we did not understand each other. I was just about to ask my question asked by the BiH presidency, which refers to the Treaty between the Serbian Orthodox Church and BiH. I didn't get it, and please make sure you check it out. Given that when we adopted the Treaty with the svet stolica, those two contracts were supposed to go parallel, we agreed to adopt this one and this one would be over soon. As far as I'm concerned, all the papers are in the Bureau, so let's just see what's up with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14441	We have assurances from the Bureau that this will be over for the next session. The next came Ambassador Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14442	So my question is addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. - What will the BiH Council of Ministers do to ensure - and what is the legal obligation - coverage with a quality signal of public tv services throughout BiH? For a long time, however, there has been no BHT1 signal in large parts of western Herzegovina and western Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the FTV signal is very poor quality, so citizens in this area are deprived of the rights and opportunities to monitor the programs of these two public tv services. The signal of the third Public TV service, RTRS, is also not available in this area. And at the same time, the first two listed public TV services have been running around 15,000 requests these days with competent courts for forced collection of tv fees. This is what I'm talking about in the Western-Herzegovina County area, which is about two-thirds of the home address holder. I ask, therefore, the question or question in the context of this question: 17 - With which right, is it logical, is it possible, is it possible, that someone is being sued and is forced to charge a tv tax, and the service is not at all possible to deliver, or is it not supplied, a service and is not possible to consume it in this area? As it is a large number of requests for forced payment, I think this is a problem and that the Council of Ministers, of course, through certain institutions and in the way possible, that this issue should be addressed. I want an answer as soon as possible, and even today, I don't know, I think it's 22/23. The agenda item concerns the work of public tv services, so there will be an opportunity to talk a little bit about this problem under these points.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14443	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Alajbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14444	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have one question for the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and that is: - How many charges have been filed on charges of bribery and corruption in BiH, and how many cases have been received and rejected as unfounded? Please report for 2006 and 2007 with all relevant parameters, given the fact that two days ago we had a Day of Fight against Mity and Corruption and by the NGO sector we received very alarming information about the high rate of bribery and corruption in BiH, especially regarding the procession. At the same time, I am initiating an initiative towards the BiH government to plan for 2008 funding for science, particularly in terms of helping design projects for applications for EU-funded projects. Since these projects and their preparation for the application require at least 10,000 euros in funding, in fact one huge financial potential is practically not possible and is not available to the scientific public in BiH because of the absence of funds to prepare and apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14445	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14446	I thank you, Chairman. I'd like to take the opportunity to ask two questions today to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. First question: Since BiH signed a visa waiver agreement with the European Community on 1 January 2008, and in view of... the fact that, when there was no relief, a large number of our citizens have submitted visa applications, it is expected that now, after the entry into force of this agreement, there will be even more demands. Given that 18 in front of the embassy are long lines and waitings all night and day, not all, where individual embassies have the highest visa requirements and indeed one inappropriate relationship with BiH citizens seeking visas, I ask the question of the minister: - In whose jurisdiction is the setting of technical procedures for the submission of visa applications, and what will the ministry do to technically correct the way the applications are filed in order to reduce the rows and lengths of waiting in front of the embassy? The next issue is also for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Presidency: Since BiH as a member of the UN has highlighted its candidacy to elect a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the 2010-2011 term, which is a major challenge in the conduct of our country's foreign policy and requires the launch of all institutions from the Presidency, Parliament, the Council of Ministers and diplomatic representations of BiH, BiH is given the opportunity to participate in the world government and make its contribution, and to make its contribution to a more stable world that is developing in peace, and to finally get into the situation of improving our reputation and being the only country from the Eastern European group in that body after years of the Security Council's agenda. The fact is that BiH was not a member of any of the UN's important bodies until this year and, only by election of a member of the Human Rights Council in May this year, became more active in the UN system. One of the ten seats for the non-permanent members of the Security Council belongs to the Eastern European group of countries, and in addition to BiH, Poland also pointed out its candidacy. I ask the question of the Minister and the BiH Presidency: - What are they or what will they do specifically to successfully end the campaign and BiH become a non-permanent member of the Security Council, since as an opponent we have Poland, which is already a full member of NATO and the EU, and has many advantages over BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14447	Thank you. Dear MP Bahtić, pa Mehmedović, Kadrić, Lozančić, Dolić, Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14448	For the Council of Ministers, Ministry of Security: - Which holders of executive and legislative authorities and officials under the law have the right to personal escort and security? How many employees are engaged in these jobs and how much it costs BiH citizens, i.e. Budget? I've been asked by more citizens from different... cities to ask this question, because citizens are so irritated at visiting some of our politicians, city officials: as many escorts as if the President of the United States is coming, not some politician! Believe me, the city is blocked, the city is blocked, life is blocked for a few hours. It irritates the citizens so much, it irritates me. What are these politicians afraid of if that people chose them? He fears those who choose them, fear them! I'm asking, I'm going to ask that question in entity, and believe me, I have that information, the exact information, that one politician writes to himself an anonymous letter threatening, anonymously threatening -- to strengthen his own security, he writes to himself, he's so sick! And, one, when he goes there for a visit, he asks the police to meet him there. It's all costing these citizens. And in Sweden were prime ministers, coming to work on a bike. And that's why I'm going to put this through the MPs to the federal parliament and the state and see how many people are hired here, how much and how much this 19 costs, and see who our politicians are, who are afraid of their people. There are also light examples, believe me, among politicians, our officials who avoid such things and that is very..... so much, nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14449	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović. Here you go. Please, quiet a little.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14450	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short question, and I refer it to the Commission for the Review of Citizens of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14451	Please, let's talk a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14452	The question is: - Has the Commission for the Review of Citizenship of BiH ever audited BiH's acquired citizenship in Brcko District, and who is the name and last name and when it is audited, because according to some sources, it has been available to data that around 7,000 citizens who have won BiH citizenship are being managed in Brcko District, and that necessary documents could be obtained on the streets of cities neighbouring our countries. And if it wasn't a citizen review, when will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14453	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kadrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14454	I thank you, Chairman. At the 9th session of the House of Representatives, held on 23 May of this year, I asked the following question: - Is the Law on Holidays published in the Official Journal of the SRBiH, issue 2/92? I referred the question to the Council of Ministers, and I didn't get an answer until today. This question is therefore being renewed and I expect a written reply within the deadlines set by this Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Thank you. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14455	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14456	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have one parliamentary question. I am asking the question of Foreign Trade Minister at the BiH Council of Ministers Mr. Puhalac and Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation of Mr. Kemal Čaušević: - Which motivated the change in the procedure for customs clearance of goods at the border crossing of the Hukic hill near Velika Klamude from the end of July of this year, which has resulted in a multiple extension of the period of customs duty, an enormous increase in customs costs, the harassment of importers and carriers at the border and a mass reorientation of importers to others and more than 100 km from customs offices. Why is no entry and customs clearance allowed across the Hukic mountain border crossing and even the exit to empty fuel tanks, and why has the border crossing of the Hukic mountain not been granted the status of the first category assigned to it by the KAFAO project to date? To ask this question, I have an application and authorisation from 68 importers and carriers and nine forwarding houses from all over BiH, especially from the Bosnian province. By the end of July of this year, the procedure for customs clearance of goods at the border crossing was carried out by means of a process of recording, declaring and customsation following the examination and taking place at the border crossing of the vehicle with the goods under escort, under customs escort, forwarded to the terminal and there being a process of recording, declaring and customs. The entire customs procedure – from total registration, from entry registration to customs – lasted a maximum of three hours and cost 90 KM. Since the end of July of this year, the procedure has been changed and, apparently, the carrier comes to the border where normal border control is carried out, then by his own phone calls the freighter who comes to the border crossing, takes the papers from the carrier and returns to the customs terminal, makes accompanying papers and returns to the border crossing with them again. The customs officer is trying to connect to the server and it can last more than two hours and eventually quit. During that time, the truck stands at the border and produces traffic and intervention from the Croatian side to unblock the trucks, after which trucks are escorted to the customs terminal and carried out further customs, further... customs duties. This procedure usually lasts six hours now, and often over ten hours and costs an average of over 190 KM. Because of this phenomenon, there is, therefore, a massive detour of this border crossing and going to other border crossings that can be up to 300 km away, but there is faster and cheaper customs. This relationship is largely the result of a poor internal organisation in Customs exhibiting the velik Kladuša, but more and more of those who rightly doubt the intentions and intentional obstructions of the Customs Exposition and the struggle within various forwarding lobbys, which, ultimately, under the observation of irrationality, can lead to the idea of abolishing the Customs Exposition. This scenario has already been tried and seen once, and its realization would have had devastating consequences for the overall economic activity in the Cazin region and beyond. Personally, I cannot find rational reasons that the entrance and customs of tanks with fuel is not allowed at the border crossing of Hukića hill near Velika Kladuma, or even the exit of empty tanks that go for fuel in Croatia. Instead, the tanks are imperatively directed to the border crossing of Izačić, which is over 100 km away from that border crossing and, in addition, from Karlovac and in return for all! 21 I pray that a written answer be given to me, that I may meet with the same one who spoke to me to ask this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14457	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14458	Since there have not been any of these parliamentary questions long ago, I have raised three or four questions, so I will only go through them for a moment, and I will deliver them in writing and hope to receive answers. The first question concerns... is addressed to the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH, that is to say to you: - When and why so far is the decision of this House, as the highest body of the BiH legislative authority, to conduct a direct TV broadcast of the meeting of this House of Representatives? I don't think this needs to be explained. The second question, i.e. two other short questions, has been addressed to the foreign trade and economic relations minister, and concerns those questions I asked to Mr Čaušević, which he will not answer, i.e. I ask him one thing, he tells the other. - Did they also receive an act of the Directorate for indirect taxation from 30.12.2005 and what they did under those acts? I would also ask the Parliament Assembly's competent office to provide my first and second parliamentary questions with complete documentation on these issues to the Ministry, in order to have full insight into this issue that I have detected through my parliamentary questions, which the director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation obviously will not give an answer. I also ask the Parliament Assembly's competent service that my parliamentary questions, these two parliamentary questions, which I have asked the Director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, Delivery to the SIPA Director and the Attorney General, in order to determine criminal responsibility. The second question, a brief question on the request for the Board of Directors for indirect taxation, i.e. for the chairman, Mr Piter Nikola, as well as for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić. On 8.12.2007, the term of office of director of the Directorate for indirect taxation to Mr Kemal Čaušević expired. It was appointed at the 32nd meeting of the Council of Ministers, 8.12.2003, and the decision was published in "The Official Journal of BiH", No 44/03. The Law on the Indirect Taxation System "The Official Messenger", number 44/03, in Article 11, requires the Director to be appointed for a period of four years. How are the members of the 9th? The law provided for the Director to appoint a Council of Ministers and the Management Board to serve as an electoral body, please answer me: 22 - What have you foreseen so far in the selection of the Director for the Direct Taxation Directorate? And two short questions to the Minister of Justice Bariša Čolak and Sredoje Nović that I will deliver in writing to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14459	Thank you. Maybe on the first question today we'll have a chance to get an answer when we discuss the tv system. The following came to the discussion, or to the question, Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14460	Thank you, Mr. President. The public was informed a few days ago of another robbery, this time at Sarajevo International Airport. We have heard from many officials and from law enforcement agencies that it is a highly professional, well-organised and top-notch robbery. I ask the Ministry of Security: - What has he done, what is he doing and what is he going to do to enable our law enforcement agencies to fight well organized criminals highly professionally and organised? On this occasion, we were informed that several bags of money, some 2.5 million currencies, were taken away. I ask: - How did the money bags find themselves at the International Airport and does this mean that daily bags of money come out of BiH. Based on which regulations are allowed and, if so, who is responsible to protect such shipments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14461	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14462	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. One question for you in the College of the House of Representatives and Initiatives. The question is: 23 - Have you considered introducing internet television into this building that would allow for a much more effective monitoring of assembly sessions and, if not, here are the proposals and initiatives, however you like, to consider it as soon as possible and to introduce it, to be like other parliaments, and to make it mandatory to be in those busiest places in this building, such as the hall, such as the pub, like the restaurant. And second, the second question is: - Have you considered and when you're going to do this screen here, which we look at all day long, much more efficiently, that we have much more information on it than we have, and there might be information, here, about these things that we've been doing a little bit bit more today. Here we need to see who applied for the discussion, when he applied for the discussion, what order of debates, to measure the time of discussion or those interventions that are limited to the Rules of Procedure. So, if I didn't add up, with one small software intervention, I believe that it's technically possible to introduce all of this, which would make it much easier for you to hold sessions, and for those of us sitting on this other side, it would allow better monitoring and better preparation for the discussion, when we're ready to discuss. And my second question was addressed to the BiH Presidency, who I ask to provide me with information on whether they analysed the statements by the president of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesić, made at the International Conference of the Balkan Crossfires held, it seems to me, this 4th month in Brussels, where he directly interfered with his very inappropriate statements in BiH's internal affairs? His statement that the existence of the RS minority is an introduction to the disintegration of the country is a harsh interference in BiH's constitutional legal order. I don't want to mention any other big words he said at the conference, for the simple reason that I don't want to bring it into relations between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, with which BiH, I hope I share the opinion of all, wants to have very good relations as one of the three very important neighbours of BiH. I also ask the question: - Did the Presidency raise many unresolved issues,... many unresolved issues of BiH citizens who have been avoided or expelled from Croatia, and these are issues of their property, labour regulation, pension regulation issues and many other issues. I am here especially undermining and asking the president: what will he do... when it comes to many citizens who were born in Croatia, and this is the Serbian nationality which, because of the laws of the time, because their parents were born in BiH, can't even get Croatian citizenship today. I note once again, and they were born in Croatia, spent a good part of their working life in Croatia, and because of this discrimination, they are unable, due to the lack of Croatian citizenship, to regulate many other issues. Not to mention the issue of property regulation, because according to some Croatian regulations, if there is a former citizen of Croatia somewhere else, here is the issue of obtaining property as an inheritance from parents born in BiH, they do not have the right to regulate these property issues in Croatia. I believe these are important issues that Mr Mesić should point out and help to resolve, rather than his inappropriate statements to question the constitutional-legal order of BiH. Thank you very much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14463	Thank you. Since the first question is addressed to the Kolegijum, let me try to give you an oral answer. So, at the next session, the information system here will be improved: it will be consistent with all languages in BiH and with the timer on the length of discussion and replication. So that'll... happen by the next session. As for the second part of your question, as far as the building is concerned, believe that we are in daily communication with the Council of the Minstars. As soon as we see their backs and move into their buildings, we will then be the real owners of this building and the opportunity to equip that building on those samples that we consider appropriate for parliamentary work. We also know that clubs work under such conditions, etc. I hope this was enough for that part of the answer. Dear Ambassador Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14464	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The issue addressed to the Ministry of Finance in the first part, and, in the second part, to the Council of Ministers: - $5.9m of pre-war claims from enterprises in the area of the BiH Federation have already been blocked on the BiH Central Bank's account for a longer period of time. The blockade followed the resolution of the same funds by the old Council of Ministers' Finance Minister. Since these funds plan to import internships to workers of all enterprises of the dedicated industry, I ask the finance minister when will these funds be unblocked? Regarding the above, the question to the Council of Ministers: - Is it also, if not, when will the Council of Ministers launch the process of charging these remaining 300 million dollars in demand for our enterprises of the dedicated industry on the basis of pre-war affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14465	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Did I miss someone registering? If not, I'm concluding this agenda point. And we move to point three: 25 Ad. 3. Report from the Commission to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures The law is in first reading. You've received a report on the coordination of the Kolegijum as well as on the commission. Consent has been reached. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 25, there was no "against" five. I find that he passed this law in his first reading. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Commission report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on Sefer Halilović's proposal for a conclusion, proposed in the debate at the 16th session under SDP's request for reconstruction of the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14471	Dear gentlemen, this proposed text of the law does not, in principle, resolve key objections to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. In fact, a series of perceived problems in the functioning of this law have not found its place in the very text of the law. This is how it happens to us that the parties cancel the competitions, not explaining the reasons, and that, again, those who report to the competitions have costs that no one makes up for, and no one has any obligation to make up for, and so long as the contracting authority chooses who it chooses before the tender is called. Also, the functioning of the appeal procedure or proceedings in the complaint is another significant problem, perhaps even the biggest problem since often the length of the proceedings does not end and does not end the procurement process or stop the need for procurement because the appeal procedure has not been resolved for a long time. I have proposed several amendments that unfortunately did not receive support at the commission stage. My Amendment I speaks of the need for procurement notices, contract award or cancellation of advertisements to also be published in the official messengers of the entity and Brcko District, especially when it comes to institutions from the territory of one of the entities or Brcko District. The essence of Amendment III and Amendment IV is, in fact, a completely different concept of the Public Procurement Act, which does not conflict with the principles that are laid down and which comply with the current law. Namely, I have provided for Amendment III the possibility that there is a BiH Public Procurement Agency, but also that there is a Public Procurement Agency in Banja Luka and a Federation Public Procurement Agency based in Mostar, or "Brcko District Public Procurement Agency" based in Brcko. And that, in doing so, each of these agencies takes care of the part of the territory it is responsible for, and that at BiH level, this agency is an independent administrative organisation based in Sarajevo that will have obligations specifically related to international tenders or tenders of general importance for the whole of BiH. And, of course, according to that, there would be an amandman IV aimed at resolving the problem in the appeal process, which provided for the formation of several offices to consider complaints followed by, of course, the organisation of agencies from Amendment III. As regards Amendments V and VI, they are further harmonising technical nature with a potentially modified concept of resolving public procurement issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we have accepted or not accepted these amendments, the problem of public procurement, unfortunately, we have not solved. Perhaps it is a much better solution to go to a whole new law on public procurement which would solve these significant issues or significant problems that arise in the functioning of the existing law in one general way and I believe that this concept of solving the problem is a step by step, and in particular a failure to solve key problems, harmful, not only by applying this law but also harmful to all those involved – either as contractual bodies, either as someone who wants to get a job. If we do not receive support for these amendments, Serbian Democratic Party MPs will not support the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14472	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14473	I apologize, I should have referred this business intervention to the previous question, but I... I had to look at it in the meantime... The Rules of Procedure, and I have to ask a question. Under what section of the Rules of Procedure can the vote be repeated after the request and the breaks received? I don't think that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, and I think that's what we broke the Rules of Procedure. I think this is, in a way, the first test of these Lajcak decisions on how to decide and, well, that first test didn't get a passing grade.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14474	We agree in the College that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14475	I'll just say briefly that the Commission has been discussing this law that is very, very important. You know there's a lot of uncertainty, so there are certain abuses, and it's not legally regulated. We went to a public hearing. Believe me, there was a big public debate, from all parts of BiH everyone was present here, heard quite a lot of useful proposals. We sublimated it and something that could be built in, we built it in, so. We can't do everything, normally. I also believe that a new law should be made, however, in addition to the pressure of these organisations all, I think that for the sake of the public and that it is good to do on the move, and that we are preparing a new law on public procurement over time. And I propose this home to accept the meaning of the Commission's Report and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, with amendments adopted, and there would be no... The Agency for Public Procurement to explain some things to us that there is a shift in this law, because the existing law is stricter than the European law, believe me, more stringent, undefined, anything, there is a shift in these changes. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14476	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14477	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that the general assessment of the Public Procurement Act is that he has put order into a very important area concerning the transparent availability of public money in the public sector in public enterprises, but that the public debate, as well as individual letters of participants in the application of this law, has indicated that this law has certain bottlenecks, which is why it is good that we finally have the opportunity to improve it in an effort to remove at least that most of our throats. And I don't think anyone has said so far that in principle BiH needs a new law on public procurement that would, in its 29th next step, in addition to the removal and other places of difficult application of this law, and languagefully adapt it to the languages of the people of BiH. But I think we have the right to say that on the basis of a public debate, based on the voice of the public, we came after this procedure to a law that has improved the most difficult segments of this law, harmonising them with the European directives in 2004. 18 and 2004 and 17 and respecting some market circumstances in BiH. I'll just list some of those things. This is a question of exemptions for municipal activities and those activities for which we already have existing infrastructure that made it impossible for any market competition and for goods and services for which the state authorities either priced or agreed at the price. It is also very important to bring our law into line with the European Directive in the event of a public advertising procedure, when, with proven competitiveness, as well as in the European Directive, it can end the process by the end and declare the winner, which was an observation by almost all participants in the public debate. It would be correct to say that certain problems are highlighted. I don't know which way to go. What Mr. Novaković is – I would leave bad for the end because he is seeking a certain debate about it – but it is pointed out that the price of publication in the official texts should be lower. We're also aware that she should be lower and that there's no point in earning any profit and not knowing what to do yet and exposing people to the extra cost. And I think it's a shame we didn't succeed, but it's such a process of amending the law, that the contract authorities are bound by law to share their tenders on the grounds of the nature of goods and services, in line with the branches of the practice, as in other countries, even though we have assurances from the procurement agency that this will be prescribed and that it is already in a certain scope and prescribed in sublegal acts which will be binding by the contractual authorities. Mr. Novaković also spoke on the subject. And the problem of effective resolution is highlighted by complaints. I must say that it is important to define ourselves to benefit from other countries' experiences, but we must also not forget that European directives are what we ultimately aim at. I think it should be said that the Board of Appeal was late established and that has already caused great damage to this procedure of effective decision-making. The Board of Appeal has not been filled there as much as necessary under the law, but it should be said that those people who have not shown enough skill to try to build that trust during this first period of their work and to indicate that they are ready in some reasonable time, some of the other items in the past, lead to a resolved state. We have presented on the Commission an experience of European countries and I think we should talk about it and try to agree on that. In developed European countries to the home pay grade, these complaints are simplified significantly, and the number of complaints in this range is incomparably higher than this second, so the number of complaints for high values. If we could do that, by returning it to the entities or otherwise -- there are, therefore, different lawyers who think differently -- then I think the BiH-level Board of Appeal would remain a reasonable number of cases and that this efficiency would finally be resolved. So, in the end, I would suggest that what Mr. Novakovic is saying objectively, therefore, destroys the nature of this law in this way; I think it would be good to have these amendments; namely, to support this law and to support Mr. Novaković's request for Parliament to reach a conclusion: that, in the following year, with a deadline of 180 to this year, the text of the new law was passed, because it was a requirement for almost everyone to interpret the provisions of the law more easily, although we were almost all getting used to this slightly more complex writing of the law. I assure you, 30, therefore, that the debate of those who had had the opportunity to see that the debate had shown that if we had brought such an improvement of this law that it would significantly relax the situation on the ground, with the obligation to go into major changes to this law, which would also mean the adoption of a new law. And finally, those who have had the patience to read the report of the Office of Audit for the two years that we've been considering here, the key point of the Review Office is the application of the Public Procurement Act. For the good part, that application was also the consequence of a more complex procedure in the old law, and this improvement of the law would, I say, allow the users of the law to apply it in full capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14478	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go. Please, I apologize, it's a replica, honourable Ambassador Novaković, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14479	I want to replicate my colleagues' position that we have... removed the most important objections to this law, and especially to the conclusion that we have failed to resolve the problem of appeal. There was no will to solve this problem, because there were no amendments that would solve this problem properly. And it's a very simple way: that a contract authority must have sanctions because it annulled an ad for no reason or for a reason, and that it has to pay the costs to everyone who answered – we would solve the problem of the appeal. Namely, the complaint problem would be resolved by making a fair decision. The contracting authority, not the contractual authority, does not do so because it has chosen the contractor in advance and in such a way acts according to the ad and has no responsibility, no material or any other, to adhere to it. That's basically... the reason why I don't think we've solved the problem, and I don't think it was the will to get rid of it, because if it was, we could easily solve it this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14480	Thank you. Replica reply: Dear Ambassador Jašarević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14481	I would just like to.....we have been interpreted by the professional services of this Parliament as being able to submit amendments only to the members that the promoter is changing. It didn't make sense to me. I have previously written amendments to other members, wishing this appeal procedure to be improved. When we received that letter – I think it was a past term, now I don't have that letter here – then it made it impossible for us to enter into the design of a concept that would solve these questions about what Mr. Novaković was talking about. 31 And here, let me remind you, though maybe... it's not significant. We are at two meetings of the Commission, so we interrupted the Commission to consider until the next Commission, whether, without touching other members, we can achieve improvement in this part of the complaint. Unfortunately, however we turned, it turned out that we had to touch other members. And then, as the Commission, we said that what we've agreed on is going towards the House, this is going to the House. Of course, the House will either take down today or we won't have it, we'll have an old man who's much worse than this amended law, and then we'll solve everything together, or this and some other tight spots remain for further changes, which is the important attitude of the House whether the next changes to the new law or the changes, as it's called, are to get some improvements. It's my chance to tell you... at this point: we don't need the practice of touching one piece at a time when the meaning of the law often goes to some awkward side, and the lawyers kill themselves by telling us that always the law in the whole of the sea, therefore, in a certain way keeps that meaning. But of course, when the Rules of Procedure makes it possible and needs to move on. So, I think it is better to have a full law in the next changes that will respect the situation in BiH by that time and improve the situation. I don't know if I've remembered it well, but some people who are monitoring this public procurement sector, and there are assessing our progress there, I think they have a feeling that we've agreed to improve this law. So, I guess that's how they understood it. I also heard how the House of Peoples made that decision. I don't know how the procedure goes, so it's gonna be what it's gonna be, it's gonna be a big damage for the users if we don't adopt these improvements today, but there won't be a system without laws. And finally, I would like to remind you: even when we signed the CEFTA Treaty, there was an explanation that public procurement was therefore the possibility that this regional trade could be achieved in the same way, without discrimination, as regards belonging to a particular state. That's what leads us to support this law. Of course, when there aren't enough votes, then you should go the way that's realistically possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14482	Thank you. I was going to say that the House of Peoples went one step ahead of the House of Representatives and that he had already voted on this law and had no entity majority, so he was in the College at an agreement and we didn't get another report on whether they agreed on that law. It's a bad habit for me to go home to the House of Peoples in front of the House of Representatives and I don't think it should become a practice. The next came Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14483	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, here today's debate shows that the initial position of the SNSD was correct and that our approach to this issue was correct. Today, one thing is that everyone agrees that there is much here that is not good and to a lesser or greater extent, everyone here is agreeable. We started by saying that things aren't systemically set up here, they're basically not well set up and that they won't be able to bring a result with cosmetic changes. We have patiently 32 followed the debate, a public debate in commission work, and left room for this crucial shift to take place. However, we are not convinced that it came to him. And what is being asked as a question, given that this home is responsible for the adoption of a good law. We now have the consequences, the good consequences of this law, and it doesn't matter what else is wrong and even though we are responsible, we have no right; every reform law is probably about to make a move. And we can't be satisfied with him because we're responsible for the whole legislative situation and we're aware of the fact that by law we can change certain things, we don't do it and we don't even make comments and we know what we need to change it, but there we are. So we think there's a whole solution here, we've had a warning of people who've been taking part in the public debate the last few days, I have to say that, who are afraid of cosmetic change and who are afraid that by adopting such changes, they're going to take further action and it's not going to be good. It's logical that every sentence makes a move, that's not controversial. But there is no right for this home to be satisfied with this shift, when in its jurisdiction a complete legislative problem for all other areas, including this one, and I think we need to be more responsible and I must warn that we will not be able to withstand the pressure of those who are dissatisfied, the pressure of the public, that we do not make a very fast and complete solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14484	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Halilović has checked in, I have a registration here. It's not. Replica? Dear Ambassador Jašarević: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14485	So, I would just like a little bit... without a wish, it may not be directly related to what drago said, but we – in the desire that everyone who decides on the law today have all the information – in the course of the public debate we asked that all the letters of those who had an interest in affecting it be multiplied. And those who have had patience, so from these letters can see that key requirements are embedded. So the key requirements of their weight and their scope were built in and again the only dam was, if we cross half the members, so as the single rules define it there, we need to go to the amendment of the new law, and we have already moved in the process of these changes. I am convinced, therefore, that if we come to the conclusion that we are going to change the new law, that that fear will be removed, and if we make changes, no one will ever change the laws again. I think that the Council of Ministers and the Proposer can commit itself to offering an integrated text over the next six months that will respect everything that could not be respected in this area. So here's what I needed to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14486	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14487	Dear colleagues, I'd like to fill you in on the Commission's position a little bit. We've lost a lot of time discussing these issues, and we want to answer one 33 questions here together. And Jašarević has already said: we have received many letters from businessmen, from all who deal with this law and there are mostly many shortcomings. We discussed all these issues individually on the Commission, and it was difficult to reach adequate conclusions. My proposal was to go to propose a new law, and then we decided that this law was unanimous, everyone accepted that the law which had many shortcomings and failures and which had caused this country a lot of evil, was spent money means of economy, taxpayers over the past few years, and what I warned last time, I said we wouldn't have companies and opportunities to tender for the next five years or for the next few years. When we adopt the law on free trade, then our companies won't be able to collect the papers and they won't be able to meet the terms of the tender. Why won't he be able to? Because whoever took out the loans, invested, according to the Public Procurement Act, couldn't get his rights, got the machines, and we know that...... companies are working and that this law has been misused, and our Agency for Appeals, so, you know, you didn't report here, hasn't even been formed yet, you saw from the Report that they didn't find enough workers, they didn't even hire, they didn't call the competitions. So this is about a classic abuse and this law that our previous colleagues have passed. We have determined that with these amendments we can make one move and try to enter the procedure to start next year... amending the entire law. I'm really asking you to seriously consider this and try to stop it. In front of our eyes, the law is misused in an emergency procedure listed in the previous law. We suggested that it be deleted. Why? So, because millions of figures are carried out under this sentence, the law in an emergency procedure, and all tenders go according to emergency procedure. And what we suggested, as Mr. Novaković said, has one bigger problem. When one tender is cancelled in the spring and the procedure ends somewhere in September, we have performers working on the ground now, this cold, building buildings, we have poor quality and so we lose in a bad tender, and we lose another 30% through quality. I'm really asking you to do this question, and if you haven't read these amendments correctly, then really think about how you're going to vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14488	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Now we move on to... The Board of Appeals, he has his agenda point, when he can make this part... comment, so I wouldn't say anything further here. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the amendments you have on the table. Amendments to the honourable Member Novaković, amandman Ii which refers to Article 11 and is added to Article 11a). Since the amendments are extensive, I'm not going to read them. I hope the MPs have all these materials in front of them and we now vote on the amandman and the honourable MP Novaković at the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 16, "against" 17, "restricted" two. He doesn't have a general majority. I'm moving on to Amendment II. 34 Amendment II refers to Article 12. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 16, "against" 17, "abstained" three, there is no general majority. We're moving on to Amendment III. It refers to Article 25. A bill of law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 17, "against" 16, "restricted" three. Please, at the request of the SDA Club, the re-election. Please re-enact the House with regard to Amendment III of Honorable Ambassador Novaković on the bill. Get ready to vote. Vote now! "For" 16, "against" 18, "abstained" four. I find that Amendment III has not passed. We vote on amandman IV to Article 26. A bill of law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 15, "against" 18, "abstained" five; not enough general majority. I find that amandman iv.e has not passed. We move to Amendment V in Article 28. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 15, "against" nine, "abstained" four. I find that this amendment has not received most of it. I am moving to Amendment VI of Article 28. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 15, "against" 18, "abstained" four; there is no general majority. And we have another... Amendment VII. It refers to Article 32. A bill of law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 16, "against" 18, "abstained" four; not enough general majority. This amendment has not been supported. And now we have a vote on this law in the second reading. I ask the House to prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 35 "For" 19, "against" six, "abstained" 13; no entity majority. The law will go to the College as a commission and you will be notified within three days. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for an internal audit law in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions The law is in the second reading. We adopted the proposal for this law in our first reading at the 15th session. The committee responsible delivered the report on 19 October. There were no amendments in the plenary phase either. The Commission adopted the proposal for a law in the proposed text. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14490	...so the Commission has passed this law. There have been no amendments, and I suggest this House adopts this internal audit law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14491	Thank you. Please, we're just registering for a vote. If there are no more charges for discussion, I'm closing the debate. Please state the proposal for a law on internal audit in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the second reading. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 34, "against" was not,... three "abstained". We find that an internal audit law has been adopted in BiH institutions. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Law No 01-02-9-47-1/07 of 12.09.2007 (Law in Second Reading) At the 16th session, this bill was adopted in the first reading. The committee responsible submitted the report on 8 November; the proposal for a law in the proposed text was adopted. I ask: Is there any need for a proposal to comment on this law? I'm opening a debate about this. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14493	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this item of the agenda, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Administration, given the problem this law treats, is causally related to point 9 of today's agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with the Report of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, because, at the current point of the agenda, it is in the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act, which should be treated, instead of as an independent organisation, by this subsequent law, by the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, therefore, the SIPA. And this law under agenda 9, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, has a negative report from the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, and therefore I felt the need to, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, in whose jurisdiction this law is now discussed, and the Vice-President of the Defence and Security Commission - intervened on this agenda point and pointed to one possible illogicality and asked Parliament to see what we can do in this situation. First, I think it is necessary to pass a law amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act and there is nothing disputed about it, but we have a negative report under the following law, in which Interpol should be located, after we are now in the situation,... we exclude it from the framework of the Ministry of Security, and we are situationing... as a department in SIPA. Furthermore, I do not believe that, under this next item of the agenda, the Commission's negative report on the amendments and additions to the SIPA Act should be accepted. It is an important law dealing with the problem of improvement, the problem of improvement in the work of the service. I agree that there are amendments and I think it would be very harmful today to adopt a negative Commission report and therefore to support the Commission's position under this law. I think that all the opportunities have not yet been used and that today Parliament should reject this negative report from the Commission. If we do so, then I would ask that a statement be postponed on this current agenda point, so it is on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies... of State Administration,... to return the proposed SIPA Act to the Commission on the next item of the agenda, and when all this is balanced, so also on the Defence Commission for this second law and on the Constitutional Commission for this first law, we will be able to adopt both in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14494	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14495	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14496	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14497	It probably is... 37
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14498	Please listen to each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14499	I am talking about Parliament now, and there will be a role to play,...and certainly the Council of Ministers. You're right, Mr. Belkić. Then we can be in a position to make decisions about these laws. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14500	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14501	Well, here's to my colleague Džaferović's proposal, but with one addition. In order not to come to a legal situation that would also lead to the implementation of the law, both of which are both, and also this Parliament before the situation in which we do not know how to act, I suggest that this should also be extended, i.e. to return to the commission phase, with regard to related matter, that both laws, regardless of the different competences of the different commissions, be directed to both laws, hence to identical commissions. If these are the Constitutional Commission which is responsible for the first law and the Defence and Security Commission for the second law, that both laws go to both Commissions and we get a report here. In favour of prolonging, I will only mention, possibly, some agreements concerning police reform, police structures that are likely to concern these laws, or the provisions of these laws that are before us. I think that could... get us a round-off. So, I suggest, with this argument, we return both laws to the commission stage, with this proposal: that both laws go equally to the same committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14502	Wait a minute, if I can.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14503	Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14504	I don't really need to...... and I'm not going to replicate to the esteemed colleague Hadžiahmetović,... but just to say this: therefore, there is no need for the amendment law and the additions of the Law on Ministry and other bodies to the Constitutional Legal Commission, there is therefore a very clear matter. ... The Constitutional Commission has nothing to do. There's a need to stop voting on this bill, to stop. So, just, put on the next session... 38 Parliament. Let's get this proposal back to the SIPA Act at the Defense Commission, wait for that report, and then we'll have both laws on the agenda again, I mean, that's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14505	The word has a distinguished representative, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14506	Thank you. Namely, I want to make my personal point about... with these two laws. We had a dilemma about whether to put one law before, so to determine ourselves according to this commission whose report is negative, or whether it goes into the law in the second reading. However, the procedures are clear: that the laws are going...by weight... are being placed and obviously we have to admit that someone hastened with these laws before we could agree, as you know, on police reform. They'd be very complicated if they were to delay the pleas or in some way... in other ways solve these problems. It is much simpler to bring down one law and another, and then on February 15, when all the other laws regarding police reform come to us, however the Council of Ministers proposes, that we adopt here. I think it's a more elegant solution for this House. They wouldn't add to our commission's burden, and they'd be tasking professionals to solve this problem. Here, that's my personal one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14507	The word has a respected representative, Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14508	Well, you see, Mr. Chairman, what you've suggested might come to mind that BiH is now establishing both SIPA and Interpol, as it is meant to establish a state police structure in this area, so let's call it, these ordinary police. We, therefore, need to establish this kind of police structure, and reform in BiH is precisely why we are doing so, so that those who guard public order and peace, who fight against this general crime, which is the largest number in BiH -- are reformed. And that's what conversations are about. It is not at all controversial for any of us, I hope here in the BiH Parliament, nor the position of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, popularly called SIPA, nor is Interpol's disputed position. Interpol.... there is and he... is doing his job and the reform that we are carrying out does not really concern these institutions. The assessment is, and those two things, I think we should separate, I'm asking you to go that way and we're all thinking that way. The SIPA law is actually trying to improve the efficiency, mode of work, the fight against all the forms of crime that are within the jurisdiction of SIPA, which will remain in the jurisdiction of the SIPA both during and after the reform of police structures in BiH. The newly reformed police structure in BiH will not deal with the work that is responsible for SIPA, which we have established by special law, nor will it deal with Interpol's affairs. Here, therefore, is just an assessment and I think it is in line with the standards, is whether, which are in force in the modern world: that one institution tasked with carrying out police cooperation on an international plan is located where it belongs and where in 39 most countries are situated and to introduce some measures that will enable SIPAs to fight more effectively those forms of crime for which it is responsible. Waiting for these improvements to reform the rest of the police in BiH, though the largest, I don't think it would be rational, so it wouldn't be good. I ask you that if we all want to have a more effective fight against crime, then we take this seriously and act this way. Let us return this simply to this committee, Parliament will not lose anything if it puts it back on the committee in charge. Some competent commission - I am a member of this committee, I was not at this committee's session, unfortunately, when a decision of this kind was made - let this commission see it again. There are amendments there, so let's reassess it all together and make a decision. And certainly, this first law must not simply as Parliament, taking care of the legal status of the institutions, bring it, because if we had passed this first law without this second law, the SIPA law, we would have virtually consciously,... we would have practically left Interpol to be a wizard in heaven or on earth, and we must not do that at all. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14509	Thank you. You see, in my address, I wanted to find an elegant way to get out of this situation, but apparently, there was an issue that I needed to say about reorganisation of the Ministry of Security. So no one questions that there is a SIPA, that there is an Interpol and that they are an integral part of the Ministry of Security. At this point, Interpol is proposed to remain like the SIPA in the Ministry of Security, but Interpol goes to the SIPA. So, reorganization around one ministry, within one ministry. Those reorganisations within the ministry will certainly be in this reform that is to be completed or scheduled to take place within the next month. As parliamentarians, we are running before step or before the ore that such solutions as experts will propose must then, by amending and supplementing the laws that are now on the agenda again, be made again. I think it's about the efficiency of our efficiency, not the issue of fighting crime more effectively. On the other hand, it is the opinion of all professionals that Interpol is a administrative organisation in all countries, that it is a unique name and that it is called in all EU countries and that, as such an institution, it must have uninterrupted communication with such same and same-named institutions in other countries. Therefore, his position as a subordinate, I must say, makes the position within the SIPA impossible for him to do... the things that have been given him to internationally diverse... standards, if we already mention European standards. And I think it's a better solution to wait for police reform to see how the Ministry of Security will be organised and to see where all the organizations that are in the Ministry of Security will be located than to run with our solutions before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14510	The word has a respected representative, Belkić. Excuse me, excuse me. Replica: Honorable representative Kalabić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14511	Dear counterpart Živković said part of it, but I cannot not react, as counterpart Džaferović made a few findings that do not stand and could be misread. The security sector reform in BiH does not mean that anything is over. She doesn't mean that anything can stay as an isolated whole that won't be discussed, because that, that's not good from a professional point of view. In both the world and everywhere, such things are subject to change and the best system is sought, almost every day looking for the best system in the safe application of new achievements, either in terms of coordination, either in terms of merger, separation, change, or I don't know what. So it can't be seen on that side, nor is it good to prejudge things that will be looked at in isolation in future conversations. That's impossible from a professional point of view. Who says certain powers and certain things will not be from one organisation that is again under one roof, which are again within the authority of the Ministry of Security. So it's not realistic to expect all of this to stand out... because then those people who are going to work on it would make it very difficult to do the job. Therefore... our proposal is not to prejudge the matter, given that it is in some short time and that these institutions that are directly connected to each other and to each other and new institutions and the present as well as in entities will have to look for these models and these types of co-operation that in this sense... nothing is finished. I don't think institutionally that now, I think we understand each other very well... what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14512	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Belkić, pa Lozančić, Novaković, Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14513	Here, I'll really try... to get back to the thing. So from the initial consensus where we all kind of had the same understanding that these two points have a relationship with each other and where we agreed that we should look for a way out so that we don't complicate things. Furthermore, we had a very concrete proposal, so to postpone the statement on this current agenda point, without accepting this negative report, because I really thought that this was the period in which the motioner, therefore this was not prejudged by Parliament, did not run before ore, but simply – this was through regular procedure by the Council of Ministers, i.e. the RES, came to us on the benches. And until today, especially when it comes to the current agenda point, so the proposal for a law amending the Council of Ministers' Law went through procedure without any problems. Unanimity support, etc., no amendments, with the following point, so on the Agency for Investigation and Protection,...there have been some amendments. E,... if you pay attention to the content of the amendments, in particular these next items of the agenda, this is about status issues, salaries, how to choose, etc. And I think it would be very good, very good to hear people from the Resort Ministry. If there's going to be a prejudge, if we're going to ruin something, etc.? I don't have that kind of impression. These are changes that don't prejudge anything, or destroy anything, we just need to synchronise them. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14514	Dear Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14515	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, so here, before this debate began, I was inclined to support this law, for the simple reason that I was reading the explanation given by this law I had positiveally, so to speak, the relationship against it, estimated that this was a pointless change of law and that it should not be spent on it. I just need to let it go, if anyone's estimated it to go. After these discussions and after another reading of the reasoning of this law, I was asked a series of questions! Here we are talking about amending the law, moving one administrative organisation from one position to another, to another administrative organisation, within the same ministry. And the reason for all this is that we're changing some other law, so we should change this too. Today, when we talk about changing this law, Interpol is an administrative organization within the Ministry of Security. And, if that's at all, if it's really that important, if it's really going to increase efficiency, if it's going to make this organization and the SIPA better and the Ministry of Security even more effective, then it should certainly be in the context of an argument. What are the reasons why the current way of organizing is wrong? And we should, because we all don't know what that is. I'll remind you of a discussion when we discussed it, so when Interpol was reporting to us about the evictions, etc. Then we saw that it had something, that it was something serious in this country. And now suggest that it be moved from here somewhere else, and without a letter of explanation except that it is done by some other law and in that other law once again in a sentence it is not like that anymore, it is like this now. Why, how, what we're going to get, I have to say that I didn't conclude that we're going to get anything, and we're getting into a position that here, since we don't have the arguments for the proposed changes, we don't have a valid explanation. Now I'm starting to think about what really motives are for... and since, because, based on what estimates, someone's come judgment to say, well, this is very important right now to do in BiH. I think he's got a lot more important questions. Here, I'm just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of something that would be good for us to deal with and make sure that our law enforcement authorities, the agencies are more effective, to meet the needs of the citizens. Without one serious debate on this subject and I have to say... and the fact that I'm adopting this, and by refusing another law, we're going to do a funny thing. It is obvious that this Defence and Security Committee has entered into this problem and that they have found some reasons, huge reasons, obviously, as soon as they have not accepted the bill. I think we should respect that, too, and that's why I'm going to choose not to support this law today and accept the Commission's report. I think that we should create one climate and obligation for all of us to enter into the fundamental reform of police forces without cosmetic changes, and through this reform in the best possible and quality way to address the positioning of both these and other agencies and the overall security system in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14516	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14517	You see, gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, you have managed to confuse me. It's not clear to me now what you want! Do you want to discuss or not discuss these laws? Even from colleges, we have three different thoughts: from thinking that it's a ridiculous law, meaningless amendments, or a pointless law on amendments, to thinking that today should not be voted or thought that today should not be accepted. What would be good is that I would be less confused than I am: that the Vice-President of the Joint Commission, Mr Džaferović, says what are the motives of this commission or what it is, what are the basic remarks that have affected this commission's vote in the way it voted. I think it would be, I guess, much clearer to all of us here what the essence of this second law is, which is unacceptable, or what the objections have been through the amendments have been without amendments, which is why this commission has been defined as being defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14518	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14519	The right to tell you, I am surprised by this fact that Mr. Novaković may be confused here in Parliament and I was a little worried at the beginning of his discussion, but after he finished the discussion, I was relieved because I saw that he had not read the Commission report, so I ask him to take it and there he will find all the reasons that the Commission has managed. I can't give you these direct impressions. Unfortunately, I wasn't at the Commission meeting, I had other obligations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14520	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14521	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, of the Members of Parliament, when we have already brought these two points of the agenda together, and when I tabled amendments to the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, it motivated me for a number of reasons, but the argument is very simple. Therefore, this proposed legislative solution in certain members of the bill, if it has the proposed establishment of the Department of International Police Cooperation, so Interpol, within the framework of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection and would take over the tasks of the Office for Co-operation with Interpol, which is legally provided for as an independent service, or, as counterpart Lozančić, a administrative organisation, so it is not acceptable to be in the SIPA and to maintain the current position in the Ministry of Security. 43 In fact, the affairs of the Interpol Co-operation Office cannot only be tied to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, or to SIPA, because, say, what about the Border Police? And she's the organ of this country. What if we put Interpol in the SIPA there, how co-operation would be achieved if SIPA took over all Interpol's intelligence, since it is part of the administrative organisation, so that co-operation with the Border Police can be achieved! But I'm going to expand a little bit now, of course. In order to achieve co-operation with entity MUPs, the RS Ministry of Interior and, of course, the Federation MUP, as they too need inter-police co-operation to exchange operational information. You have had an example recently, and I am proud that just because of such an organization, extraordinary co-operation has been achieved: the police of Greece, Croatia and RS. We got a confession in all the fields for confiscation and cutting off the drug trade chain and breaking up drugs. I wish SIPA had taken part in that interest! So, the essence of this whole story is and should be strengthened by SIPA, but in some other sectors, to mitigate the importance of Interpol that would lose any opportunity to co-operate with other security institutions in BiH and I have already told the entity ministries. It was the meaning of those who wanted to propose this law, that is, in amendments and additions. That's why from our point of view, of course, it's not acceptable, while this structure is police in BiH. It is better to work on the overall security structure, so then evaluate and see the fate of one, the other MUP, the border police, the SIPA and the SIPA, of course, take as a special segment to strengthen it in some other things where indeed SIPA must have the importance of state and, behold, we are not contesting anything. But we can't let all the crowds within one institution, without any reason why Interpol will really be in SIPA, here, as part of the Ministry of Security. But then let's strengthen the security ministry's powers to keep all the security structures in BiH in the ministry and to cooperate with that ministry and that whoever's there at the Ministry of Security really has insight into everything. But you had a pay phone case here that the minister couldn't answer my simplest questions. So if we want to complicate something and if we really don't want to do something, then we're going to have these suggestions that I'm never really going to argue with. Let's turn down our commission's report! Why would we refuse him, then why the commission? Only because Mr. Džaferović wasn't there or maybe I or I don't know who. Let's not do that! We're not good with that. Last time I said, let's go, people, respect the Constitution as it is. And here, thank Bog, what the people would say, we agree, we go to constitutional changes that will define everything. Well, this police reform that's gonna define this area, and no, someone's gonna fall over their knees, so there's something Interpol is on his own, let's push it somewhere without any reason. That's the point. If someone had given a normal explanation, any sentence, why would Interpol be there, I might have accepted it. But given what it's all about, and you know what it's all about, it's just that when Interpol, what the people would say, is he's pushing into SIPA that he interrupts any co-operation with entity MUPs, he eliminates them from any communication and co-operation with other international organisations on security and various operational data. Let's not do that, people! Don't do that, no! We... will always be in the function of Parliament's efficiency when there is indeed an interest in the whole country, not just one part, one segment or anything else. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14522	The replica was first reported by distinguished representative Novaković and then by distinguished representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14523	Well, you see, I've checked in before, but the chairman hasn't seen it. So, the replica is either the answer, however you like, to Mr. Džaferović. I mean, I still have a reason to be confused. The reasons for refusing here are ten rows of pay law. Now, I don't know if it's clear to everyone why we're not going to accept this first law, if the reasons are pay, and the wages aren't being mentioned anywhere. So there are obviously some other reasons, and I thank Mr. Slavko for explaining the reasons why this commission did not accept. So that's essential, so these are the reasons and let's not write there that they're a pay problem. Here, after this discussion... it's a little clearer to me, or I don't think I'm as confused as after Jaferovic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14524	I'm glad to hear he's getting less confused. Dear Ambassador Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14525	I mean, I'm really glad that my colleague Novaković, even though my argument didn't help him, was less confused. But, strangely enough, I listened carefully to my colleague Jovičić when he talked about the reasons, his reasons for moving Interpol out of the position of an independent administrative organisation within the framework of the Ministry of Security, in the position of one organisational unit of another administrative, independent administrative organisation, such as SIPA. And this is exactly what Mr. Jovičić was talking about, we all know, is that, in the materials, there are no precise reasons why it was done and therefore there is nothing to argue about and I think that Parliament should have the reasons described and I do not dispute that part of the argument. I can say that the reasons for the transfer Mr. Jovičić spoke of are arbitrary, just as he can say that the reasons that I was talking about are supposed to be, too, arbitrary. I mean, it's just that, in a lack of argument, in a lack of explanation, then that's how it would be good if we had an explanation. My intentions, of course, are completely sincere and have nothing to do with what Mr. Jovičić was talking about. I think Interpol, our national bureau, should co-operate with all BiH police agencies. I want, therefore, to say so, because only with that kind of cooperation will he be able to fulfill his obligation on this international plan, no matter where he was... But how do you get out of this situation, that's actually the real question. I don't think we're going to get answers to these questions if we just go through with all these laws today. Laws are the easiest thing to do. That we can always do, no problem at all. Today I know for sure we won't do one thing. We're not going to pass these laws. I'm sure I know that. But all I'm asking is that we don't knock them down, that one of them be on hold, and the other one go to this committee, that he discuss in this committee, he'll come back here, get all these reasons. That's what I, colleagues and colleagues are talking about, so without any... last intentions and don't, really... I'm asking you, don't read 45 too much from what I'm saying, because I'm going to say it out loud... everything I have to say and what I mean at a given moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14526	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić. Incorrect quote, correction, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14527	Dear Chairman, well, Mr. Džaferović, I didn't answer to deny what you said. From your point of view, you're absolutely right. But it is not popular, if you have not been and not been well at the session... that you are now calling on Parliament not to accept the Commission's decision. I mean, that's not good at first. Secondly, the Commission has taken such a stand for simple reasons, you don't have to agree with me, but isn't it the best suggestion! What will change in the security structures and in the work of SIPA and Interpol if we wait for a total reform around police structures? Because this reform will certainly not bypass the SIPA to be helped, of course, from all other aspects, neither Interpol, nor any security structure in BiH. Why are we in such a hurry, that's what I want to ask you? Who forced us to deal with our misery and to entertain it now, and why do we have to deal with this at this very moment, and we have countless more pressing things? That's what I'm asking you! That's why this law is worse, changes and additions, a proposal. In fact, the ministry is a problem that can't go through because of this kind of thing, which is always someone on our side, without any real explanation, I'd say, planted and not be in that People's Momo, it's good to be confused, we'll sober up, it's better not to be the other one. That's the difference, here in Parliament, that we're constantly outsmarting some things and we're in a procedure that we're now free of charge, if nothing, we'll lose two hours. So please, let's do this, you have two options, take down today, and enter the full reform of all these, accept the Commission's report, or, if you have a better proposal, don't make it difficult for us to waste free time when this won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14528	Thank you. I have yet to report the honourable member of Parliament Križanović, and there is also the honourable Member Matić, is there not? First Križanović and then Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14529	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be real quick. The further away this discussion is, I don't think it reduces the number of these confused. You see, I think we've introduced confusion in some way, I think, by the wrong approach. We've been discussing one item on the agenda, including the next three or four, and, if 46 of us still included this Bill on Police Structures, I think it would be even more complicated. I'm a member of the Defence and Security Commission and we've given a negative opinion on this bill, but I'm not going to talk about it now that I wouldn't... go ahead with the agenda. I wanted to say this: that actually our confusion here, let me say, is generated by disrespecting a certain, nevertheless, our Rules of Procedure. You see, we have on the agenda one, come on, we have assessed, however, a serious proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Act; we are departing from our usual rule that it cannot be debated at this home without a proposing, that here it was necessary to give some reasons: why it is important that Interpol now goes from as an independent organisation in SIPA, etc. So, my appeal is to go in order and, when it comes to the Law on Police Officers and the SIPA, then I'll have something to say as a member of the Commission, but only for this topic to say that the reason for the rejection of these laws is not the problem of moving Interpol to the Ministry but a whole other nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14530	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Matić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14531	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, I took part in the debate when there was the first reading of this law, both on the agenda, and then, like you today, I had many doubts, and I also asked some questions that I had not received answers to, and obviously the rest of you. And today I am even more convinced that the amendment and the addition, although only one, of this Law on the Ministry and other bodies of BiH administration, was not necessary and that it was better to go in the other direction. We are discussing that the Office for Cooperation with Interpol is in place in two legislative solutions that are in force in the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of BiH administrations and the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, i.e. the SIPA, being treated in two different ways. In my opinion, it was better that we left it out in the SIPA Act and the Interpol Co-operation Office as a management organisation of the Ministry, because I think that this way, by descending to a lower level, we are now the Office for Cooperation with Interpol, from the level of the Ministry's administrative organisation, we want to set up to be only part of one part of this ministry. That way, in my opinion, we send a bad message to Interpol offices in other countries with which our national Interpol cooperates, giving it less importance. On the other hand, in order for our Office for Cooperation with Interpol to successfully carry out its tasks, he was daily invited to cooperate not only with SIPA but also with the Border Police, with the Intelligence Service, with the interior ministries, with various ministries both at national and lower levels of government as well as with the same offices of other countries. And, by that, we should already have one higher level than the one we want to give, installing it in only one part of the Ministry of Security. I don't think there's any need to accept this 47, and it was better in the SIPA Act to abandon the Interpol Co-operation Office and leave it the way it is now, whether it's a formal or a fundamental amendment or not, since for such a change of any other reason other than legal cohesion, legal cohesion in two legal regulations, no other reason justified, justified, justified, has been offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14532	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14533	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable College, fellow MPs, ministers, dear guests, representatives of the international community, I will say just one thing about the principles and the way one law is amended in the parliamentary procedure and what is this unserious way. I'm not getting into this. The Commission has given its opinion and I am a member of this committee, etc. And we're at least discussing and looking at the details that we should discuss today, and we're more discussing something else, which is some other nature. When amending and supplementing the law, or only amending the law, in every democratic parliament and state should at least be a proposing..., or at the head of the promoter of the minister and at least one two, three people working on that material, to defend, or to convince Parliament or not to believe what they are proposing. In other words, to defend their proposal, etc. It didn't happen on this committee either, it didn't happen in this House either. The technical mandate is still with them, etc. etc. We know from experience how much they are present, and I think this is one extreme indifference, and when one of these laws is being amended by the most responsible man, and I think that this is a degradation and Parliament, and I can understand that for now, the Council of Ministers is still in the technical mandate, and I hope that you who will support the Council of Ministers, and maybe we will support it, too, if we find it quality, we can get the strength to have our own mes that we have brought out here a few times in the future, and we never have kept it, and that is: that these laws that they ignore through their inability and put it only so much in the process, we should take it out of our discussions, whether it was in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not. And it's said there and we can do it etc. Discussions and discussions, but I said we take it off (under quotes) They must be aware that they cannot (under quotes) flash changes and additions of the law to this extent, and that... do not appear anywhere in all these segments. Nor code, they appeared in a particular section and on the commission, here in Parliament in which part, etc. I don't think that's serious. Today this law will be able to experience fate, I think, in two respects, which is either to be brought down or simply to someone's initiative, and I don't see now whose power it will be to be withdrawn and removed from today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14534	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14535	Here, I'll be a little persistent. So, I'm not gonna say anything new. We have, I repeat, a bill amending the Council of Ministers' Law, proposed by the Council of Ministers. Surely it's to assume that the initiator was a resolute ministry, to assume it. I remind you again: he was in a regular procedure, passed first reading, second reading, no objections, no amendments. Sit down, Mr. Križanović, the deputy minister sits all the time and follows. I understand, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14536	He hasn't been all the time since the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14537	I've seen a man sit all the time. Therefore, it is his right to assess whether he will be involved in the debate and when he will be involved in the debate. And I expect and I now expect – Mr Križanović, it is not a replica of you but only information – I expect the Deputy Minister to explain these things to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14538	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? If he doesn't answer, I'm closing the argument. I have a proposal that I would not like to become a practice in this house, because we can make a way for any legal project, before voting on it, to vote on someone's proposal, to postpone the vote. That would lead us to a very difficult situation, and that's why those who suggest such a thing, please have a bearing on it, because it could be a practice here. However, given that we have worked in this way and in the previous assembly of the Kolegijum, but also in this call of the Kolegijum, it means the joint, and the honourable MPs of Hadžiahmetović, I believe that this is also the Party for BiH Club and in front of Mr Honorable MP Džaferović, meaning in front of the SDA Club, that we do so – that two clubs have proposed to give strength – I am putting their proposal on the vote to postpone the statement on this law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! "For" 19, "against" nine, "abstained" eight. Since there is not enough entity majority, within three days Parliament will be informed about this request. Moving to the next item of the agenda: 49 Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, with Report of the Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH At the 16th session of the House, we adopted this legal proposal in our first reading. On 28 November 2007, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security submitted a report on the Bill's Proposal and you saw that this Commission did not accept the text of the Bill proposal in the Report, with an explanation contained in the Report. We therefore have a situation to discuss and decide on the Commission's report, where the draft law has fallen if the House adopts the Commission's report. I am opening a debate and I remind you that we have already discussed practically this law and we are asking MPs, if there is no great need, to shorten this debate as much as possible. Dear Ambassador Kalabić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14540	Mr. Chairman, with your criticism of my proposal in advance, and since we are in the same situation, I would suggest that we postpone the plea for this point of the agenda, given that we have had an argument and that we have had an almost identical situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14541	Thank you. Are there any more reported? If there are no reports, I will conclude the debate and put to the vote of the SNSD Club's proposal to leave a statement on this, this item of the agenda, for the next session. Please prepare to vote. You can vote. Now! At the request of the SDP Club, we repeat the vote. Please prepare to be focused. You can vote. Now! "For" 27, eight "against", one "abstained". I find this proposal accepted. I am going to the 10th item of the agenda, by warning the MPs that after this item of the agenda we will take a break by 15 hours so that we can rest and have lunch and at 15 o'clock we will begin our work again. The point is: 50 Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The draft law in the first reading was adopted at the 16th session of the House. The responsible Joint Commission for Defence and Security provided the report on 27 November 2007. You saw from the report that there were no amendments in the commission phase either. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft law in the proposed text. I'm opening a dispersion in my second reading. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. And, I ask the House to prepare itself for a vote on amendments and additions to this law. Please prepare for the vote, so as not to repeat the vote again. You can vote. Now! "For" 29, "against" was not, "abstained" six. I find that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Police Officers of Bosnia and Herzegovina has been adopted. We have a break until 3:00. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14546	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have invested 27 amendments, not only 19, but eight have been accepted and they have, in my opinion, been of a technical nature. On the Commission, of course, the results were different but, in order for me to make it easier for you and our colleagues, I suggest, since I assume that the amendments will be rejected, so as not to go first, second, third, fourth, 19th, in the package I propose to Parliament to accept these amendments in the package, because they essentially do not change the law but contribute to improvement. I said to the Commission, "Whatever law we pass, the people will drink brandy and wine to whom they drink." So they're not waiting for this law at the Palace upstairs to drink, me, to celebrate. To be serious, I've been asking my colleagues for a few parliaments to stick to the current constitution. Once we enter constitutional reform and change the Constitution, every law will be subject to amendments and additions, and it is not the Holy Scriptures or the Kuran that we will not change it, we will adapt it to EU conditions and, of course, to our conditions in BiH. I ask you once again, I am not giving up any amendments that have not been accepted by the Commission, but, if possible, in the package to declare all 19 amendments to Parliament, to accept these amendments, to pass this law, especially in the power of the Minister to – the Agency for Accreditation – determine which city it will be in and whether it will be in Sarajevo at all. What there are no grapes or wine or vines here, that my colleagues are not offended, and I've never done that in my life, and when something else happened to me, Sarajevo is the least drunk, at least in the federal section. And we'll drink wine together, if we adopt this law, not at my expense, again, because, well, to make the situation serious, don't at least make it difficult for us to complicate our position with these laws. And, I say, to facilitate all of this, I suggest, the chairman, that you put all 19 amendments on the table for Parliament to declare itself in the package on them. Otherwise, if they are not accepted, this is not blackmail, this is a real proposal, this law has no chance of passing. It is not possible to centralise everything here at BiH level and only as (under alleged signs)... whether there will be wine in the packaging glass or in the notebook or I don't know what, but essentially here changes are in order to avoid any co-operation or consultation or respect of the RS Ministry of Agriculture. 52 One more, please, do not work and break the Constitution of this land, and invite others to honor it. The way he is, he's in effect. Gentlemen of the presidency, you're listening to me, it doesn't matter what these people listen to: you, will you honor my proposal to put this in the package? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14547	Since Ambassador Lozančić asked to speak, I give him my word. For this reason it was a consultation, and we will put your proposal to a vote, because we cannot vote on all amendments at once, but we will put your proposal to the vote. If Dom accepts it, that's how we'll plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14548	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, respected members of the Council of Ministers, well, it seems to me, after a long period of time here in the Parlement, we have a law that means a lot to a large number of citizens of this country and that if we adopt it, we have a very important and important area in this country. Even though we today in this country do not have a law on wine and grape products, fortunately, the citizens of this country did not wait for us and for some other parliaments to pass the law, but are engaged long ago in the production of grapes and wine production and production and products from wine and grapes. For your information, because of those who may not have enough information about this very important branch of agriculture in BiH, today we have planted about 30 million chocolate vines in BiH. And it is produced without legal regulation. 90% of the products produced from these grapes are exported at very favourable prices. Fortunately, then, our domestic producers are not like us here in Parliament, because I have recently found that we here in the state parliament, along with 30 million liters of wine produced in BiH are of top quality, drink import wines and offer them to guests who come as guests to the BiH Parliament. Here, I accidentally got interested before this session, because I knew we'd have this wine law, to see if we had any domestic wines here; I know there are, and then I saw there's no homework but just import. Perhaps it is a relationship between us here and our producers, according to what is indeed a true and recognizable BiH brand that is recognizable beyond the borders of this country and which is already without our more significant support. When I say ours, I mean all the institutions of this country, it's broken into the European market and it's going on. We have all defined ourselves, and I believe that we have not given up on this commitment: that we will do everything to become a component of European integration as soon as possible, and in these integrations we expect some accessible, pre-accession funds, but we are now talking about the restrictions that will come after EU accession, especially when it comes to agricultural production. I think it's high time for this very important area to be regulated legally and, Mr. Jovičić, I, as far as I'm concerned, will support all of your amendments, even if I didn't think one of them was even good, just because we finally have the law and that we finally have this area, so here's to estimate after half a year that it's not good and let's change it like a lot of other laws that we're changing, but for the sake of the ones that we're sitting here for. Today in BiH wine from all parts of the world enters as the circumference of buildings and when our exporters need to carry out wine outside BiH, then 53 will be provided with a million barriers because we do not have an orderly area and we do not have the usual agencies that should certify what our people are doing here. So I use the opportunity to invite all of you today to pass this law, and with and without amendments, however we agree, but to send a positive message to a large number of citizens of this country who are doing a very good job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14549	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14550	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, I just want to correct what Mr. Lozančić said that we all drink foreign wines here, not domestic. I don't drink them, for exactly why they're on the side, and not just here, but nowhere. I only drink domestic products. And it would be good for you in the College to ask for responsibility with those who are in charge and who hold the wine side here and do not hold the local wines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14551	Of course, it's the college again. Dear Ambassador Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14552	I expected from a respected representative, a very active representative, that... more content would correct some of my remarks, but it's not my fault that you don't understand a lot of things, or what I said. So, I said that imported wines are being served here in Parliament, which, in my opinion, is a disaster. Unfortunately, we do not decide on the purchase of wine or anything here in Parliament, the College does not decide, but decides some other services. So, and I call on exactly that here in this country's Parliament to be purely domestic products. If you don't understand me, now I think I'm clear enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14553	Thank you. First, correcting an incorrect quote. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14554	I'm convinced Mr. Lozančić thought differently when he said it was a disaster to be served here by a foreign wine. I suppose he meant it was a disaster that was not served and domestic. 54 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14555	Dear Ambassador Suljkanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14556	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have indeed spent a lot of energy and in attempts to adopt this wine law and I have a proposal here that is somewhat similar to the proposal of my colleague Jovičić. It's about the package. I suggest that he give up all these amendments in the package, because it was indeed adopted by his eight who were not only amendments to technical nature and I think that today, by showing good will by giving up, he would contribute to the adoption of a very important and necessary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14557	Thank you. Replica: Dear Ambassador Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14558	I don't know, Mr. Suljkanović. Do I look so unserious to you that I would suggest something, and then give up? I'm a very persistent man, but on real grounds, on real, really, and what's pragmatic. I'd like to do a lot of things, but here's what I'd like to tell you why this isn't accepted on the Commission. It is said in many members here that, for example, it does not matter what the amendment is, that it is an institution and we have only added authorised institutions, meaning co-operation with the entity's Ministry of Agriculture and the Brcko District. What you want to say is why it is not accepted on the Commission, I fully agree with you. You wanted it only to be centralized here and to avoid any co-operation with the entity ministry. Well, I keep saying that: it's not possible now. That's the Constitution. We don't have any other options. But if you want to challenge everything and if you really want to put everything in some other plan just because it won't be in Sarajevo, I will give you support but, of course, I will never give up on this. Why would I suggest it and what would be the point of me playing with someone first, not myself or anything, and especially with this serious parliament. I will never again call on this parliament to respect the Constitution. I don't want the press to laugh at us, I don't want the people laughing at us, that I call on the highest legislative authority of this country to respect the Constitution. So what do we do at lower levels? Are we so insecure people? What the Constitution is is, it's constitutional matter to do that and, if you want, I repeat, it's not blackmail, accept this or you won't, of course, it's your business. But don't make us Srbin, I'll say no Srbin, these will be angry with the SNSD, blaming us for obstructing, as we're not. Now, we were at lunch: seven of us from SNSD, two of us drinking wine. So we don't care about this either, we don't make this for ourselves, we do it for the producers and those people who need to export 90% of their products. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14559	Okay, thanks. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? Dear Ambassador Lijanović first reported, so Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14560	I would like to suggest one conclusion: The Council of Ministers is tasked with ensuring that domestic wine and brandy is offered at a restaurant in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you, with this law to be made. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14561	Come on, please, let's get serious. We're talking about the law, we're not talking about the kitchen. This should be addressed by the administrative services and the services of Parliament both in the context of parliamentary issues or initiatives. Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14562	Well, here, after this series of replicas and corrections of false allegations or explanations of what was meant to be said, I'm going to say a few words about the importance of this law and I think it would really be very useful for us and that we need to agree how and in what way in terms of these amendments and the proposals already made and that we adopt this law anyway. In several previous sessions, there were a lot of discussions on the situation in the area of agricultural production, and wine production also, or grapes, and later on, wine also falls within the area, of course, including processing. I think that, that the solutions in this law are quite good, to a degree that should be precise and... unequivocal and I think that even without some additional amendments on which, if not necessary, I don't think it's necessary to insist that the law will be good. What was the worst: it would be that we do not adopt the law because on many occasions in recent years we have had letters from the grape and wine producers that they are in a bad position because... not all assumptions for the export of wine to foreign markets that are very demanding. Well, they mean everything that we can't, because we get capacities, we don't have legal frameworks from certification of evidence of quality, quality, geographical origin, etc. the production of wine, and what is necessary if they go out to the market. This law solves all this and brings our producers in, I would say, an approximately equal position with competition from the environment. I said about equal position, because it's not even yet equal, because with us the incentives for the production of grapes and wine are not, are not, or are not to the extent and amounts as it is in the environment. And what may be, here 56 came up one moment, and that is: BiH has initialled a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, and we expect to sign soon. And that means that we will soon begin negotiations on the chapters that it has; we have already formed a team or part of a team, yes, for those negotiations that we will have to fulfil naturally. A part of these negotiations, talks, will certainly be from an area of agriculture that will certainly be very demanding and difficult. And what is a fact: it is that, at the moment the country enters the EU, it has a recorded cadastre and planted vineyards and a number of chocolate vines and has no right to expand the Union so far, of course, without consent. Clearly, the agreement will never be due to competitors from Mediterranean countries, etc. Of course, we are in one specific position because the original jurisdiction for the agriculture area is not on BiH institutions but on entities and counties. However, I am also convinced that with this law, we will create assumptions and in some sense put the entity governments and governments of the county in charge of those through their incentives and through their policies led by and water in the area of agriculture to enable and encourage the producers of grapes and wine to perfect their production, to expand their plantations and to ensure in this sense certain funds in order to achieve a better and better starting position for BiH to quickly join the EU. And here, I would eventually ask all those who have tabled amendments not to defend at all costs every amendment. I think we should still be pragmatic and we should overcome our commitment to adopt this law today, with or without amendments. I don't think it's crucial. It is important that we get the law and then create better and better quality conditions for our grape, wine and grape and wine producers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14563	Thank you. If there is no one more registered for discussion, I ask the Ministry's representatives: does they need to take a word on the explanations or their position on the amendments? Here you are, Your Honor, Mr. nešković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14564	...the presidency, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to give you in some way more... knowing whether to vote for amendments, one or the other. What's important in this is that the concept of the proposed law of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in this law was one law, one institution authorized and one laboratory. The EU Commission Regulation 883201 regulated their market which was protected, which was monitored and regulated in such a way that each country should have legislation throughout the economic area it controls. So that is why it was a bill, a legal act, although it can be a sublegal act under EU regulations, so a regulation. We have proposed a law for the simple reason that, under that law, more sublegal acts should be passed. At the same time, EU standards prescribe two or 22 authorised institutions, depending on how the country approaches. And as for the lab, it can be three and 33, depending on how certain countries want to regulate it. The example of Slovenia which has several authorised institutions on 57 regional principles, which work to collect registers of grape and wine processors and the management of vineyards, and the aggregated data are sent to the Ministry of Agriculture which collects them and, as such, send them to Brussels for a joint cadastre. So this was the principle and one law and one authorized institution and one laboratory. The amendments submitted by Mr. Jovičić, an honourable MP, suggest that it be one law, means one regulation, two or more authorised institutions and also a laboratory. Both, if you decide, you won't make a mistake. With the first one, it might be... simpler to work, while the second proposal is much more functional from the point of view of certain policies and competences in the area of agriculture. I was on the committee on which it was decided, that is, to discuss the 27 amendments offered, where nine were adopted, the others were rejected. And I can tell you that's the worst solution. Simply, the more we have no concept of any institution, no more concept of two institutions. It's now broken in that case, too, if for example. This was adopted, the law would be practically impossible to implement. So, the concept is one as offered by the Council of Ministers, or respecting such amendments as Mr. Jovičić offered. We have analyzed the amendments offered by Mr. Jovičić and 27, for example. There are three of us, not to say unacceptable, but absolutely nothing in the law will improve, and the other 24 really define that other system: one law on the territory of the entire state and two authorized institutions and more laboratories. So it's up to you to decide. If you have any further questions, I'm here to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14565	Thank you. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Please, sit down. Are you done? You can sit down. Is there any need for any further questions, to open up a debate? Dear Ambassador Jovičić, then honourable Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14566	I don't know, Mr. nešković just confirmed what I was talking about. We have a state-level law. The fact that the registry will be somewhere regional, which is disturbing this country, if this ministry will go towards the EU as a whole and represent this country. The second thing I wanted to ask you is, what are the three amendments that are not acceptable to you, which they are? If it's such a thing that I'm contesting that maybe the law wouldn't be brought about by it, that I see what it's all about, so maybe I'll give up. But I don't believe, if 24 were to suit you, and that you accepted it and that you didn't have any objections, why would those three... when they were almost all complex by one principle. So, BiH-level law, this ministry, you represent it, only, I said earlier, instead of somewhere this ministry or one institution, says entity institutions and Brcko District. What would that... bother you or anyone else? 58 I repeat again, such is, if the constitution had been accepted, it would have gone far again, and the April package would have had the Ministry of Agriculture, and we would have, because we will have to fulfill... The EU and wait for that opportunity. What's the rush now?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14567	We're all at the same job, looking for a compromise on this law. The next came Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14568	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, I had no intention of taking the floor for this law, but the Prime Minister's statement from the ministry asked me to say a few sentences, given the need for BiH to adopt consistent and non-consistent laws. From what I've heard, there are two concepts, there are two approaches and the Council of Ministers has defined one concept, not by chance. The Council of Ministers communicates with the European Commission, has a Directorate for European Integration and it is perfectly normal and logical that this is a problem that is related to our European path and one thing happened on the Commission. Therefore, a certain number of amendments belonging to the second concept was submitted to the Commission to the Honorable colleague Jovičić, in relation to the concept to which the law was written. Some of these amendments have been adopted and have become an integral part of the text of the law, some have not been adopted and have been repeated today again as amendments on which we should plead. But from what the gentleman said, I apologize, I do not know the function – Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, Assistant Minister, is – I apologize, we practically now have a law on the table that has two concepts that are mutually opposed. So it's a tie. If we vote for such a law without amendments, then we will pass the law, since some amendments have been adopted that have affected the very concept of the law, so we will get unconsistent legislation. I would, since this law is an important law for BiH and it is also very important that we adopt laws that have been implemented, consistently, propose that this House return this law to the competent commission, that these amendments be seen by the Council of Ministers, because the Council of Ministers did not accidentally take one course and one direction to resolve this issue; that the Commission make up a new report afterwards and that we come here with a consistent text of the law, that when we vote for something that we know is what will be enforceable. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14569	Thank you. We have a little problem of a business nature with that kind of work, because this is a second reading, amendments adopted. These amendments are now making a problem with the law itself. But here we will see at the end of the debate what will come out of all this. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14570	Well, I listened to Mr. nešković with care. For those of you who don't know, an assistant at the Department of Foreign Trade for Agriculture. I, appreciating the arguments he has made about different concepts, approaches and also the importance of adopting this law, see the way out in the following: to reject the Commission's report; therefore, one possibility is to reject the Commission's report and to plead on the law, of course, positively, as we return to the original proposal, the proposal of the Council of Ministers. That's one suggestion. The second proposal is then to open up a whole package of parts of the amendment adopted by the Commission and a statement on the amendments, and then we will move on to another concept for which the Council of Ministers has not been defined. I truly appreciate the Council of Ministers' commitment. I have no doubt that Resolute Minister Mr. Puhalac has chosen the right way, and I appreciate it so much that it would be good to return to the original proposal of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14571	Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14572	As far as I understand Mr nešković, it is true that both concepts are involved, but none of these two concepts violate or dispute or interfere with the adoption of laws at BiH level. At least that's how I understood that you had no objections, no matter what you came out with one proposal. I repeat, again: the essence of the rejection of amendments is to avoid the RS Ministry of Agriculture. Whatever, get back to 100 commissions, I'll stay with this one all the time. And then, you're complicated by the situation yourself. Why does it bother to adopt this now, so if it takes three months, four months, when the agreement comes, when we have to adapt the EU, something bothered us to change. But why challenge the constitutional position now and put the law above the Constitution? I'll never let that happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14573	Dear Ambassador Dokić answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14574	Thank you, Chairman. After this whole discussion, I think it would be reasonable to consider this package of amendments proposed by fellow Jovičić, with the exception of these three amendments, which Mr nešković expressed doubts that they would not be in line with this other concept. And therefore, Neskovic's presentation shows that the Council of Ministers can also stand behind this second concept. He's more suited to BiH. Here, we heard that... one Slovenia, which is a completely unitary state, has a similar concept as this other concept. Since it seems to me that everyone cares about this law being passed and, it seems to me, that it would be good for this law to pass today, this second concept that would have decentralised these institutions is quite certain that it could pass today, if a certain number of MPs, 60 of those who have refused those 18 amendments, would be willing to accept those 15, for which the ministry can stand resolutely proposed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14575	The word has a distinguished representative, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14576	Thank you. Here's what I'm trying to say is that the laws we have in the procedure have been in line for a long time, let's say, they stick to the drawers, and then we have a problem saying who's in line with those laws and in what way. We will have these problems with a few laws for a while, I hope after those laws that come out of the Council of Ministers have the support of the parliamentary majority in this parliament. On the other hand, I don't think it's a question or concept anymore, it's a matter of common sense and a way of organising to get closer to our producers, to people on the ground. All these institutions that need to deal with cadastra issues, issues of licensing and issues that are not disputed, that our ministry at BiH level is communicating with Brussels and giving all these summary reports. On the other hand, no one here has opened up the problem of funding and equipping the labs, or the problem of how much money we need, and whether we're in this budget proposal that we need to get planned, so that such institutions can arm it. Those institutions cost money! We are not worth any labs that will not do their job properly, give fictitious licences for our wines or products that will then fall into the EU and will not be good at applying. We need labs that are well equipped, we need laboratories that will provide certificates for only extremely good and quality wines, and that will best help our manufacturers succeed. Therefore, my proposal is to support this law on this principle proposed by Mr. Jovičić, to be seen with these three amendments that are controversial and to bring all those agencies and laboratories closer to the manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14577	The word has a respected representative, Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14578	Obviously time has been spent and some dilemmas have not been resolved in relation to parliamentary working bodies - the Council of Ministers, etc. And I have no reason not to trust Mr. nešković that we now have one solution which is a combination of different models of solving this area. So, in the concept of one law, one competent institution, one laboratory, etc., several amendments have been incorporated which are part of the decentralised approach model. I am now not sure whether Mr. Jovičić's amendments will practically transform the overall model into a pure second model decentralised. That's what you need to tell us. 61 However, it is certain that this type of area should be decentralised. However, it should, in my opinion, be decentralised in a different way: to go there towards regions, according to areas where this production is dominant, if you understand me! So, not to follow BiH's internal organisation in terms of Brcko District and entities but to go to western Herzegovina, to go to northeastern Bosnia, to go to central Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. That's what a profession says where these regions that tang this area are. So I'm absolutely for such a kind of decentralisation. And obviously, I'm not going to speak the way my friend Slavko says - if it isn't this, it won't pass the law; it's not the way. We have to convince ourselves, prove to each other, etc., try to find solutions. They will not be supported in this variant either, so it is obvious that we will have to reunite with the Council of Ministers, although it surprises me, but I agree with Mr. Živković. We will have to... move on to this pure practice when we have things brought into line with the Council of Ministers and when we have the profession, the word of the profession, not to go into improvisation through the amendments and then, let me put it that way, we get half-declaration that we are not able to complete here. So we won't be able to support these amendments because we're not sure if they're making a pure concept.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14579	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14580	Right away, I'm gonna say to the esteemed Niki, we've got more, I've still planted 60 chocolate vines, so 9 million more and 60 more. I mean, she's making good grapes and that's a good thing. What I wanted to point out is this. I don't like the fact that a representative of the Ministry has come out here and said one thing. If we adopt as proposed by the Commission, then we are not in any of the other concepts and there is the biggest problem. The second thing, it has been said, is that by the second concept that, if adopted, three amendments from these are not. What are the three amendments? Tell us that we know that if we didn't and we didn't cross over, and we approach the vote means by these amendments, it means that we respect or don't respect this part, even though I would like what you, Mr. Belkić, are now saying. When the Council of Ministers delivers a bill of law and concept, then we only complement it in this concept, not to change the concept. That would be the best option because then they'd get quality and all. And finally say one thing. I would like to point out that this law should be fully supported in any way. And if we were to opt for a variant to leave it to the Ministry, let's say, don't transfer the potatoes to us and say it won't work, we won't apply it. You say you can accept it like that or you can't accept it like this, right? I would be the happiest, if we could get through to 28, if you could answer us – accept this variant or this variant and let us plead. I'd be for it, not to leave it to us who don't know anything about wine to discuss, to discuss the law. Or another variant, or another remark. I didn't sign the amendment, this law bears the meaning of wine and brandy. Rakius is nowhere in the law, so wine and wine products should be, so there can be vines, etc., etc. I mean, because he explicitly mentions brandy, and it's not in the law, no brandy is mentioned anywhere. So, I know 62 I know what a product of, can be a juice product! Therefore, I would ask, if a solution could be found for the Ministry to cut this dilemma, because the worst thing to do is to be in a law that cannot be applied and I think that, after this explanation given to us by the Assistant Minister, that, in fact, if we adopt it with amendments without these other amendments, we will have a law that is inapplicable.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14581	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dokić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14582	Mr. Chairman, I just want Mr. Belkić; therefore this reaction of mine is a kind of semi-replica to Mr. Belkić in terms of clarification. Mr. Belkić, as I understand it, supported one decentralised concept and this law with these amendments proposed by Mr. Jovičić, without these three, makes it possible. The law has not predetermined where she or she will be, now that we are not going in, and can right now be in eastern Herzegovina, western Herzegovina, there is probably no need in Savina because it really is not about wine production, but rather about wine grape products, on the one hand. On the other hand, the same way I understood Mr. nešković, he was completely explicit. The variant of the law with the amendments adopted by the Commission in some way gives a law that is neither of the other concepts, and the variant, if these additional ones were adopted, I don't know what, 17 without those three amendments, which Mr nešković pointed out, gives a clear concept – this second decentralised concept, noting that again the state ministry is going to determine where these decentralised seats will be, with the consultation of only entity ministries. So again, it's determined by the State Department. And it seems to me, indeed, that it would be a shame to finish this session without passing this law, and, if necessary, perhaps here are the MPs individually to get to know the amendments a little bit more in detail and the whole law in this concept as explained by Mr nešković. Since we're going to be in session tomorrow, nothing bad will happen if, here, we delay the statement of this law and for tomorrow, so we'll get a little bit better prepared and see this other concept... which seems to me would allow us to pass the law and, it seems to me, that we'd all be satisfied that we have one important law. And an answer to an esteemed colleague, Niki. I, for example, drink only homemade wine, which is what I produced what I buy in Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14583	Thank you. Wait a minute, for the replicas came the Honorable Ambassador Belkić, the Honorable Ambassador Jovičić and the Honorable Ambassador Sokolović, a replica, yes! Okay. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14584	In fact, it's half-tail, it's half-tail. So it's true, Mr. Dokić, that the Ministry, etc. will determine, I knew it and in this context I was saying, however it is true and it is true: in this way, with these amendments, we are practically... dissipating it in a large part of the segments and obliging it to consults, coordination, consent etc. So we don't have one clean position of the state institution, especially, you see, when it comes to imports and exports, etc. So we must have a clear view of the ministry, so that tomorrow there is no problem that we do not have a state institution that has the capacity and competence to meet European requirements and standards. So I did not approach the debate in a way: if these amendments are not rejected, we will not support the law; I have approached in a way that we are discussing, we are looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14585	Thank you. Jovičić: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14586	Well, more clarification. I was just now consulting with an assistant to see which three amendments are not responding, and I'm very proud that they haven't had any objections to those amendments that I insist on. Here's, let's say, an amendment to XVIII that's not acceptable to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14587	And you insist on everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14588	Of course, I'm not giving up. Here, Amendment XVIII, please, as far as we're concerned. In Article 70 (1) indent x) of the word, I stress, (under alleged signs) of labelling, therefore, there the quality is replaced by the word grading by the quality. Reason: More appropriate is the name of the classification. If that's all of the Ministry's remarks on this whole package of amendments, I'm proud to have proposed them and the assistant himself has said that they have no objections to what I have suggested and is not in any collapsing and no blackmail. On the contrary, we are putting BiH in a position to currently have a law that will answer for people to export what is most important. And if he's gonna have it in our restaurant, it doesn't matter, there's ten bottles again. They want to export ten tons, thousands of hectolitres, as it's called. So, the point is, I've just been with the amendments and I've guessed that he's not in any kind of collage with the Ministry's proposal, and I'm really proud. But you've found that remark, on these words of labelling, sorting, it's an honor to you. Instead of consulting lexicographers, sociologists, I don't know who. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14589	Please, just a minute. Let's talk more constructively. Did you, in communication with the assistant, have now told us that the three remarks made by the assistant appreciate that you are giving up on those three amendments.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14590	This isn't a microphone... this is ridiculous, which means... we need to get the lexicographs here.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14591	If so, it would help us a lot, if those three amendments were withdrawn, if they weren't much, if they weren't key.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14592	Two are previous.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14593	Okay, so. So two are the key. Okay. Let's take it in a row. Dear MP Sokolović had a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14594	I don't know, more, more... one explanation, but here it can be in the sense of replication. By listening to the discussions, I realized that it wasn't; so we have defined two concepts. What the Ministry has been doing as a proposal defines one concept... I would now, as a member of the Commission who has analysed the amendments, surely I am convinced, have made sure that there is no overlapping of these concepts and precisely these eight amendments adopted by the Commission are... amendments that do not spoil the concept and are not a problem, in my opinion,... Mr. Jovičić's amendments, except in the sense that they are going in another direction. However, if we analyse Mr Dokić's story, it will turn out that these eight amendments adopted by the Commission are necessary to eliminate because it will spoil this second concept. And please, whoever hasn't read the report, let him open this report a little bit, and let him see. These eight amendments we adopted on the Commission: the word is replaced by prices by expenses. I don't think that changes any concept. A word of supervision with the word inspection, a word of geographical origin with the word geographical origin...... perhaps here the assistant minister consciously or unconsciously, perhaps, has made a mistake among MPs in terms of determining what the concept is. I would really ask him to go out for a pay phone and to analyse these eight amendments adopted by the Commission, right in this direction,... making sure he tells us: this amendment changes the concept from this centralized to decentralisation because, otherwise, we will only be here or we have already fallen into a trap... discussion or negotiation – whether this concept is or not this concept. And I am responsibly saying that these eight amendments are not amendments that spoil the concept proposed by the Council of Ministers, that the Commission has taken care of it, and the package, meaning of these 19 other amendments proposed by Mr Jovičić, is essentially something else. 65 And here, who hasn't read, I'll just once again, one amendment that we've, in such a way, have we understood. Amendment X. Authorised institution shall be replaced by the words of the competent authorities of the entity and the Brcko District. This is something that is being transferred from this centralized system to a decentralised system and has just been taken care of by the Commission. I don't know, I think in this direction, if we're going to discuss this law further and these amendments, we should go and... set ourselves up, but I think that the Assistant Minister has made one mistake amongst the MPs and that he should come back for a pay phone... to explain these eight amendments to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14595	Anyone else have a replica? Dear Ambassador Rajilić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14596	My colleagues from... The Commission's replica. Amendment XIV says so. 'With six votes "for" and one abstention vote, the Commission adopted the amendment. An authorised institution is replaced by the words of an authorised institution, meaning more. That's one. And, Amendment X, I think that, XX, I apologize, 'with six votes "for" and one "abstained" vote, the Commission adopted the amendment: so, the surveillance of the word inspection. We all know where the inspections are: in entities, and we know what surveillance is. This means that it is formed at the level of the current Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So it's a whole different story, because you, when you put it back in the law, well, when you read what anybody does, it's different. Second, I answered, so I gave up. Mr. Bešlagić, it is impossible now that this law at this stage only that the Ministry should withdraw it – return it to the Ministry, as you say, to cut it off. I mean, that means we can't. Approximately, I think, the chairman, that it would be necessary to make... or pause or some sort of deal, because returning the law again, without some attitude of the House, in the Commission, I don't think... there's gonna be any point. So, the club presidents have to sit down, agree on what to do with this law, and here I suggest they see what to do with the Agriculture Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14597	Thank you. We'll give it a break according to the Rules of Procedure. If any of the clubs are looking for a break, I'll see after the debate is over, but we have to let everyone express their opinion on it. Dear Ambassador Kalabić, Matić, so Ahmetović, Okolić, Križanović; everyone signed up. Here you go. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14598	I'm afraid not, given that we've started a little confusingly not to end up like... I think... that we've brought a little confusing stuff, even though we all have a good, good intention and that maybe in a break we should try to clear up, let's see, let's see where we are! If I understand the matter well, and I will try to explain: if with the amendments adopted on the Commission, if we add Mr Jovičić's amendments, I understand that we have a concept that could be accepted here and a concept against, which the Council of Ministers can support and which is acceptable to them. I may have a misunderstanding about one or two of Mr. Jovičić's amendments and the assistant minister, but in order to try to clear that up in the break, and that we have this concept to see if it can go through or can't, so that it doesn't go on. It's the only thing that might give us a result, this whole thing would have to go in the direction of something that today, which we're not, we're not ready for today. And I think this would give an explanation and then the assistant minister comes out with some whole, after that break. This is what makes one acceptable concept and is acceptable to the Council of Ministers and to the amendment promoter and to vote on it. If there is no agreement, then, I'm afraid, yes, to better look between these two earlier proposals some solution, for purely reason not to waste time and in that name I will ask, if there is a need, one shorter break... ten minutes. Well, I don't know, maybe even a break can help this debate solve this issue, just because of a waste of time, nothing else, because obviously everyone's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14599	Dear Ambassador Ajanović: Business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14600	There's one thing that's not clear to me here, and I think we should draw attention to that. ... The Commission has adopted, I think, six or eight amendments of 12 possible, then these amendments have become an integral part of the Commission's report. The same day, Mr. Jovičić was to submit other amendments that were not adopted. Then it's not about 12 new amendments anymore. It's about four.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14601	19 new ones.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14602	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14603	And you filed 19 more? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14604	Please, so just a brief explanation given that it has been called to business: all 27 amendments have been made to the Commission. Of them eight were accepted, 19 amendments are being defended again in this second phase, so it's all business clean. I would ask those who have applied, the 67 I have called, and all in order to resolve this situation, to maybe give up the discussion and take a break at the request of the SNSD Club and try to take a break from here for half an hour to solve this. If they keep insisting on speaking, I'll give them my word. Dear Ambassador Ahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14605	So, I'm only interested in, to come to some solution -- is Mr. nešković, therefore, representing himself in this pause... or the concept of the Council of Ministers and Council of Ministers? So that's the dilemma. So he came out very, in one way... that left many here with a dilemma. So what's the right direction when it comes to this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14606	Thank you. I think we can do the same at the break at a meeting with the Expansive College, along with the Ministry's representative. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14607	Thank you. I won't be long either, if it's the mood for that break, but I think it's still about – today we're meant to be confused, it seems. I think that it is too difficult for the assistant minister to qualify as two concepts and that the adopted bill, with the amendments adopted, has violated a certain concept. Seems to me like it's an essential thing now. The problem is the concept, you know. What Belkić was saying is that we, that this is a proposal of a law that is compatible, is it, and is in line with... the European standards and the way we want to go. So basically, this is about a state institution that will communicate with the world about these standards. How things will be developed... by sublegal acts, how much will be involved and empowered by certain other co-workers in certain areas, it's a matter of practice and need. But there should be one address in the country responsible for the whole area and I think that there is nothing to dispute with the concept and that this bill with amendments adopted like this does not violate any concept. Here, that's my opinion, and I don't think, as far as I'm concerned, a break is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14608	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14609	No microphone 68 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14610	Wait a minute, please, wait a minute, wait a minute. I asked, I asked all those who applied for the discussion: whether they were giving up their application to take a break, that all of this we're talking about right now is trying to get rid of the club presidents, or the extended college and representatives of the ministry, and then people came forward, those who didn't agree to it in such a way to solve the matter. Now I ask again: will the MPs give up the discussion, to take a break? I'd ask you to handle things that way. I'd like to speak to you in Hall II/2 of the extended college, along with the representatives of the Ministry. [[PAUZA]] I must inform you that we have discussed this in the Expansive College, together with a representative of the Council of Ministers, that we have decided, in the following way, to absorb this item of the agenda: namely, I will not conclude the debate, I will give the possibility that our committee, together with the Assistant Minister of Resort, will re-examine this law and, in accordance with Article 118(3), propose new amendments which we as a college will accept as new aspects and that we will then vote on all this. So we're postponing this point for tomorrow, while they're being made in the meantime, as I said. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14614	All right, all right. The word has a distinguished representative, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14615	Thank you. In fact, we were just discussing the way in which we adopt laws and legal acts in this Parliament and we insisted on one: that the Council of Ministers' opinion is respected, and then we want the silences to go beyond the fact that this law does not have the consent of the Management Board of Direct Taxation, that it does not have a positive opinion of the Secretary-General, that there is no agreement between the entity ministries and that our members of the Commission – who voted in favour of this law from the proposed text where customs duties were proposed to be abolished and equipment cca about 70 million, thus reducing the inflow from customs to the budget, had a positive opinion from our ministry and a possible positive opinion of the Management Board for indirect taxation – raised their amended that figure to 140 million and received that we do not have a positive opinion from our respective ministry, nor a positive opinion of the Directorate for indirect taxation. For that reason, I cannot support this bill. I hope so, as we agreed at our meeting, not even the SNSD club. Thank you. Okay. Is there anyone else who can come forward about the debate? Dear Ambassador Suljkanović. /Shortly severed connection/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14617	...about only one member and it didn't even go to the board of directors for indirect taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14618	... The Ministry with this to answer? [[Common discussion]] Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14620	It is the Customs Policy Act, and my colleague Živković explained the items and arguments that are probably related to customs tariffs, and I think it would be good if we had 70 really clarifications, because I'm not sure the Customs Policy Act needs the opinion of the Executive Board of indirect taxation at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14621	Thank you. Is there anyone else who can answer about this? Please rest for 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Please, can we get started? Let's get on with it. I want to apologize to Dom for myself, if I've made a mistake. I have discussed practically both points of the agenda, and for one and the other, and I also have an opinion on one and the other points of the agenda – that there is no positive view of the Ministry. One of these points also needs the opinion of the Management Board, so here I don't think I'm going to discuss the second item of the agenda, but I've united my discussion for both agenda points. The following came to the discussion, honourable MP Lijanović, and Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14623	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I just want to help maybe with some details. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act does not require the approval of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board and I will quote you Article 25 which regulates it in the Law on indirect taxation in order to confirm that. Article 25 reads: On the day of entry into force of the law, the introduction of any indirect tax in BiH as well as the declaration or amendment of the legal rules on indirect taxation by the Federation, RS or Brcko District must be approved by the Committee. He refers to the Board of the Directorate for Direct Taxation. The Board shall approve any discretionary decisions relating to the exemption from or the application of indirect tax rates and structures relating to the legal provisions of the Federation, the RS and the Brcko District. Therefore, this article is clearly regulated, since the Customs Policy Act does not introduce any new rate, there is virtually no need to obtain the consent of the Board of the Direct Taxation Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14624	Yeah. This is necessary for the second law, and this law has the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Dear Ambassador Novaković, then Kalabić. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14625	Mr. Chairman, I have this opinion here on the bill proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and I would disagree, firstly, with this opinion and, secondly, I would disagree with some of the views that have been made here. This opinion, under 2nd, states: 'Article 180 (1) of the BiH Customs Policy Act, which reads: When provided for under the implementing rules of this law, customs authorities may also accept other types of guarantees which differ from those laid down in Article 185'. And this is not about anything but about other types of guarantees that differ from those in Article 185 and to be... a thing, therefore, quite clear: The Ministry points out that this should be addressed by supplementing the Implementing Rules Decision. I hope that decision is under the law. We want nothing more to do with this than actually help people make a decision, so they make that decision, because obviously there was no mood to make this decision so far. On the other hand, the Commission's attempt to make it possible for people to breathe, be careful, to customs, to allow them to use the bonds or I don't know, so now that I don't speak here, therefore, in another way, so, by verifying their own exchange, the exchange of giraffes, are in some way a guarantee that they will pay their customs obligations. Well, I guess there's nothing more natural than helping, because obviously we have a serious problem. Businesses cannot pay customs duties in the way that is now foreseen. I think that by adopting this law, we would help solve a problem. I don't see that we would reduce income in any way, so I don't see that we would reduce income in any way, and the protection mechanism is also defined by law through these lists. So, this issue of bonds, so as not to be that the bonds are free of coverage etc., is a guarantee: the property of the issuer. I do not see that it is possible to abuse these members of the law and I think that businesses would help in otherwise large problems when it comes to VAT payments or customs payments they currently have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14626	Dear Ambassador Belkić: incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14627	Or rather an incomplete quote. Mr. Novaković, you have commented on point 2. Reasons – Opinions of the Council of the RES, however, you have failed to speak of point 1. Which is very important... to hear here. I don't know if the Commission had this opinion in time and time, so it says at point one there that it should be said that it is a member 185. The Customs Policy Act is referred to as the current member who is now changing, completely identical to Article 193. EU Customs Code.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14628	Dear Ambassador Novaković: reply to the replica. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14629	Well, you see, I meant by my colleague that we're all fully aware of what article 1 says, but I was talking about Article 2 because he's talking about the Implementing Rules Decision. So Article 2 basically says that this... is not the opposite if the decision is defined like this. Therefore, I do not dispute that Article 1 is identical as a member of this, or Article 185, that it is identical as Article 193. The EU Customs Code and I assume they too have certain implementing rules. So, here it is done that, in my opinion, the Commission wanted to practically direct the Ministry to adopt its implementing rules in such a way as to enable this act to be made possible through them. I am that, I still think that this member, this position (2) of the Commission which she proposed – has allowed... the right to do so. I'd really like to, if there's someone from the Ministry, maybe I don't get it right, so let's say here's the thing. That Article 2 doesn't mean what you're... talking about, it means this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14630	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14631	... He can do it now. [[no microphone turned on]] Obviously, when this customs problem is that everything comes to trial, including technique, and that clearly this customs coalition is the strongest in Parliament, and I don't understand why it doesn't become a majority, although I expect it someday. And it's a real coalition, not this pathetic, so-called, or I don't know the other one, because this one has shown how tough it is and there's no way you're rocking it. You see, on several occasions today, we have been on some of the tests on how to work in this House and when we said that working in committees should be serious to the extent that it does not make the House's session difficult but rather promotes it and that we have said several times that the session is a commission in that function, and if the other commissions behave like some, like some. It would be the same as if we were on the Constitutional Commission for this law saying that here's the unconstitutional, here we take ourselves as a right and say unconstitutional and good. That's the position of this committee, so let's see what we do next. That's what I'm saying is that it'll probably lead us to this situation, that we'll act like it. If the Council of Ministers says this, I am saying that, probably, people who are not all the way to the end of this problem, Mr Belkić said the first part, and the second part says: Any change in the meaning of Article 185. The BiH Customs Policy Act would mean a change in the entire... system in BiH, with inconceivable consequences of customs revenues. That's the position of our Council of Ministers. And he's not, I don't think he's deciding, but if we don't respect that attitude and attitude, then we're introducing new principles. It's not a question, either, but that's true by all other points, by all other laws, by all other decisions, so we'll see where we're going to go. It's not just one commission in this parliament that's supposed to be working alone, to say, some breathe. Now, when you get some of them to breathe, the other ones, who are breathing now, will start breathing on the gills. That's what we should say. That's the essence of this story. We've said it a few times and we repeat it. It's as if we're not aware of how difficult this is matter and that there are people, institutions that have so many personnel and experts who are bound by law and constitution to deal with this issue, to provide us with relevant opinions for those who are not specialists in this area. I know some of us specialize, 73 it's not a dispute, but not all of us. I respect these opinions. When I do not respect this opinion, then we will probably respect the Commission's opinion and, on the basis of that commission, form both the majority and the Council of Ministers to implement these decisions that we adopt on the basis of the Commission's position and opinions. And that's not controversial. But someone else is the Council of Ministers with some opinion, a commission with their own, and, like theirs, it's not good, but this is our good. We have said this several times in this House that it is not logical that in one possible majority there are two such opposing opinions. It's not even correct, it's not correct. I can't insist on two, here's to not dedicating myself, but I can't insist on such two opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14632	Thank you. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Dear MP Mehmedović, Pa Novaković, and Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14633	.../a brief interruption of the recording... refers to the presentation of my predecessor, Mr Kalabić, when he mentioned that there was a Council of Ministers' position. I would certainly appreciate it if it were the Council of Ministers' position, but it is the position of one ministry, however, in charge of this area, but it is not mentioned anywhere in any legal act that the position of the competent ministry should be obtained, but by the Council of Ministers or competent institutions. Therefore, the replica refers to exactly that, so there is no Council of Ministers' position. I'd like to see him.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14634	I hope we've all got the paper we have here, because now we're going to cause an answer to that replica. Here you are, dear Ambassador Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14635	.../a brief break of the recording... in this way to talk. My last piece of information says that the attitude... She has the seal and the signature and she's not the minister. So please be careful, one minister's attitude! What do you need from the Minister of Fog? I guess it's how the Council of Ministers works. And we should, for who knows which time, say here. Look at what level this comes down to. This is not the Council of Ministers' position, and we are not going to say the principle that for all and one document, we should have the minutes from the Council of Ministers' session, the signing of the chairman, and it is not disputed either. I said, we have a problem with principles and then we can't... this way. And we can open this question -- if this isn't the Council of Ministers' position, let's just prove it. There is a method to prove it: the opposite attitude, the opposite arguments, and that's not the problem. I have the Council of Ministers' position at this point. The fact that someone thinks that everything that isn't prescribed is binding, and that it's binding from some of the other organs 74 dealing with a business that's to what extent they're, I'm not going to say, relevant but invited. We could get in trouble and...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14637	Thank you. Please read the first sentence: '10.9.7. years passed... The BiH Council of Ministers held at the 21st session, held on 6.9.2007, on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, established a Opinion on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act." I hope we don't go so far as to trouble what it says. If there are any, it's no problem that we go and that credible paper we have... we're asking to be delivered to us and the original. I hope... that all MPs have paper in front of them and that they can read that this is the Council of Ministers, not the ministry's opinion. Next for the replica, Ambassador Novaković, so Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14638	Well, you see, gentlemen, I would now like to list those who make up this customs majority: the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs which unanimously supported the principles and the law and which had not been amended; the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations at the head of the minister who – and please turn the other side and read what your minister said – said the following types of insurance instruments: 'In addition to cash deposits or jury, they are prescribed in Article 431... Decisions on the implementing rules of the Customs Policy Act in BiH. In the context of this article, issues raised by the Amendments and Supplements Act on Customs Policy of BiH should be addressed. ... On the basis of this initiative, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, which has been known to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations since earlier, this ministry has already launched the procedure for supplementing the Decision on the Implementing Regulations of the BiH Customs Policy Act in this regard." So, in the sense of the Customs Mafia. 'On the basis of the facts presented above, we propose to the Council of Ministers of BiH not to support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Customs Policy Act, which is proposed by the Commission. We also propose to the BiH Council of Ministers to support the foreign trade and economic relations ministry's efforts to implement this initiative in a law-based manner." So it's not about whether or not this is about who's going to do it! Shall we: Commission or will the Ministry propose a law? It... so written, I don't know if you see this or don't see it. He says we do it the right way, so we do it the same way, but in another way that's legal. And that's what the minister wrote and the Council of Ministers wrote it. I don't see it now, I really don't see what the problem is. Here, come on, say this isn't good that I read it, or that this isn't the man he meant when he wrote it. Maybe that too, maybe he didn't mean this, but the man wrote in three sentences, in three places, in three of his proposals he wrote that the Council of Ministers, or that the Ministry is working on this right now but in a legal way, because this is not legal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14639	First, let's take it in a row. Dear MP Hadžiahmetović goes, so Kalabić, so Zorić, Rajlić, Sokolović. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14640	I have all the corrections of the false quote and the replica and the business intervention, so here, then just to explain the priority. First of all, let's explain the paper that came. From the ministry came what counterpart Kalabić mentioned earlier, a colleague of Živković, the ministry's opinion, is therefore delivered at the conclusion of the Council of Ministers. I think we should put an end to the story of whether the Council of Ministers is behind this or just one part of the Council of Ministers and please don't talk about it. The Customs Policy Act, here, and just before, the law that we had on wine and several other laws were here on several occasions, by some fellow Members and fellow MPs, distracted it by the inconclusiveness of work, but I also know serious people who are in the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs as well as serious people who work at the Ministry of Foreign Trade. I want to distract, so we have a problem. Is the problem here in the communication of the Commission with the Ministry of Foreign Trade or is the problem in the disharmony of that communication? Do these opinions of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers come afterwards after establishing a proposal, or is this a completely different approach in the work of the Commission and the Ministry of Foreign Trade? I am only talking to this occasion, because here we have been discussing for hours, delaying a statement on one law, and also because we have had unconformed views of the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Resort Commission. I do not admit that it is inconclusive of the work of no one or the Council of Ministers... nor of the Commission, knowing the members of the Commission, but obviously that there is a problem somewhere and it might be good for this Parliament to be pictured and what the problem is, so that we no longer face such a problem in the future. I am speaking in general about the communication of the competent authorities, the Parliament and the Council of Ministers. We now have one situation in which the Commission has proposed something like an amendment of a member of the law that is fully in line with the European law, which is not at all in collegiate with sublaws. So, the practical amendment to the law, as shown by this interpretation of the Ministry, would refer to the fact that the component of the law as something regulated by the sublaw in the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Somebody correct me if I'm wrong! I understand myself well in this law and in the problem behind it and we can, of course, ask the question: Is there a need to change this law because of giving a specific weight to the sublegal act of a legal member? This is what I'm talking about. Second, what position could we be in if we eventually adopted, for example. The law. I'm not going to say we're deaf about the Ministry's opinion, because it has a political dimension, but in what position we can come to now if we, for example, do. adopt a proposal from our commission that is neither against, nor changing anything drastically, nor anything anyone gets. Mr. Novaković, indeed neither who wins nor who loses this change,... because it has already been incorporated into sublaws, and we have a law that is European. So you can find the arguments for both of us. Of course, confusion has the same reasons as it may sometimes have in our proposals, but I want to believe that it is more than perhaps out of the absence of coordinated co-operation between the competent authorities, Parliament and the relevant ministry, or, perhaps, sometimes less misunderstanding, rather than indifference or evil intentions. And I'd like to give up the discussion of this kind rather than approach the solution in concrete terms. 76 I am not sure that we can ignore the views, or arguments that are mentioned in the Ministry's opinion, that I want the Commission or anyone from the Commission to understand that it is in some possible, in some disharmous position of the Ministry and the resolution committee, putting it on some side. I'm not sure this is a good way to work for this House, because we've been exhausting ourselves for hours, but I ask you to pay attention to the arguments given in this letter, not a very promising address, because the address is adequate. Maybe it's confusing, so you need to get a little bit more deep in your reasoning. If there's any further explanation, here, if there's no one here from the Council of Ministers, or the Resort Ministry, there's us who understand each other's content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14641	Thank you. Kalabić, Rajilić, Zorić, Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14642	.../a brief interruption of the shooting/... I can accept what Honorable colleague Hadžiahmetović said and I agree that no one here is unserious. If someone's looking for a change, I'm not so naive that some, let's say, parts of the commission deal with such an irrelevant question, so it doesn't matter if it's one way or the other. No question deals with under six zeros, and it doesn't matter why this is like this. But I want to know, I'm not an expert, and now I want to know why it's important, and now I'm going to be interested in it myself. Because one part of people aren't lawyers and they can't sublegal regulations, I know what it means to be in law and they know why they don't let it, why they can't do it, and they wrote it here, they wrote it here. It seems to me that counterpart Novaković spoke when he said Minister of the Ministry, the Council of Ministers, in a legal manner, that means it is a very broad term in a legal way. So the law says how to treat an act, a sublegal act, where it's a place, that's the legal way. It's not the legal way to put everything you think in the law. And it's clear, it's clearly said. That's why I'm saying I didn't finish, I have to be honest, I've done it all the time, and we can deal with it, but we don't seem harmless at all, and that's definitely the problem. That's where we agree, that's the problem. On the one hand, on the other hand, a serious group of people is dealing with a serious issue, and apparently one in a wedge, one in a board. We must definitely be interested in what's going on here! I think it's a very serious matter. You shouldn't be anyone naive... to disagree with that. We can... maybe try to pull something or say something that someone doesn't know or maybe won't know, or at some point in time, but I think it's a serious thing because, if both groups are very serious, I don't think they're dealing with a non-serious subject, so it doesn't matter if it was one way or the other. I don't think that's it, that's it, that's it. And finally, what was said about the coalition. If there's already a customs coalition, I don't know what the SDS puts in it every time. If there is, leave them. You don't need to supplement it, you need to let it work if it already exists. That's not true. The Council of Ministers does not make decisions, final decisions, the commission does not make final decisions, does not make final decisions, but somewhere along the way, at the finals, it tries to create another ad hoc majority. I said, why on this particular issue? Why, if there is a parliamentary majority, why does it not operate on all 77 issues, and why the opposition is no longer in all opposition issues. Well, we're most of the environmentalists, but we're in the customs policy of the opposition, the minority. Well, it's not a very good division, it's not. She's not fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14643	Thank you. Dear Messenger Rajilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14644	Gentlemen, today I haven't often been involved in this problem, and I need to say why. For some private reasons, I did not participate in the work when the Commission decided on these issues and, therefore, I do not have sufficient insight into what was happening on the Commission. So I can't even speak in terms of decision-making, decision-making, reasoning, but what we got here on the tables stands. However, I have a duty as a man, as an MP to say a few things. First of all, I fully support Mrs. Azra, our colleague who told us all what this is really about. What I can add and what I understood when this initiative was launched: there is such a decision by the Council of Ministers in the former meeting, however, it does not apply to customs. That's how it's explained to me. Is it really like that or not? That's the way it stands! Furthermore, I want to touch the previous points of the agenda and the ones that are coming because I have said several times, watch out, there goes the Agriculture Act. I have been publicly calling from this pay phone and the College to be involved in the work of this commission because we definitely have... a large number of laws in this commission... that stand for two to three months. So, we've got two laws coming up, I'm sorry to step away from the agenda, amendments to the Customs Tariff Act -- one of our commissions, one of the Council of Ministers, etc. where the College might have been able to comply and see which law we're moving on. Of course that didn't happen. Secondly, I think, besides stories like this, it means that there's some kind of unprincipled customs, let's say, the mafia, I don't know what, either in the commission or in the assembly or I don't know what I'd call them,...there's a congregation majority here. I, indeed, would launch an initiative to reshuffle this commission, if so, if so, if it were such an opinion in this House because I think,... if these laws are wrong, and here's the Ministry says it's not, so some processes are going on that aren't right. Why should we come under the pressure of the media if so, means if there are such arguments, so it's the least trouble to change this composition of this commission and continue to work... properly. Secondly, I don't think one part of these laws is solved because of a lack of hearing, and I will say quite responsibly, and members of the Commission and members of the Council of Ministers. I'm not just thinking directly about the minister, because I'm thinking about people who are all involved, and I'm thinking about us. It seems to me that somehow this communication between us, the Council of Ministers, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board - simply does not work. 78 Here, once again, so I'd like to ask the College to get involved in all of this and see where we are in this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14645	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14646	I thank the president. The president should now tell who I have the incorrect assumption, right? In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 70(2) of the correction of the incorrect quotation shall be made immediately after the incorrect statement has been made. Now I will repeat that I am correcting the allegations of my colleagues, Novaković. So, counterpart Novaković asked the chairman the question: Why not turn the other page? (The letter read by Mr. Novaković was dated 15.8.2007, where the minister writes what he would suggest to the Council of Ministers and then the minister has a second letter of 10.9., where he says - we found it in session 6.9.). So it's not the same letter at all, and it's the correction of an incorrect quote, so it's two letters. First, where the minister says what he will propose at the Council of Ministers and secondly after a Council of Ministers session, he says the result of the Council of Ministers. I'd take another chance to say... I agree and welcome the efforts of this commission and the activities, however, I am not very glad that this committee from its portfolio takes over the role of the Council of Ministers. I don't know what this is, but the law of that commission. Perhaps, this commission can launch an initiative, so if the Council of Ministers doesn't respond – as I intend to launch the initiative that we form an inter-resor group...that this law and the next law, especially if we are talking now, someone has told us about both – to make one working group whose head will be a representative of the Council of Ministers, to make a full change, let's say, the Law on Excises, or Excises, because it's only partially touched. There are a lot more major procedures, we remember in 2004 when we passed this law that was especially a story of luxury, and never, ever again, there was a change and addition in that direction. Here, I apologize for making a brief comment except for correcting the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14647	Thank you. Wait a minute. We'll take it in a row, just a little bit. First, Sokolović and Novaković and Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14648	The replica to Mr. Kalabić, because I think, we'll remember after these words I've spoken... about what Mr. Kalabić was talking about. So, it fell a lot... 79
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14649	Please just make it a little louder.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14650	... short-circuited footage... of Mr. Kalabić's indiscipline. So, here, if we're going to respect the principles, right now let this committee sit by the proposal of the previous wine and brandy law, but to solve this problem immediately. Why am I talking like this? So, in 26.6.2007, the Council of Ministers sent a proposal for a law on wine and brandy and other products in the parliamentary procedure and then a SNSD of 27 amendments appeared, and this is no longer the principle of what Mr Kalabić is talking about here. So, in that direction, give it a little more constructive to work, talk and solve some problems, and not to guess if there's a mob, there's no mafia, etc., so it's all stories, but this is evidence. So, the Council of Ministers referred to the procedure of the law, we violated the principles, the 27 amendments gave, the Commission sought in those 27 amendments something that could be... acceptable not to disrupt the concept and we went over it. Here, now we're talking about principles. I think we need to solve these problems in a different, more constructive way so that we can adopt these laws. Otherwise, by guessing ad hoc, we won't get far. (?) Wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14651	We can do this a little bit in a row now because Novaković is then Izetbegović in a row, then Kalabić. Here you go, Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14652	Look out, the Ministry is 15.8. ... brought opinion and gave it to the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers respected the opinion and gave the ministry a warrant to deliver it to the Parliamentary Assembly and the Ministry delivered it, in the text, to the Parliamentary Assembly. So it is true that the date is earlier, but the date is earlier because it was delivered to the Ministry, and then the Ministry gave the order to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly in the same text, because there is no other opinion other than that. So this is the opinion of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers. So the Ministry delivered it to the Council of Ministers and it adopted it. I don't understand what the problem is again! If this is an opinion, which it is, then I am not in anything but in the position of this opinion. So what I'm talking about all the time is the position of this opinion. But if the problem is, here I accept the problem that it can't be regulated by law but should be regulated by some other act, so which minister here called the Implementing Regulations Decision... /Short termination of the relationship/... Let's adopt a conclusion asking the Ministry to define this as defined by the Implementing Regulation. And people said they would. So we're helping them, getting out of this situation. They say they're working on it, we give them a mission through the conclusion and we don't even have to discuss the law. Here, I think that's how we can get out of this and become all part of the Customs Mafia. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14653	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, I would agree with your discussion, except for the last one. I have prepared that conclusion, but I cannot come from you to the word to suggest it: to require the Council of Ministers to inform the House within one month at which stage the procedure is complemented by the Decisions on the Implementing Regulations of the BiH Customs Policy Act in the area of how to secure the customs debt guarantee. If that's how you want us to settle this, that means we're voting against, to vote for a conclusion, we have the possibility of getting out of this agenda. If you don't want us to end it that way, I'll put it in order, as I have suggested, all the replicas and discussions. [[Common discussion]] If you don't mind, I'd like to conclude the debate and ask you to plead first. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14656	Heavy words fall, yet some reasoning needs to be given. Namely,... for a customs debt you must have a bank guarantee – it costs money. Whatever you're moving in this country, the bankers are slightly exploited: 1%, 2%, 5%, 12%. The company can fail, do bad business, fail, fall apart, but the banker will make money, you know. I took my first loan in my life a couple of years ago, 20,000 marks, and they told me they'd keep two, so they gave me 18, and I filled the paper like I was, like, joining the EU, until I got to those 18,000. As director of the Bureau, I got $5 million from the UNHCR. I don't know where, from America, 10 or 12 years ago. One percent took in a few seconds, only 5 million marks passed towards Sarajevo, they took 50,000 marks in a few seconds. That's the way it is with the bankers. In one good business, you can earn 10% a year, it's a good business to make... a 10% profit, and the interest requires you 9%, so you're left with one. And so all the time, the bankers are all over you. They can fail the state, they won't fail the bank, they're fatter, they... out of everything come stronger. Savings can ruin debt, they won't fail, they're even... stronger behind it all. So this was a way to get a little loose. As I'm an engineer, I'm not an economist, as I as an engineer realized that all those... who import a little, as Novaković said, were given some air. However, it is necessary to give air to all. I too find it disturbing what counterpart Kalabić said that some will come into the air and that some others will breathe on the gills. If we're gonna pass laws, they shouldn't... cover an exclusive, some... privileged firm. I, for me, have to admit, a tunnel where I don't see... who would breathe on the gills, who would breathe on 81. I just see that it would be good for all of them to get rid of these interest-bearing things that... do banks. If we could free this economy of ours, it would be good. One day we will do what is done in the EU. But we're not the EU, this is a transition society, here we need to help these companies survive. So I saw it like this, and the SDA Parliament Club believed... the commissions that brought it in, for their own good, and we support it. And we will continue to support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14657	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14658	Mr. Chairman, I, my colleagues and colleagues, particularly apologize for not accepting here that we make a statement on the conclusion. A good part of what I meant to say has already been said by fellow Izetbegović. So, the most I've reported is that I'm responding to this... qualification of people who advocate amendments to the law: to become part of some coalition, let's not say, mafia. I can tell you right now: as long as I'm in commissions, who have their own powers, I'm going to be part of this mob, and I'm not going to say in principle that I can, and those who think that we're motivated by these changes, that we're part of something, then I can qualify them as part of the banking mafia, you know, because they're protecting the interests here just banks and no one else and they're going against exporters and importers. The question is, what are we doing here? Are we here serving our businessmen, BiH citizens or are we serving here to protect an institution that is tasked with ensuring the revenues, the government's budget revenues from a possible half a billion to a billion surplus and that everything is fine. I'm not going to work like that and I'm going to belong to a team, so coalitions, and it would be good if the parliamentary majority were part of this majority's customs. We have installed, therefore, the Management Board as a sacred cow and that nothing can happen without it in this country. The Council of Ministers and this Parliament has been amnestirati, because that's where we installed the stranger and I won't go any further. So, I am deeply convinced that this has had a good lesson and a message and it will nevertheless have its own goal, whether through amending the law or whether a certain BiH institution will do so by means of a sublegal act... This kind of passiveness and relationship and this Parliament, I often repeat, puts MPs who have no capacity, agree, and the ability and expertise to make good laws but are, I'm sure, their intentions are always good. We now have a situation that over the past year we have more initiatives of legislative proposals by committees and MPs individually than by competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14659	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14660	There's no need, there's probably a chance that we can discuss this in some of the next discussions, and I didn't think I was answering, but I can't leave over two things, not to mention, in the end. I was at the Expansive College, and today in the debate, I said, because of what my colleague Sokolović said earlier, that we had entered the situation because the Commission did what the Commission did. I'm completely in agreement here, there's no room for that kind of quote. And we came out of trouble – the question is whether or not the problem is the situation. And... that's what we warned you about, on that question, and on this one. I just insisted that it was definitely a problem and that we just have to look at what we're going to do and how we're going to get out of it. And I said I don't have the capacity, nor do I think I could have done it in an hour or, I don't know how, ten minutes to put this area all... on the table and if I knew everything here, all the details like my colleague Izetbegović said. Mr. Izetbegović, if you are neglecting the fact that the Council of Ministers have spoken this sentence, I will not ignore it, with respect for what you have said – what would have been the consequences. Then we need to see what we can do. Here, we said, we agree. We have two serious groups with completely opposed attitudes. I'm not the one who can resist this situation, but can we at least agree that we have a problem? So that no one should hold one side, I guess these are serious people too, I guess these are serious institutions, they didn't write this either, I don't know, or, if we're going to open the debate, once we're going to put it, maybe it's... maybe the situation is mature and we're going to put it once as, like, I'm not going to say a special session, but let's discuss these issues, and let's not involve ourselves like this, maybe here and everyone else, partial and maybe even incomplete, but I don't want to go over these, these facts that, I'm talking about the opinion of an institution that I don't want to go through,... through the Council of Ministers that is supported, which is going to be supported. One can't survive, we have to agree or we'll live with that problem and then it's not, it's not, it's not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14661	Wait a minute. Dear Ambassador Jerko answered first. Is it a discussion or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14662	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14663	Discussion. In the meantime, just a little while, Ambassador Matić. Replica, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14664	Long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14666	Although I must admit that, in the meantime, Mr. Novaković has been fenced in some way and... from the original position, that correction of the wrong allegation, in relation to what he said, concerns 83 of that, quoting points 3 and 4 of this letter of the Ministry and which became the Council of Ministers' opinion, said that, obviously, the Council of Ministers: is it vain or jealous that someone else is proposing the law, so they will propose the law with this content. Later, in his second statement, however, he admitted that the Council of Ministers, in fact, and this ministry, is considering a decision to amend and supplement the Implementing Regulations, as stated in paragraph 2 which no one here has quoted, and where Article 189 of the existing Customs Policy Act is quoted: Where provided for, additional guarantees may be introduced under the implementing rules of this law, and this suggests... that this issue should be addressed by supplementing the Implementing Rules Decision. It is later underlined in points 3 and 4 of this ministry and the Council of Ministers. And with all this, let me just say one more sentence, two more. It is good that there are initiatives in this Parliament, and even proposals for concrete laws, both by individual representatives and by our working bodies, commissions, committees, but it is not good that in the final text of the law offered as a proposal to this Parliament, which comes from such groups is totally ignored and even ignored by the Council of Ministers' position. In particular, it is not good if members of the parliamentary majority do as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14667	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14668	Indeed, I greatly respect MP Križanović and the years and the experience, but I cannot believe, if he accepted on his behalf, let him accept whatever he wants, and I, in my name, will never be a member of any mafia, nor customs, nor political, nor any other. On the contrary, until I became an MP, I've fought the mob my whole life, and I'm going to fight now and as a politician, so as a politician. But that doesn't mean that if I have some attitude that doesn't match the attitude of some colleagues here, that I have to be classy in some mob. I will never accept that, and, of course, everything is allowed here, it's not an insult, but, gentlemen of the Parliament, let me just tell you two or three more sentences. Why is there a situation like this? At one point, the Commission went ahead of everything. She couldn't wait for the Ministry, the Council of Ministers, I don't know what happened, and there was, I'd say, suffocation at the entrance. And now everyone's looking for a way out, now it's important to find a way out. So let's find a way out of this situation. So it happened that I was almost every time and my colleague was too much voted on by that committee for all sorts of things. Of course, we have also supported what is in the interest of this country, which does not conflict with the Constitution of this country, I keep repeating. But that doesn't mean, if I was against something and I'm expressing my position and, of course, if I'm a member of that committee with your support and parliamentary majority, and not the parliamentary mafia, or I don't know who I should define now in any way, with idygnation, I won't say with indignation and I've never been, I've always been temperamental, but I've never been angry, I refuse any illusion, namely, that I'm a member of any mob or under the influence of any lobby of this and that. And you know what's on that committee. From exports of plums, pears, apples to arms and imports and vice versa. So, never on me, I'm publicly saying, I'm sorry that there's no camera, no one's going to affect. And neither is my club boss, nor is my party boss, to support, and thank Bog they don't, neither do they, because they're honest people. 84 Why should you bring us, gentlemen, as members of this committee, in the position that here we ourselves are now talking about ourselves whether we are members of some mob! I will never accept that, Mr. Chairman, and let those words be heard. You guys are having a great session, but Mr. Križanović surprised me that he accepts it, which I know is a decent man. _________(?) I'm afraid we don't understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14669	Please just listen a little bit, let's finish this part of the agenda. Dear Ambassador Novaković had an incorrect quote, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14670	The concept of this customs mafia has... brought into Parliament the chairman of the SNSD Club and Mr. Jovičić as a member of this commission, meaning, as a member of this commission who unanimously proposed this law, he did not find himself there. And I don't find him here. When I was talking about this, then of course, that's what I was saying, under the supposed signs, about the Customs Mafia. Because if that were true, I suggested, after all, a conclusion that is identical to the chairman's conclusion that he intended to suggest it. So it doesn't matter to me whether this is defined by law or not, but whether it's regulated or not. If we regulate in the right way to enable a passing one, we've done the job, either in law or in this decision. So here I support the proposal for the conclusion of the chairman he read.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14671	Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14672	The koleginica, respected colleagues, are listed in the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act. And there's no customs mob anywhere, or any of what's called the mob. Please, Chairman, stop this and move to the agenda point to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14673	I'm asking you half an hour ago to do so, but we continued the discussion. Don't accuse me of what I warned you about half an hour ago. And I won't limit anyone in what he means to say here, but once again I ask you to get back to the agenda point and get this agenda done. To finish the next item of the agenda that is related to this agenda point, and it would be desirable, given that our Civilian Minister is here, that the agenda point he suggested, which I do not think is disputed, is to end today. And that's why I'm asking you to work in that direction and that, if it's six o'clock, we're not looking at the clock, we're looking at it today. 85 Dear Ambassador Lijanović had the wrong quote. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14674	I'm sorry since we probably said the hard words, but I'm not one of those MPs who mentioned the customs mafia. And it can't stay with me, that, if it's others, whether my debate has initiated some further things. So, I didn't mention it, I mentioned the problem that exists in this parliament between the commission and what, who or how recognized or continued connotations carried out, just so that it didn't remain that, that's what the head of the SNSD Club said. I didn't say that. Some others pulled it out. What they meant by that, let's leave it for another chance.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14675	Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14676	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I will give an example of who may paintly reflect this debate on this law. My father had two daughters and...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14677	Please, just listen to each other for a second. Short-interrupted recording
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14678	...and in fact, she was afraid to tell her father and now her sister to help her tell her father that that's how it happened and he punished her sister for saying that this sister was pregnant. We now have accusations on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs which is very detailed, very studioy and very valuable trying to justify the salary it receives in this House and decryptes very important things in our system that need to be fixed. This is also confirmed by this 15.8 letter of the minister who agrees that the problem has been decrypted, only needs to be solved by his view, not legally as commented here, but in a legal manner. So, on the law existing that through existing sublaws, as colleagues here have spoken. Since it was 15.8, and today it is 12.12., perhaps we are discussing and discussing, it is likely that humans have long ended and we do not have the need to adopt this law. So I would suggest that we wait for the morning, that someone, before the session starts, tell us if... this is over. If it's over, we don't need the law at all, because four months is enough for this decision to change, if it's intended to change. And if it's not over, let's see what's the reason it's not over. Because we have recorded in the Commission that this has been a major problem for a long time which has stopped the development of the BiH economy, which also contributes to a deficit that will be a billion marks larger this year than it was last year and, if the parliamentary majority signed the principles that will reduce the external trade deficit, and it has increased by a billion marks – imagine our budget is a whole billion and some marks. 86 The proposal is to wait until morning for someone from the Ministry to tell us if this is over. If it's over, we don't need to pass the law, if it's not over, let's see why and then figure out whether to adopt the law or wait for the Council of Ministers, actually competent institutions to sort it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14679	Thank you. I think this conclusion that I suggested solves it. But, look, if there's no one else to report for the discussion, I'm the one who's closing the debate. And I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote on the Amendment Law and the amendments to the Customs Policy Act. The proposal is from the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, second reading. You can vote now! I'm taking five minutes off, and after that, we repeat the vote. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Please take our seats. Professor, we have to vote. Taking into account the listing and what the honourable MP Okolić showed us, and then Jovičić said they were not registered for the vote, a request for a re-vote. I am putting the motion for a law on amendments and amendments to the Customs Policy Act again. Please prepare to vote. And vote now! "For" 18, "against" 16, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we have passed this law. Since we are all tired and obviously lack concentration, here is Ambassador Kalabić's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14681	Although we have agreed until when we will work and respect that Minister Nović is here, and that tomorrow will not be, I would pray, if possible, point 15.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14682	Please, run in front of the ore, I'm in that direction and I wanted to suggest. Namely.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14683	Okay, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14684	So, even though we are tired, if there is a desire and will in this House to finish the next two points of the agenda. I'm in, if they're in, let's keep working that way. I'll Shvatić this as an approval and move on to the 14th item of the agenda: Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises in BiH – Proposer: Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs (second reading) This legislative proposal was adopted in the first reading at the 16th session of the House. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. We received a report from the committee responsible on 30 November 2007. The Commission adopted the draft law, with the adoption of four amendments in the plenary phase. Ambassador Vinko Zorić has submitted four amendments that he wants to defend at the House again. I've already had my discussion about it, and I don't think I should answer it anymore. And I'm opening a debate about this law. Dear Ambassador Zorić, Ambassador Lijanović, after that. Let's take it in a row, please. Dear Ambassador Lijanović has a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14686	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I'm afraid this law will bring us a lot of debate. I would suggest we skip this point, end the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14687	Please, that's not what we agreed on. We agreed to continue our work. I don't have to put your proposal to a vote, because we've already talked about it. Dear Ambassador Zorić, then honourable Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14688	Although I have submitted four amendments, I propose that we reach a conclusion on this item of the agenda: To form an Interresor Working Group for making full amendments and supplementing this law, headed by a representative of the Council of Ministers and representatives of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. 88 If there's an agreement for one such conclusion, I don't think we're gonna spend a lot of time... on this agenda point. Of course, after a statement or before declaring this conclusion, let us also state ourselves about the law. I, I... suggest we make a negative statement about this law and support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14689	Thank you. It would be good for you to formulate that request, it would be a good idea to formulate that conclusion in writing... and that at that request you have the support of clubs in writing to know whether or not that conclusion can go through, and I will put it on the vote before the law is declared. However, I must continue to give to whoever wants to report for the debate. Dear Ambassador Rajilić came forward, so Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14690	Yes, under this is another law that passed the Commission we were just talking about. However, I must say that I was at a meeting this morning with the secretary of the Board of Directors of Direct Taxation and my knowledge is that they are already in the procedure at the next meeting of the Management Board, which is on Friday, they have a law on amendments and additions to the Excise Act. So, already one amendment and addition, probably, the Council of Ministers' proposal,... goes in that sense. That's why I would support this Zoric conclusion, in case this information means it's not true, that we're going in that direction; if they are, we'll see if they meet the requirements of the economy that were listed in that debate in March of the month, if we can't, then we can, if we can, work on changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14691	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14692	Given... so, here's probably Mr. Bahtić's gonna say he doesn't have the support.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14693	Dear Ambassador Bahtić, Pa Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14694	I must say, the law has received the support of the Finance and Budget Commission. Wait a minute, did we, first of all, discuss it three times and Piter nikol signed from the board of directors that within 30 days he would respond and give his opinion. We waited, the Commission did, and we didn't get an opinion within 30 days. However, this is a legal state and we respect deadlines. And we have also debated for the reason why this law goes in favour of domestic production, we have passed this law and therefore... should go towards a proposal to amend this law, that more Management Board of indirect taxation, that it does not need its consent than to return to Parliament here, to committee. What do we need here: we're always asking for that opinion, and they consciously or 89 unconsciously, one minister shows up so he can't, there's a big brake and there's a big procedure. So we should go in that direction, we've been working in accordance with the law, we've got to have, we've waited 30 days, they haven't sent us anything, we've worked and adopted. So, the Commission adopted this legal act. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14695	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14696	You see, in order not to get into the situation that we just got into, now, there's a little bit of a rush here. Look, I've heard some information here, and it would be good to, yeah, if I really knew what it was. Therefore, the Commission has been told by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority that a working group has been formed to draft a comprehensive proposal for amendments to this law. That's what the Commission's report says. If there is a working group, then it makes sense to modify Mr Zorić's proposal, therefore, that this text, or the text of this law, is addressed to the already existing working group. I have now heard from my colleague that the task force, I guess, has finished, so I have passed the law of the indirect tax administration, which then raises the proposed conclusion of Mr Zorić, whom I was prepared to support. But then this conclusion should be modified in the direction of delivering this law to the Management Board, so that, together with the proposal it has, the Administration will give its position. I think... that in such a way maybe we could get out of this problem. I'm talking about what I heard here, even though I was going to suggest something else at the beginning. I was going to suggest that we postpone the debate on this law, and that the motioner delivers the current excise duties under the current law, so that we can consider this whole issue. I as a member, I as a... a member of this Parliament don't know what excises are now on oil, diesel-fuels, lodge-oil, motor gasoline, etc. etc. And it would be good if I had that information, along with this law, so that I could bring a clearer attitude. So we have two options without the intention of taking from the chairman, of course, the right to conclude this: therefore, one to postpone the debate and ask for additional information about this, or another to refer this text to the Directorate for indirect taxation that together with the law already in place about this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14697	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jukić, and Erić. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14698	The Law on indirect taxation, i.e. the Directorate for Direct Taxation, clearly stated in one article what the powers and rights of the Administration were when he said that no one else had the right to adopt regulations without consent, to amend the rules in this area. Since we haven't received time and still haven't received an answer on the issue of this excise tax law, I don't think we should go and act against the law. If we were to work differently, then we would have let one, and I don't know either, the adventure to pass a law contrary to another law that defined it to exclude jurisdiction to pass laws from this area, or at least to give consent, lies, or that it has an indirect tax administration. Why is such a law, such a legal solution? Three years ago when it was passed, I remember very well my thinking, not just my own when I said that the provision was bad and that it was unconstitutional. And I am saying that now, but she is, she is, she is, she is, because we, this provision, Parliament, the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, have deprived the right to pass laws, or laws from that area. So that law and that law apply to us. As long as it's worth it, I don't think we have the right to behave in accordance with that law. I am a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, but I was not at that session, and if I were, knowing how... the results of the vote were different. When I say this, then I do not dispute in any sense the validity of the decision of the committee responsible, which has been made in accordance with the applicable regulations and our rules of procedure. But here, I will ultimately propose to give up this law and to consider this issue comprehensively, and I think that Mr Zorić's proposal is very correct and constructive, because this is an area that deserves a truly one thorough analysis, with a lot of elements and data that I, at this point, do not have and that, through the work of this interresor group, of course, including, above all, the Council of Ministers, in a quality way, consider this issue and bring forward, propose and bring in a quality complete solution which, I am convinced, will include these solutions... or be very close to these solutions as they propose in this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14699	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14700	Mr. Chairman, we're tired today. I've been avoiding getting involved and talking so far, to be more efficient. But it looks like we just opened a theater scene and now all we have to do is give our opinions. Before I reach my conclusion, I suggest that these commissions of ours, in fact, which we demean in any case when we come here to parliament, then we are philosophising to our colleagues who have prepared the meanings. We've accepted this after this commission, asked all the members, so the ministers, the ministries to help us reach an adequate conclusion, and what's important is the launch, means the launch changes and what doesn't work on the ground. It's our duty to try to change here to make it better. What hurts here now, so many ministries are asleep, they've already gone home, they're sitting there, playing pool, and we're philosophizing here, and that's their job. And they should have, then, included to go to the crossing to see what worked. Secondly, how this budget that 91 planned will most likely be adopted in March again, if we continue like this, a minute to twelve, come up with some funds. Let me cut this short. We've both been considering this and we think that these are adequate solutions and we wouldn't now be philosophizing with various additions and waste of time, we've got a lot of other laws waiting for us. I suggest that we get to the bottom of this today, and if you think in the future that you're going to vote over the board members, then I think we're going to downplay that commission work, and, secondly, we should see what's going on in the environment. And I'm asking the College, so in the future, we're not putting something on the agenda if it hasn't been examined. You tell the commission: Stop, return, still examine that we do not waste time in the congregations about it. That's one thing. And secondly, we've handled ourselves by seeing that there's a growing crisis. We put the VAT on the milk, the drugs, and we didn't give coffee enough, to luxury, and then we realized that we needed a little help in that part to sort out this social crisis in some way, and that's how we managed it, not... that we're looking for some ugly words now. And now, it turns out, anything that moves, means it's controversial or, if I haven't read it well, I'm going to suggest that it be a conclusion, and then I'm going to ask around tomorrow, and then I'm going to participate in it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14701	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14702	Ladies and gentlemen, this law, in fact, the debate on this law was to begin at the previous agenda. Why am I saying that? Many discussions of distinguished colleagues who were apropos of the previous point could come down to the discussion of this item on the agenda. Why? This is, in fact, a law that, under the supposed signs, is problematic for some fellow MPs. And problematic for some because they did not engage in more detail in the content of neither this legal solution nor the basic law to which the amendments and additions to this legal solution are concerned. So the text of the law is missing, so we have to have the Proposer copy it, etc. etc. I agree that it may be businessly arranged, but if we really wanted to get involved in the excise problem, then we had a chance, if nothing, to get off the Internet of the Excise Act that's pretty cool on application. And here, it has been shown that there are certain shortcomings and problems in its implementation. Namely, I'll just say one more detail. If there are doubts about the correctness of the work of certain committees or committees in this home, I ask you to reach such a conclusion that we change them. Because if someone doesn't know how to work and I'd ask clubs not to propose to committees people who don't understand matter. In this way, we will avoid discussions and discussions and over-debates and debates at this home, as they were today. Namely, those who suggest... that an interresor working group be formed, here I will give them the answer: that at the 38th session of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board which was held in 2005... the proposed amendment and addition of the Excise Act which was in the Ministers' table at the time until today, never saw the light of day. Why? You need 92 to ask yourself a question, or perhaps you should ask her whom we have appointed to one of the duties at one of the previous sessions. When a commission or representative proposes a legal solution, then the competent ministry or the Council of Ministers remembers that something should be done and that they should propose a working group, and it will be held at the board's meeting. Well, you know, it's not good for the Commission to propose, because there are people who don't understand things, etc. And so on, and all in order until things are settled. Because this is the state of some people's mind! That exactly corresponds to those who belong to certain, so to speak, the lobbyist parliamentary majority. Things have to change. It should bring BiH producers and those in Croatia and those in Serbia to a level playing field. Because we all agreed to ratify the CEFTA Free Trade Treaty. This CEFTA affects us, or affects our economy, if we do not have an equal relationship, that is, the level playing field, and at the moment we do not. I'm not surprised by some, gentlemen, imports from the Republic of Croatia. Import about 3,000 tons, 3,000 tons of cigarettes a year! Why are so many cigarettes imported from Croatia to BiH? Because it is more worthwhile to sell these cigarettes in BiH than in Croatia. Because their price is lower in BiH. So you have a return of cigarettes from BiH to Croatia, etc. It actually enhances the gray market, i.e., not to say, illegal or dishonest actions. I also have here a list of BiH companies which are the largest importers, or the first twelve companies that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14703	Please be quiet in the gallery.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14704	...are the largest importers of cigarettes in BiH? Their influence on this home is stronger than those who sat down on the round table, when this Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs organised a round table. Unfortunately, I have to say it like that. Let every fellow MP wonder if he belongs to that group, where this import lobby of cigarettes has an impact greater than they do, not to mention, poor people. Indeed, our economy is in a poor state that has expressed their disdain, our demands for this House to change something to make it easier for them. How did one colleague say to get some air? So I can't figure out why the Management Board hasn't given its opinion until today. Because, if we had made budget funding, in terms of budget revenue cuts, I would have had an understanding for the Management Board, which is why it does not give consent to change, changes the excise part of the tax. But under this law, according to this law, there will be an increase in budget revenues. Even the entity prime ministers agreed on the rate of excise tax when it comes to toll, i.e. compensation for the routes from oil and oil derivatives. I'm surprised that none of the MPs tabled an amendment to define that consensual part through the amendment, but the easiest thing to do is, we're going to say no, you know, that's not suggested by the Council of Ministers, etc. The Council of Ministers will never propose that. Because unfortunately, I have to say either influence on the Council of Ministers or even sit at the Council of Ministers those who protect the interests of those who do this. Let me, but it's not fair... that coffee is taxed excisely twice, it's not fair. And we all killed ourselves fighting to avoid that double taxation. It is not fair that our chemical companies are closing in BiH because for so-called Denaturiated alcohol must be paid for excise and industrial alcohol must be paid for! It's like it's for making alcoholic beverages, and it's not. So our companies go to the Republic of Croatia, here to say in the county or Slavonski Brod, just means we cross the border with the Republic of Croatia to produce that denaturated alcohol, or we produce 93 chemical products that we later import into BiH. And under the free trade agreement, we don't pay customs. These are absurds, instead of hiring our own people, so people in BiH, we hire people in another country. Of course, I've got nothing against the Republic of Croatia, that someone doesn't get me wrong, but we're getting paid from the economy of this country and we should, if nothing, go hand in hand to the economy of this country. Therefore, to be honest, the excise part of the tax on these elements, i.e. these products treated by this law in the Republic of Serbia, is very similar to the Republic of Croatia, so we are only a party... that loses. Therefore, I, colleagues, suggest that we think carefully. I'm sorry we don't have a way to inform the public, because the public is waiting for this law. Let's let the public know how one of us behaves here in this house. Because let me, accuse the Commission of foreign trade and customs or the Commission of finance and the budget that she lobbys there, that she is under the influence of some lobbies etc., and the viscous interests of others who actually lobby and pay that lobby, I think this is at least incorrect. So I suggest you support this law, and if it isn't, if it's hard to support that law, well, then let's leave until the 28th when we're going to have a session that maybe we can get to the bottom of this law. And until then, let the Council of Ministers lay down a bill on amendments and additions to the Excise Act as they consider necessary. Only in that would... we could find... some time when we would leave the Council of Ministers to determine that proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14705	Of course, we have now... a series of replicas: firstly, honourable MP Lozančić, Hadžiahmetović, Zorić, Kalabić. Križanović replica, right! What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14706	I would like... if, indeed, in our actions we would reduce the possibility of anyone and any replicas. I think the argument offered by the respected predecessor is not an argument, and I think there are enough arguments in the bill itself to defend what is proposed in the law and, I must say, I don't know what the charges, what the insinuation, who these lobbies are, that we're constantly going in some wrong direction. I, if I knew that one of you here was a member of one of those lobbys you keep warning about, I'd call. I'd say Mr. That, Mrs. That, etc. I don't know what it's for at all, but we're having our own illusions: it'll never be proposed by the minister because he's a member of the lobby. I'm sorry, it's... it's not too much. I know that we MPs have a lot of rights, but to accuse the current resolution minister of being a member of a lobby, that because a member of that lobby was doing damage to this country, it's just a little too much, I have to say. Do we know who this minister is? I mean, that's the problem! I wouldn't react at all. I, unfortunately, don't know who the importers of cigarettes are in BiH and other excise goods; this, so I can't even comment... who might be a member of these lobbies. But if I had a list of who you have, maybe I'd know who the different lobby members are. I don't think that by the way you explain it you don't contribute to this kind of, I don't have to say, good solutions, maybe, can be better, get support in this House, and really everybody in good faith, in good faith, to ensure what we all swear - to ensure the citizens of this country what they deserve. 94 However, this is not valid from law to law. So here we were just discussing a law... where the citizens of this country are also concerned and, fortunately, no one mentioned any lobby. But we didn't accept it again. So we delayed it, so we'll see what we'll do, how we'll do it. So... I'm asking all of you,... each of us can use rhetoric and can bring to confusion the work of this house, but I don't think that's a good approach. Let's concentrate on the true arguments and I believe that in this area there are enough arguments of real that can be finely mathematically proven... and that because we believe it's a good support, not because someone will feel called... that he is a member of a lobby, so that's why I'm going to support the law. So here we try to make a contribution to work more constructively.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14707	Thank you. Well, I think it's good to wait for all this, and then finally give... a replica. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović: it was not a replica, it was a discussion. Who's next in line for the replica? Dear Ambassador Zorić and Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14708	Well, I don't know what my colleagues would say. Dude, I don't smoke at all and that I, I tell everybody, don't, people, smoke. And now you're insinuating here, I've memorized a very good one sentence that it's easy that you expected and knew exactly who would propose the amendments. It really hurt me. You obviously have not only about me but also all those who do not support this law... the element of the prosecution. I invite you to hand it over to the D.A., all your arguments and everything, all that cobwebs, I'd say, and insinuations. You see, the one who says, what here to say, I have nothing against the Republic of Croatia, that I say now, listen, I have nothing against the Congo. Obviously I have something against it over there. I haven't heard a word from my colleagues... that tobacco should not be imported, that it can be produced very well in BiH, that perhaps the Sarajevo cigarette factory should be dislocated to Posavina or western Herzegovina. Which is why it costs traffic, because no gram of tobacco is produced here. But no, I've suggested you remove the excise duties... on the cashew-oil. Children in Herzegovina are warmed up in schools and families by houses on this lodge-oil. Not only do they have to pay the fees, they have to pay the toll. And it doesn't bother anyone. A member of your party, Mr. Mehmedović, promised that within a month that excise duty would be lifted, reduced or found a way to restore people to heating when we passed that law. I know that law by heart, and then I wrote the same amendments now. You can check it very easily. But it wasn't done, because they're downstairs people in Herzegovina, or where they're all heating up on the lodge oil, they can pay it, let them pay, they don't like BiH anyway, let them at least pay. I mean, enough of those stories about who loves whom and who, who against whom, has nothing. I don't think this law is good at all, because increasing the toll, I don't know how much it's supposed to be, 10 fenings, not reducing anything. It says that a liter of gasoline or... a liter of diesel will cost 2.50 KM. Are we going to be the most expensive country in Europe after that? What's wrong with you people? Hit heaven only and the state will be rich, so it's easy to create. Why aren't tobacco imports banned? Or now suddenly the cheaper something is there in Rovinj or Belgrade or Cetinje, I don't know where it's going, but in Sarajevo. I don't know why it's cheaper! Why are these people worth exporting to? Well, come on, let BiH export to 95 Serbia and Croatia, Slovenia, Austria, when, if it has a quality product and if it can compete with the price. I mean, what's wrong with you? I, my amendments, are going to delete all those items until they're prepared to make full changes and supplement, and I just wanted to intervene, because more people can't stand it on the vine oil. And that's the four amendments. It's not about lobbys. If I had any lobby, I wouldn't do it. I'd pay for someone else to do it. It pains me that children, i.e. you can check, there have been newspaper signs that in the Western-Herzegovina County there is so much to pay for fuel. And no one says half of that price or 80% goes to the heating room at school. And then, as a dissuasive president of the government, the president of the assembly, the ministers, they spend all the time driving! Well, as much fuel as it says in the paper, it can't be spent not getting out of the car. All the cars that are on all the time and driving under full... turns - can't spend that much! But no one's going to say that these people, those kids, when they're heating up at school and teachers have to pay not only the excise fee, but the toll. And you see what gas prices are when one of Sarajevo's capitals of BiH made gas debts, then the Council of Ministers went to Moscow to settle those debts. And we all supported, we all supported the ratification of this agreement here in Parliament. And when you're looking for crumbs, it's a message, it's a message to these parts of BiH -- institutions don't care about you. Well, me, I do have an objection to that commission that he didn't propose to eliminate the excise duty on the lodge oil. The Council of Ministers' response is the same as some of the members of the Commission, the President of the Terzić Council, Adnan Terzić, said - We are introducing excise duties on the lodge oil because some use it for driving by car. So imagine the largest... that the largest executive power in BiH says: we can't stop criminals and then we'll cut the price! That's what I got when I proposed my amendments that didn't, of course, pass on the Commission, the same answer I got completely.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14709	Please, it's a replica. Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14710	If I'm out of time, I'm out.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14711	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14712	Thanks to that giving up, I can talk now. And if I were to say everything I think, then I don't know when it's over and that's my problem, and I'll leave it for tomorrow. In a good way, Mr Zorić said, on only one example, he showed what the Commission is doing and how it has dealt with it comprehensively. What I have warned all along is that we have a problem, that other institutions should do this, and this commission, as well as all other committees of this Parliament, has a role that is clearly defined. She can simply, in good faith, try to take over someone else's business and, see, what it turns out to be. I cannot accept, I cannot accept that hundreds of people working on this problem are not interested but is interested in only one part of the people in the Commission. They're the only ones who care about the state. Then 96 is tragic if that's it. I know they have, I can justify it with desire and I can't prove otherwise that it's not a desire to fix the situation, but here's when you start arguing like this and when people start pulling you out one by one, you can see how hollow it is. We have a problem. I'm afraid we in BiH definitely have a problem! And here's what we have a problem with. This kind of charge against the Secretary-General, when I translate this to myself, that's enemy number one, these activities are subversive. He's destroying the country! That's hundreds of millions of damage to this country! For such a minister, distinguished counterpart Mehmedović voted and will vote again. Here, he's getting ready to vote for him again. And with such heavy accusations! What's this about? Are we principled? If that's true and if... that's what that man does, so he can't get into Parliament. He can't enter Parliament. That means we're playing a double game. And that means the thing that scares me the most is that there's some kind of parallelism in this country that I can't define right now that in some other places it decides some important things, and that's what I see, and here we're serving as some kind of cover, and that's how we should do it, but the worst thing is, it looks like we can't wash it, too. And I end up saying, I warn on several occasions, we have a problem that the Commission, to which I can respect and the desire and the need to do so, is not good for this Parliament or for this state, that other institutions that are more invited than it are to deliver what it does and that it gives its assessment, assessment and supplementation, that it is not good (the Council of Ministers of that same majority...) because these accusations which have been made to each other are of such nature that they either throw a smoke screen and throw a smoke bomb to distract from something else, or they are about some kind of offer and contract or I don't know what, but it's not good. I say with this problem, we can't exist.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14713	Time, please. Wait a minute. I have an incorrect quote about Mr. Mehmedović, so I would give him the opportunity to finish, and then open up the replicas of the others. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14714	The word has a distinguished representative, Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14715	Here, obviously I wasn't clear enough at first, in the sense that I wasn't an expert in this matter. And each of us is determined according to what he has. Someone knows this matter better, someone weaker. I define myself according to the documents I got from the people I think they understand. So, we have a response from the Management Board since 15.10.2007, where they do not support the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act in BiH. And we can't say that there's no match for a foreigner who works here, and that we're comfortable with a stranger who's in other places, not to mention where he is now. Secondly, I also have a letter from the RS finance ministry saying that it is necessary to pass a new comprehensive excise law that will regulate excise taxation in BiH, while respecting all the specificities of excise products, in particular, taking into account the ways of taxing environmental excise duties. So we don't even have the consent of entity governments to this law. I take on these papers that I have, and I have others from the Chamber of Commerce, etc., 97 or according to this law, meaning no mafia, no other pressures but only through paper that I can get on the table. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14716	I'll try very briefly to respond to some of these replicas. In fact, I have nothing to say to Mr. Živković, he actually just confirmed what I was talking about. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to go from behind, Mr. Kalabić's replicas, it's best that the commissions don't do anything, and that's the only way they're going to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It will therefore only give opinions, or reports concerning the laws proposed by the Council of Ministers. And as I recall, the Rules of Procedure states that legislators can be both representatives and competent authorities, commissions, etc. I don't know where anyone could recognize our current finance minister in my discussion. I had no idea he was the one. I mentioned and you could recognize the former finance minister who really held the approved text of the Amendment Bill and the supplement of the Excise Act in the drawer. That's why I have evidence and I don't speak in my head. And as for the minister of the current, current finance minister, Mr. Vrankić, I voted for him and I will vote for him again, if he is a candidate, of course, for the finance minister, so with full right, I say it loud and clear. That's the answer to Mr. Lozančić, so there's no reason for this. As for Mr Zorić, I did not say who would propose, but I expected someone to submit amendments to this law and that was my discussion. Here, you can also listen to the stenogram, or video of my discussion. And as for excise duties or excise duties on lye oil, here, there are colleagues who have been with me in the Federal Parliament – I have asked the competent minister at least four times to abolish, i.e., ensure the return of the excise part of the tax, i.e. tolls or excise duties for the lodge oil used for the heating of rooms in schools, including private facilities. However, there was no hearing at that time under the applicable laws, and here after the law was passed in this house, that is, this Parliament in 2005, is that, then it remains as it is and here we are trying to at least free farmers from tolls, because they do not use those routes for agricultural machinery and free them from the excise part of the oil tax and oil derivatives they use as fuel for agricultural machinery. If a return on heating tax is to be included, it is the subject of the debate; in that sense, it can also be discussed and possibly accepted by the competent amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14717	Thank you. The replicas are now in order: the honourable Messenger Bahtić, and Erić. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14718	Just for a little while. I still have replicas because here are now... many charges brought against Mr. Mehmedović's account which I absolutely 100% support. Absolutely 100%. And what country in the world doesn't protect its domestic production? These amendments and additions to the Excise Act only want our domestic production, our companies, to bring them to a level playing field with companies from neighbouring countries. That's clear. It's clear to everyone. We can say for a thousand examples that... now our people have also taken our factory loans, closing firms for these duties. Our brewers import malt, they have to pay for the excise and then it turns out to be more expensive than imported. I am for competition, market liberalisation, but all countries in the world must, so come in, go to Slovenia and Croatia, there can be our product. But you know the price. Why would our beer be more expensive or our cigarettes,...I speak, than imported ones? Let... beer but ours must be cheaper. A fellow Zorić shows competition, has the right to export. How are we going to export, when I've been charged with excises, that I'm more expensive at the beginning? I'm more expensive in my country without being more expensive there in Slovenia and Croatia! As for the lye-oil, you're right, but you're right, we need to find the mechanisms. There was this law, I know it in Bihaq: local communities were hitting who had the heat, so everyone there was the president of the local community confirming stamps, having a man's heating, fictitiously no heating. .... mechanisms, control institutions that who drives the car or not; for the lodge-oil I'm here, you're absolutely right. But we need to make sure they stop that gray economy. Well, here's a colleague of Lijanović Jerko's said deficit. Well, the deficit is going to increase this year, and the deficit is due solely because we don't have domestic production and we're increasing exports. And we by this law... every year it will grow – unemployment. So we know that this law depends on both production and investment and employment!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14719	A little time, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14720	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14721	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14722	Mr. Chairman, I won't be long, just to replicate Mr. Kalabić. I agree with his proposal that something is wrong with both the Commission and, since I am the only one from the opposition of this commission, I suggest that the shift take place from me.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14723	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 99
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14724	I'm going to have a bit of an unusual discussion. A little economic, a little non-economic.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14725	Please, just in time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14726	And I'm sorry... that a lot of time has already been spent on replicating, correcting false allegations, but let me say that everyone who discussed it has been making their arguments, right, that they're absolutely right. I do not enter into the details of the qualifications presented by counterpart Mehmedović, taking out the position of perhaps some companies or groups, producers etc., but, here, I will try to remind you briefly of the legislation in BiH. The existing, let's say, regulation, when it comes to excise duty as a tax on high-tariff goods, let's not forget, is in force since 1 January 2006 and on tobacco processing, e.g. as one of the high-tariff goods, the excise duty is paid 49% and the basis for the calculation is the retail price which is reduced by VAT. Imports of cigarettes from countries with which we are in the free trade regime shall not be subject to customs or customs registration. Imports of cigarettes from countries with which we do not have a free trade regime, imported cigarettes are paid 15% of customs and 1% of registration. ... Let's say, comparatively with some countries, unlike BiH, some of the countries with which we are in the free trade regime, have completely or partially disabled the import of cigarettes into their market. This is one of the elements of alternative and trade policies that, unfortunately, we have not yet achieved in application but are still dreaming of classical trade policies that are more or less prohibited, if nothing else, those rules, regulations, integrations that we are entering and moving into. For example, the neighbouring Republic of Croatia places all imported cigarettes in Group C, for which it pays an excise fee of 10.9 kuna, while for the same Croatian cigarettes it is a excise duty of 5.5. For example, the excise duty on imported cigarettes in Croatia is higher by 5.4 kuna, i.e. 1.3 stamps from domestic cigarettes. In Serbia, excise duty for foreign cigarettes is greater than 0.4 KM. For example, in Turkey we also have a free trade regime, in BiH it is completely impossible to place cigarettes because it cannot get permission from the Turkish competent ministry. And this is one of the kinds of alternative trade policies. Here, let's say, when it comes to the second most frequently mentioned high-tariff goods, that's coffee. According to our regulations, excise is paid in two stages, on import and after processing. I guess we all know we don't have our own coffee! When importing raw coffee, 1 KM; on fried and ground 2.5 KM; on instant 3 KM, and after processing, which includes, whether, frying, grinding etc., on coffee fried 1,5 KM. And here's to you, let's say, the consequences of the existing condition. The processed coffee from imports has exactly the same treatment as the one from BiH,... that is, from neighbouring countries, for example, where most of us import, and, let's say, neighbouring countries have a more competitive, more competitive price, and we are more expensive at the beginning by 2 to 3 KM. I'm not saying whose regulation is better, is it, I'm just saying where we are compared to the other one. For example, BiH, which is an exporter from BiH to Croatia, pays an excise fee of 3 KM and a domestic Croatian processor on its market 1.3 KM. And of course, here are the consequences! Due to the incompetence of domestic processors, 70% of import raw coffee... ends up on the black market, for which excise duty is never paid after processing, and in a good way, VAT payments are avoided. The estimates are about 500 small processors. In addition to mention, I guess we're all asked why we're paying for the cheap coffee that comes from a faraway world somewhere, for example, from somewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina. May I continue?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14727	This is a discussion, just go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14728	In addition, I merely cited this as an example of the absurd state, when it comes to excises. When it comes to, say, regulations, or laws. Me this, these are the provisions of the applicable law. Feeling the problem of excise duties, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate sent the next amendment to the Act on Excises and the Law on Taxation of Products and Services in BiH on 17 May 2005, saying that at its 38th session, held on 11 May 2005, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, etc. And the Council of Ministers should now adopt these laws. In addition, they provide these laws for consideration – with respect – then chaired by Joli Dikson. And that's the law that mentions counterpart Mehmedović. Here, if anyone doesn't believe, I have here a memo, a accompanying act by the Council of Ministers again for some reason perhaps argued, perhaps unargued, we don't know, never referred to the procedure. So we have an absurd situation with the existing law: we have a lack, or need of change, we have someone who initiates that change, we don't have a complete process of any change. The Commission, under the pressure of both the arguments and the business sector, etc. And the debate that's been done here and the nature of the work he's doing, he's suggesting something. This is where we all speak from the position of high-traffic goods, different. Comrade Zorić is absolutely right. We may find something else somewhere, I didn't mention oil, vine-oil, etc., but we can't dispute the fact that something needs to change urgently, and at the same time we have the inertness of the institutions in charge, and, with the full respect of what counterpart Kalabić says, we're not the ones who need to take a piece of some high-tariff goods here, so let's weigh in whether it's a excise to be 3.4 or 2.8. I'd like to see which of us knows it, without any elaborates, quantifications and all that. And, of course, one question: How to force institutions that are competent to make this from all aspects comprehensively, as counterpart Zorić says, approach analysis and change of existing legal solutions. Or, here's what we have, let's say, the board of directors doesn't support, for example. Parliamentary proposal, Commission proposal. We have, say, a situation that the Council of Ministers does not support the proposal of the Management Board. We have a situation that this parliament does not support the proposal of its own committee. So let's ask ourselves a little bit, and I want to tell you, you're all right about what you're saying, with all your arguments and the need to change something. I am now asking myself: Which is actually a way for us... someone tells us that the situation in BiH is ideal and that nothing needs to change or that it is bad and that something needs to change comprehensively, of course, with some analysis, including everything from coffee, tobacco and everything else that is concerned with excise duties. 101 I would personally support any proposal for a law amending excise duties. I am now saying this not as an economist but as a political one, only for one reason that I am aware that if this Parliament adopted so much harm to someone's law, to some harmful act law, that it would force the competent institutions to approach exactly what I'm talking about. And here, I'll tell you, I'll support this law. Not because I'm behind this law, but above all for these reasons I'm talking about. I don't know what way more is for someone who gets paid for it to seriously sit down, I won't address anyone's guilt, because there's a lot of bullets here, a lot of wandering, and we have, obviously, a problem, which we need someone to draw attention to, that it's a problem, that we need to solve or that there's no problem at all, so we don't need to change anything from the existing situation. I may have been having a bit of an unusual discussion, but I appreciate the arguments of all the debaters here, from the fact that, in particular, some of the producers have been damaged by us, so we're going to weigh down on who's damaged, who's not, who's getting, who's cheating on whom, etc. You're missing the story of mistrust. There's a lot of mistrust here, and we're talking about this committee, the board of directors, and the Council of Ministers, according to, I don't know, someone else. Let's find a way to get this thing to the surface once and for all and get somebody to do it. And just in that sense really like... one way maybe we can get someone to deal with it because here, look at you, ever since this law travels in procedure and when it's long ago said that within 30 days, the board of directors who should have sent an opinion will be manifested. I'm not saying that the board of directors is guilty; there may not have been a session, perhaps for these or those reasons, so we have a Council of Ministers working in the technical mandate. And we've been busy maybe with some problems, so here's the point, and this session was scheduled a month ago. There may be a reason, but I can't find any other way to really force someone to seriously draw attention to the problem that exists, even if someone realized there's no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14729	Thank you. The only way to conclude that is to pass it on to six leaders as well as the Drug Act. In any case, Ambassador Lozančić had a replica of your presentation and Križanović had a discussion afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14730	I don't know, dear colleague, why are you so upset when I go out for a pay phone? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, In this country, anything is possible, so I even saw a commercial that we have domestic coffee, although I have not seen a tree growing in BiH anywhere. But this is not a replica of the presentation of the distinguished colleague, the distinguished MPs, and one colleague took advantage of it in an earlier session, so I thought I could use it. This is a positive replica: if the proposings in front of this committee of ours who proposed this law in your way explained this law, I believe that the debate would be much less, much less replicable and that the law would get a much faster passage in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14731	Of course, I'll give you a business intervention and I know which direction it's headed. 102 I only had one reported. It is the honourable MP Križanović, and I intended to give him my word in order to finish the discussion, and then rest because the morning is smarter than the evening and then discuss the bill on travel documents where we have no major problems. If that's how you want us to end this agenda, I'm asking you to go that way. So he was just reported. But if he and the others, who wanted to apply in the meantime, we can end up that way. Dear Ambassador Križanović, briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14732	I don't know why I always feel guilty when I last speak, but it's not about me, it's about the chairman who gives me his word in order. I'm gonna have to use the same thing, I think, with a little scam, so call the replica and tell me what I've got. So, I'm going to be very brief and thank you for your patience right now. So we have three problems. Professor Hadžahmetović said we have a problem. We have three problems. One problem is we have a real problem with the excise issue. Another problem is the famous Directorate for indirect taxation. And the third problem is we're on our own. And they're all intertwined and bound together. You see, in the previous debate, when we talked about this similar topic, I said that because of the inactivity of the competent institutions to arrange things in BiH, we have an empty space in which the authorities of Parliament and individuals come in and as representatives. And I said that these are very often perhaps incomplete legal solutions that have something to object to. But look, I want to tell you right now, this isn't about the bill, this is about a bill of amendments. Here you go, folks, this is what our commission did and threw as much as it could. Here, you all have the right to repair that law already at the next session, according to the same procedure as... Behind this proposal, beware, stands as a proposal from the Commission of this House. And beyond that, the second Finance and Budget Commission supports the proposal. If you add that up, it's 18 MPs in those two commissions, it's half-home maltenes. So that's the problem we have with ourselves. And the other problem we have is, again, that administration or better say the wrong interpretation of the Law on indirect taxation. The Management shall prepare and implement policies established by the Council of Ministers. That's where the Council of Ministers shut down and we got what we got. You see, the other problem is that we came to another reading, my people. This same home was adopted under the same conditions and circumstances of this law in the first reading. And we're coming in now when it's time to put a point, we're now trying to look for some palatable solutions, with some kind of interresor groups, etc. My proposal is to respect all that we have heard and what we have on our dream – to bring this law to an end according to the procedure of business procedure. Either we adopt it or we bring it down, let them form later whatever groups you want, interplanetary if necessary, but let's get this job done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14733	Thank you. 103 Be sure that this law and this item of the agenda will be completed according to the procedure of business. However, I am looking for a way out of a situation where a part of the MPs is asking us to break this item of the agenda and continue it in the morning, then continue to vote on the conclusions that we have received here and, of course, on the bill's proposal. I think it's a better variant than now, tonight, we're finishing that agenda by voting. However, I have a tip that two MPs now want to report for debate. I'd ask them to drop the debate if it's not a problem. So, honourable Ambassador Jašarević, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14734	I am, thank you very much, I wanted how long the replica lasts. I think it is very important that the Finance and Budget Commission first removed this law from the debate because there were no legislators as defined by the Rules of Procedure, deeming it a very sensitive and significant law. The second time she removed it because there was no need for the Governing Board's position on indirect taxation. And the third time she missed it, despite having no such attitude again, not because he would vote tonight, it would be good not to vote tonight or tomorrow because the laws of this country do not allow it, although I must tell you that I am on the trail of what Professor Hadžiahmetović was saying – someone should vote out of spite to show that it is difficult to wait any longer. But I have to say this. Neither this home is a partner nor a Council of Ministers, nor this Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, regardless of what a foreigner, a very respectable man, is sitting there. Why? Because he didn't prescribe deadlines or sanctions when that didn't happen. I would ask Mr Križanović to – I have heard several suggestions that we are doing so despite the views of the Steering Board for indirect taxation – we should give the Council of Ministers the conclusion that the law on the fiscal council should be passed and that the establishment of a fiscal council can only be laid down by this body which has taken over the transition period of that body, because it does not have the capacity to discuss and take views on the elements of economic policy, fiscal policy, the distribution of income and everything we have come up with there to do. It is simply not possible in any country of the world to get rid of it permanently. We, therefore, thought when it came here – and I must say that I am very pleased, it seems to me that this is the first time that everyone has positive energy, without these qualifications there, which may have to be forgotten – to simply get out of here and say that the Council of Ministers will, by that time, create assumptions that the Management Board will return to its affairs, that the fiscal council will take over the top of the pyramid when it comes to the economic and fiscal policy of this country and that this conclusion that is proposed here is the only possible legal way to come to a reasonable change of these acts there in the part that encourages domestic production. I'm asking you to continue tomorrow, to take that side and bring such a commitment. There was a thought that the precedent of the House would come to a solution. I don't think he's good even a precedent because we're close to adopting a procedure that will ensure that we always do it the right way. Thank you for this opportunity. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14735	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Ivanković, although you've already called today, you've had a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14736	I didn't have a discussion on this law. I only made one suggestion to postpone this for the morning and I would now ask for a half-hour break to rest, so then I would discuss it or that...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14737	Is that your club's proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14738	Yes, it is. Or should we leave tomorrow to discuss this topic and vote on this law, which I think is better because we will leave safely in the next day.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14739	Wait a minute. Dear Ambassador Džaferović wanted something to do with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14740	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, it is obvious that our parliament is entering... a very interesting way of working. This way, in my opinion, he won't be able to work anymore. So, monthly once, twice, we're going to have to get into a session of 3-4 days a week because this is obvious. So we didn't even get to the 11th point of the agenda. At the first next session, I will propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure, therefore, to form a group for amending the Rules of Procedure, that only this issue be settled, because we must obviously, especially, given what awaits us. I'm not in a position right now, believe me, after today, I've been following through all day, I'm not simply able to follow the debate in quality. I ask you to just end this law, the minister waits all the time. You have to respect that thing, since others don't come here, they don't usually come. Let's finish his act and go on at 10.00 in the morning, break this agenda point now. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14741	I don't know if there's anything... that I didn't suggest in that sense. But, gentlemen, it's up to you to help me with that. If you want us to continue, then you must all say that we want to continue, and those who cannot continue to realize that they cannot continue to work. I have now reported: the honourable MP Jukić, and here comes the honourable MP Novaković. I'm asking them to stop in this direction now, to continue the next item of the agenda, to continue this tomorrow at 10.00 if you'd like to discuss it that way. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go. 105
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14742	Chairman, I would now start as Mr. Džaferović. I don't think this is gonna work anymore. Business needs to find a basis for this sort of thing. Well, we can't start the dots, so let's go next, we'll finish this tomorrow, let's finish the next one, because the minister is waiting. He won't be angry with the minister when I say this. Look out, the minister's working today while this is waiting. This is in his job description, as is our job description, what we're doing here today. The problem is they're not waiting for the other ministers here, they're waiting for him alone. I guess because the others think that these laws aren't important to him, because he's the legislator, which I think is a catastrophic thinking. So I'm not going to continue working in these circumstances at all, and at least I'm willing to break one point and go on another. So we have already broken the Rules of Procedure several times today for postponing the statement at the second reading. Gentlemen, you will have to find solutions from most of them. You need to find solutions. This, but to comply with the Rules of Procedure, these are not solutions, Mr. Chairman. So, I don't support the proposal to break this point, continue tomorrow, and finish some of the following. Either we interrupt the session or we do the next point; we end this one and we do the next one here for the minister, and I agree, but not to interrupt. We don't work for the minister, we work to finish all the laws that are here, and then we go, we work until tonight, until we get there.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14743	Thank you. So these things aren't settled business and I'm trying to meet people who want us to keep working that way tonight. I'm going to put that conclusion to the vote, so it's not just my proposal and how to run the session, but to make it a proposal to the House. So, I'm putting on the motion to break the agenda point now: the draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act in BiH, to continue tomorrow's session with this point, and to continue to work on the 15th point of the agenda tonight: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Road Corrections. I'm asking the House to make a statement on my proposal. You can vote. Now! "For" 25, "against" seven, "abstained" was not sufficient, the entity majority. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on travel documents of BiH (first reading) The proposal for this law was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2007 in a regular procedure. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis on 8 October 2007. The Commission for Transport and Communications shall be responsible. We received a report from the committee responsible in 1.11.2007. The Commission supported the principles. 106 I open the debate in the first reading and call on the minister if he needs to explain the bill. If there's no need, I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14745	Mr. Chairman, I suggest we break this point of the agenda and proceed tomorrow and move on to the next point of the agenda. And I ask that Dom plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-12-12-0.u14746	We have a proposal from the honourable MP Novaković to break this agenda. I'm asking the House to determine that. You can approach the vote. Now! "For" eight, "against" 20, "restricted" three. Your proposal was not given to the congregation majority. We're continuing the debate. If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. I ask the House to declare its proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents of BiH in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote. Now! Wait a minute, please. I've been waiting for you all day. 34 "for", "against", there were no, "abstained". I realize this law has been passed. We'll be back tomorrow at ten o'clock. The session was closed at 1 9:45.
