ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u627	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow MPs, present officials from the Council of Ministers and the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 8th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. To conclude only that the session is attended by 15... MPs, of which four in the Bosniak order, five in the order of Croatia and four in the order of the Serb people. Mr. Tihić is missing because of his illness; we wish him a quick recovery and a return to work between us, and Dr. Ivanic who is at the Interresor Group meeting and... justice is missing. I believe he will join during the session. For the 8th session, as delivered to you, I suggest the next amended agenda compared to the one you initially received 1. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 2. The adoption of minutes 6 and 7 of the House of Peoples; 3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; Mr Ivanić joins. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Customs Tariff Act following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH, Second Reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Competition Act, second reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the House of Representatives; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, second reading – Proposer Envoy Slobodan Šaraba (application of the new Rules of Procedure); 2 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH, second reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Alignment of Obligations on the basis of an account of old foreign exchange savings, second reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Council of Ministers Act, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 11. Proposal for a law on sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 12. Proposal for a law on the protection of integrated car schedule plans, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 13. Proposal for a framework law on pre-school education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 14. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 15. Proposal for a Law on Radio and Nuclear Safety of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 16. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Procedure, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 17. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 18. Proposal for a law on free legal aid in civil matters, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 19. Proposal for a Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the BiH Administration, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 21. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006; 22. Review of the Report of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions on the Revision of 2006 (a) the Agency for the State Service of BiH, (b) the Central Bank of BiH, (c) the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy Derk, (e) the Commission for Property Requirements of Displaced Persons and Refugees, (f) the Agency for Labour and Employment of BiH, (d) the Competition Council of BiH, (h) the Food Safety Agency BiH, (i) the Archives of BiH, (j) the Centre for the Removal of Mines of BiH, (k) the Directorate for Civil Aviation of BiH, (l) the Institution for Human Rights of BiH, (m) the Agency for Public Procurement of BiH, (n) the Agency for the Control of the Market of BiH, (i) the Directorate for the European Integration of BiH, 3 p) the Directorate for the Implementation of the CIPS project, q) the Directorate for the Implementation of the Reconstruction of Police Reconstruction, (r) the Fund for the Return of BiH, (f) the Institute for the Law of BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, BiH, Information to the Board of Appeal on the activities undertaken with the aim of overcoming the problem in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals by applying the applicable rules, with the proposal for a conclusion; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Change and Accession to the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006) – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 25. Request of the House of Representatives to consider the Proposal for a Law on the application of the Agreement on the modification and accession to the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Traffic between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC International Development Fund – Rural Entrepreneurship Progress Project; 28. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Cooperation between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the State of Kuwait in the field of culture, information, science and education – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 29. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Swiss Confederation on Police Cooperation in the fight against crime – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 30. Giving consent to ratifying the Framework Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on cooperation in military fields of training, techniques and science – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 31. Giving consent to ratifying the Funding Treaty – Road Rehabilitation Project in the Federation of BiH – between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 32. Giving consent to ratifying the Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia on dual citizenship – Proposer of the BiH Presidency; 33. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Lithuania on the promotion and protection of investments; 34. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of the judiciary or courts and prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 35. Giving consent to ratifying the Funding Agreement – added funding for the Community Development Project – between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association; 4 36. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and state officials of Bosnia and Herzegovina in peace support operations for the period from 1.9.6 to 28.2.2007; 37. Information on the state of security in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2006; 38. The appointment of Nikola Pejić as a member of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy (the proposal of the Council of Ministers of BiH); 39. Proposal for amendments to the Decision appointing members of the Board for the selection of the Chief Auditor and the Vice-General of the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions; 40. The appointment of the secretary of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Are you calling anyone for a Reich? Any changes and additions? Mrs. Majkić, please. You have to engage yourself. Check the card. We'll wait, just a minute. Here, I'll turn myself off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u629	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I don't think I'm saying it, but I just don't think it's good for all of us. Having a agenda of 40 points is really a very difficult job to prepare the session. Whether it's laws that are only in emergency procedures, it means only in determining procedures, and that's the kind of thing to be prepared for. If we want, as delegates to this home, to do our job properly, professionally and in time, we need time. ... We are left with relatively little time, from the moment... when the agenda is established to the very session of the House. I really ask that the agenda of future sessions do not exceed 20 points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u630	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So this is not an observation on the proposed agenda, this is a principled remark that will be taken into account... A colleague of the House of Peoples. We'll let Mr. Tihić know about it. Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u631	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 59. Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I propose that the point of 9 be removed from today's large agenda. Proposal for a law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign currency savings. The reason for this proposal is quite clear. All the delegates of the House of Nations ahead of this session, I think before, we got one letter or one appeal which... The Association of Citizens for the Return of Old Foreign Savings in BiH is urging us to remove this item from the agenda today, and as an objective and clear, firm and thorough reason, it is the fact that certain provisions of this law, which we are considering today, are being assessed before the BiH Constitutional Court. Since we are adopting this law to solve the problems that old foreign exchanges have, then it is quite logical to wait for 5 with the Constitutional Court's decision, and only then to put this law on the agenda and solve it, but in agreement and the way it is demanded and how the foreign currency demands it. So, Mr. Chairman, I demand of you and ask that we all show a little more hearing and effort to remove this point from the agenda, to consider at one of the next sessions, but only when the Constitutional Court makes its decision. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u632	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. For his word, he answered, and I apologize to Mrs. Majkić, and he asked for Mr. Rančić a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u633	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished guests, members of the Council of Ministers, what I would suggest about the debate on the agenda is that the Commission for the Budget and Finance of our home has finally declared today on the law, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement of BiH. This law should be, therefore, the conditions for his consideration in the first reading have been met. Given that this law has passed the procedure of the House of Representatives, I suggest that we also put this Amendments and Supplements Act on Public Procurement of BiH for today's session – first reading and catching up with the House of Representatives. There's been a public debate over this law. And tomorrow we have certain activities scheduled by the Public Procurement Agency's Board of Appeals and, I think, another SIGMA institution. So it is necessary for us to fulfill our part of the obligation, to adopt this law in the first reading, in order to improve all of our dilemmas, as well as in the public debate etc., through the amendment action and to come into a position to adopt the law in the second reading, both the one and the second law. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u634	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u635	Indeed, we agreed on a Commission on Finance and Budget to extend the agenda with a proposal for this law on public procurement. However, given this kind of agenda, given the delicacy of this law.... which has come to us, given that in the meantime there have been some letters and suggestions related to this law and that tomorrow will be held, as a workshop on public procurement organised by SIGMA, given that not all the results of the public debate have been sublimed, I do not think that this proposal should be accepted and therefore I did not suggest... that this item of the agenda be complemented. 6 And as for Mr. Šaraba's proposal, I want to say... if we're going to get any new quality, I would support that proposal. However, we, if we accept the proposal to take on that item of the agenda... The Constitutional Court will come to the position that for anyone to know how many... /interrupted recording/... we will not have that law, and according to this, the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Finance, will not be able to do the tasks that are ahead of him – to end the verification and to see what is the real deadline for the return. So I think it would be absurd to take this point off the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u636	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So, I am obliged, as the person who runs this session, to protect the Rules of Procedure. And I must observe, therefore, we will go in order, therefore, in relation to Mr. Šaraba's proposal. Mr. Šaraba has suggested that item 9 of the agenda be removed. I must warn you that you have not carefully read all the provisions of Article 58 and Article 59. Rules of Procedure. This is a agenda item which is a mandatory item of the agenda that we cannot take down under the Rules of Procedure. We can't take item 9 off the agenda. This is one thing, and as for this one now; therefore, we have two proposals: one is a proposal to be included; so we will not even plead on this proposal – the Rules of Procedure are clear here, that is the mandatory item of the agenda. Now we have a proposal to put something on, to expand, to have a point 41. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement, and at the same time we have the position of the chairman of the relevant committee/authority commission not to spread it, not to spread today's agenda. Would you, as two club presidents, perhaps agree not to vote on this?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u637	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u638	But here, we just heard the President of the Commission say what she said. So, can we do this: get out of this gable or we'll put on a statement of the expansion of the agenda. Mr. Božo Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u639	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I think that Mrs. Majkić could resolve this problem a little more detail as to why she gave up what we voted on the Committee 40 minutes ago. I understand the arguments she made and it seems to me that it would be best if Mr. Rančić respected those arguments, although it does surprise me a little bit this way... a change of attitude. ... should wait for tomorrow's public hearing and the over-scheduled session of the commission to discuss the law afterwards. I think you should, Mrs. Majkić, explain a little more precisely why you changed your attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u640	Anybody else want a word? I will do it again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I will put on a statement by the president of the Bošnjak klub, Mr. Rančić, that you wish! Here you go, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u641	Mr. Chairman, before I even explained this proposal, I had a very thorough look at this article in 59th, but I also cited why I suggest that this be taken down. The proposal is this letter, Mr. Chairman, which is very thorough, very argumentative and which offers some new facts that we didn't know before. So that was why I suggested, of course, I also demanded a little more meaning and width in interpreting this member and thus showing one will and desire and willingness to help this category of people. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u642	Thank you very much. So I have to read now, for the sake of clarity, to all MPs, so the reason why the Rules of Procedure won't allow it. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of our House discusses the establishment of the agenda and (1) says that this is what the College does and that is what the College has done, and in... paragraph (2) says:The mandatory point is that it has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So it's a mandatory point. In Article 59, which you have called upon, paragraph (1), the first part of that paragraph, tells you, however, the second is taking away, therefore, the justification... of your request and I will read it in full: At the beginning of the session, each envoy, as well as any authorised promoter, has the right to request that any optional - optional, not mandatory, but optional - points and proposing a new one. And now it says: The suspension of the mandatory points referred to in Article 58(2) of this Rules of Procedure is not permitted. I would simply not continue to open the debate, therefore, contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I totally understand the letter you got. I have carefully read this text but the Rules of Procedure is something that binds this home and every representative in this House, not a letter that came during or before the session itself. He asked for a doctor. Ivanic's word before that.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u643	First of all, I think we should supplement the agenda, in addition to what we've agreed and after the fact that we've had so much time, we shouldn't... take as a practice and push them. I really think so, because it's impossible for us today, right here at 10 o'clock, to have a session of the Commission, at 11 o'clock, to be prepared now so that we can discuss it. I belong to 8 of those delegates who feel that the supplements should really be made in exceptional conditions, and so I think that if there is no particular reason, and I don't think there is, the other thing is to take these inside the commissions, but generally as a delegate I'm saying we shouldn't get used to going too optionally in this kind of... That's why I'd be against... getting this done. Not because of a specific case, but I speak in general. I don't think it's a good idea to do that, only when we have to, that it's really an exception. Here, that's my suggestion about the proposal to lay down another law. I'd be against it, 'cause I don't think we should be making this about ourselves as delegates.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u644	Thank you very much. Ivanic. Mr. Rančić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u645	Mr. Chairman, in the spirit of our Rules of Procedure and all of this, as you have said regarding article 58, allow me to read again Article 58 (2): The mandatory point is the one that has passed the procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or if the unanimous decision is sought by the House Commission. Therefore, the procedure has passed and the Commission's position on finance and budget as a competent working body has been to include this item in today's agenda. So it's about first reading, really nothing is... complicated, there's nothing... hidden or... etc. It's about principles. The House of Representatives has passed and to allow itself and the House of Representatives, in all institutions that apply this law as well as all entities that participate in the purchases of goods, services, etc., to improve this law, to come to these... better solutions – is a condition that we put it on the agenda and adopt it in the first reading, and then we go into this further procedure, possibly... of amendment action. If we don't, we leave for the next session, in fact, we as a home prevent us from getting to a better law in what, is... is time. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u646	Thank you very much. So I understood all of this and I saw exactly what it says in 58. (2) but there has been a retrieval of the position of the chairman of the Committee – a unanimous decision is not. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u647	In this country, there are no representatives of any contracting authority, so one of the institutions at the level of state, entity, municipality, or any representative of suppliers who has no objections to the Public Procurement Act. What is the specificity of the law says in favour of more than 50% of the laws being amended. Imagine, talking about the principles of... such a law, and if not all of them weren't members, it's not enough that only the members of the Finance and Budget Committee get to know about it, the rest of them should know what it's about to leave enough space for them, and they didn't leave enough space for them. I see no reason to insist, so much to insist that this law goes in the first reading, when this explanation, which Mr Ivanić gave, is quite 9 too much. Let's just let everyone have the opportunity to break that law. We shall see what is to be done, whether we will be satisfied, and whether these are the principles on which this law rests. So, Mr. Rančić, we might be talking about this today, but I don't think that would be competent. It is not enough to prepare only the Commission for Finance and Budget, the other members and other delegates in the House should prepare themselves for this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u648	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. So there's been another problem. Mr. Rančić, I would therefore regret that you listen very carefully to me, in case we don't have an entity majority, and obviously we won't have one, we need to approach the compliance, and we don't have a complete college. We can't agree. This makes your proposal practically utopian, and please withdraw the proposal. Okay? Mr. Rančić withdrew his proposal. The agenda has been adopted, in accordance with Article 60. Rules of Procedure, if we haven't changed it. We're not going to open a debate against the provisions, that's what I said. So we're going to approach the continuation of our work, in accordance with the proposed agenda that... hasn't been changed, which hasn't been changed. We move to the 1st point of the agenda, that's: Ad. 1. Answers to parliamentary questions and parliamentary questions Answering the parliamentary question, just to finish the conversation Mr. Ivo Miro Jović! The answer to the parliamentary question was received only by MP Ivo Miro Jović. I'm asking if he's happy with the answer. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u650	: Dear President, President, I... I received the answer and actually did not get the answer, that would be better... – neither of the institutions I asked, nor the answer nor the content of the answer corresponds to mine. Well, I guess a lot of people think I'm going to stop asking, I'm going to have questions today, I'm going to keep asking, so probably in the next time and repeat that same question. If I have to, I can explain what's going on, but maybe it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u651	Thank you very much, so that was the only answer. We've also heard dissatisfaction with this answer. I'm now asking if there are any new parliamentary questions? Who wants a word? Mr. Šaraba, please. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u652	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, this point could bear the name of parliamentary matters without this second part, because we don't get the answers. I've asked, at least so far, seven or eight questions, I don't even know the number, I haven't got any answers. And so are some other colleagues. So we'll probably get answers at the end or at some point in time in a little tighter bond. What I want to ask today is about a debate we had here at one of the last sessions of this distinguished home, and my question would be this and it would be concrete: What really happened to the basic agreement between the Serbian Orthodox Church and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was discussed at the session of the Bureau on 10 August this year? Namely, if we go back a little bit to the 6th session, that is to our session held on 29 June and when the basic contract between BiH and the Holy See was ratified, then it is clearly concluded that... immediately after the adoption of this document by the Presidency, he will find it at the first next session of the House of Peoples. And I, when I got the agenda for this session, was very surprised when, among the points that were determined and defined to discuss them today, I didn't find this point of the agenda. I, Mr. Chairman, personally feel deceived, have to say this word, for one basic reason why there are no points among these points today, and this point that we have considered here and defined, as serious people have agreed, that it will indeed be in the agenda. And that's why I'm asking this question, and I want you to answer it at the next session of this high house. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u653	Thank you very much. So there is only one first sentence in Article 145 that binds you – in writing to the chairman to deliver the question. Do it, give it to the Secretariat. Who wants another word? Any more questions? Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the BiH presidency today. I have learned from the press these days that the Bureau has made a decision to abolish some diplomatic and consular representations. And I wasn't surprised when among these, which should be numbed by diplomatic and consular representations, is one that was wanted, and a year ago it was just formed, covering an entire continent, and it's about South America, so the Presidency, so it made a decision to shut down the Embassy in Argentina. I would like to be informed, and I believe that many here know, say that citizens of this entire continent need visas for BiH, and in order to get a visa they must first extract a visa for the United States, then go to Washington, and get a visa for BiH. And what are these journeys from continent to continent for them to be here. 11 And secondly, which I was led to, is that we had – and I am glad that this is what the former foreign minister listens to, and fills the common problems that we managed in some way to solve the previous summers – when the columns of buses, not personal vehicles, buses, stopped at the borders, the southern borders of BiH, in order for the citizens of South America to walk to Medjugorje. So this is how religious tourism and the development of BiH are prevented, it's a direct blow, so I can't understand and understand what the Presidency was doing for this, I'm going to say, an unreasonable act. If that's rationalization, did it have to be there? Remembrances, I'd just say we have seven embassies in Arab countries. I'd like the effects and effects of seeing these embassies? So we leave more than half a billion people who need visas for BiH to go to another continent in another country where it's really very difficult to get a visa and enter the United States, and then take it out. And there is no possibility that at least this is how the presidency was managed, so that in the nearest of us neighbouring countries, for example Podgorica, Zagreb or Belgrade, these people could strike a visa and come to visit BiH in 2006 to meet young people; 34 thousand came from South America, 34 thousand. I'll deliver this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u655	We ask your one person from the Secretariat to take a written question from Mr. Šaraba and Mr. Jović. Who wants another word? Any more questions? We're finalizing a point... of attorney's question. We're going to point two, and that's ad. 2. The adoption of the minutes 6 and 7th session of the House of Peoples First we'll adopt the 6th session. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement for the 6th session. Still, it seems to me that by the next session we will have a qualified electronic vote, according to our Rules of Procedure, so we will continue to vote in cardboard. Who is “for” to accept the 6th session? I'm realizing that we're... Does anyone have “against”? “Contained”? I agree that we unanimously accepted the 6th session. I'm opening a debate on the 7th session of the House of Peoples. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I place the record of the 7th session of the House of Peoples. Who's "for"? 12 I agree that we also unanimously accepted the record of the 7th session of the House of Peoples. Point 3 is Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of BiH under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u659	Here, I'd tell you that I'm in favor of this law not being dealt with in this urgent procedure. I'll tell you as a manufacturer. So what we've been offered in this law is a very narrow framework for what this country's economy needs. So we have a huge problem: producers in this country, because with neighbouring countries with which we have a duty-free regime and those from the EU with which we have customs duties, therefore, under the Customs Tariff Act, customs duties that we pay when we import some re-promatter or raw materials from the EU, let's say, Austria, Hungary, does not matter, Slovenia, when we import from Croatia or Serbia, then these producers add that customs to our price. Since the framework offered in this proposal is very narrow for the needs of this economy, we must have time to give amendments to this law, and therefore I... suggest we go according to this hasty procedure, not this shortened procedure. Not in short, not in this emergency room. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u660	Thank you very much, Mr Ibrahimpašić. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u661	Dear Chairman, allow me to say a few words only regarding the procedure. So, I'm talking about procedure. The draft law was sent by the Council of Ministers on 21.8 and requested that this proposal be considered under the basic legislative procedure. Well, what changed in the meantime. Since the Council of Ministers, at its 19th session, held on 23.8th, considered and adopted the Information on the situation on the cereals market, with a proposal for measures to mitigate the effects of droughts and to calm down the rise of prices of cereals and cereals products,... the subsequent document called on the Parliamentary Assembly to adopt, following an urgent procedure, the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act, in order to allow imports of 100,000 tonnes of wheat without customs duty, for the purpose of the entity's trade reserves. If that's not enough reason to support the emergency procedure because of the lack of wheat, then I really don't know what other reason it should be. So, the Serbian People's Delegates Club will support this procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u662	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? I have an act in front of me, I have an act, so the Council of Ministers informs us, therefore, and prays what Mrs. Majkić said, does not beg but calls on the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to adopt, following an urgent procedure, the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act of BiH and an argument key to allow the import of 100,000 tonnes of wheat without customs duty for the entity's goods reserve, it is thought of both entities, so one Ministry of Finance and Treasury,... etc., the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to monitor this situation in this area etc. So this is in favour of how it came and what is required of the Council of Ministers. Not once asked of us... a regular legislative procedure, I only have an act of haste. 14 Who Wants a Next Word? So we have two suggestions. One is a proposal from the Council of Ministers that this goes by haste procedure. I warned you that the House of Representatives did not accept that procedure without amendments, but accepted a brief procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u663	Excuse me, please, can I just do it one more time?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u664	As much as you want. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u665	The chairman, it's only important when the House of Representatives has made a decision. Has the decision of the House of Representatives been made before this letter came from the Council of Ministers!? If so, then they didn't have any; it is very important when the House of Representatives made that decision!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u666	The act in front of me – I can talk about it because it is a fact – so it came to Parliament in the House of Peoples on 24.8.2007 from the Council of Ministers, when it was proposed, therefore, haste procedure, August 24. And when it was a session, that's what the Secretariat will tell us. We'll check it out. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u667	...please, if anyone only wants to pass for wheat such a regulation, this Parliament can bring it in as it has brought, remember, diapers for this producer from Gruda: only for diapers to lift customs. Don't let this whole yuppie work now and we're looking for a reason in the wheat. Please don't. I pay customs, my own customs, for all the repromary and raw materials I buy in Croatia and Serbia. And my competitors from Serbia and Croatia are not paying, because they have an agreement with the EU where they have a duty-free zone and their producers cannot add such things to their price. So I'm uncompetitive on my own market because we have a customs tariff that, here, I guess we'll sign that Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but if this continues as it continues, we'll never. That's why I want to fence, and I want to get time to make amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u668	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. I will use the Rules of Procedure again, therefore, which says: when it comes to the hasty procedures of one of the motions, the Proposer, at the request of the House, may state the reasons that led him to make it a hasty procedure. I'm asking an authority from the Council of Ministers to take your word for it. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u669	Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, my name is Hamdo Tinjak, Secretary of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. In the absence of the Minister and Deputy Minister, I am here. So, I can repeat what Ms. Majkić said, therefore, mostly cereal, problems related to the lack of grain, wheat and this corn were... led by the Council of Ministers with this request to go to an emergency procedure. I can't say anything new.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u670	Thank you very much, thank you very much. So we heard two conflicting proposals and, of course, I expected the motionor to stay at the position he referred to on 24.8.2007, because then the House of Representatives accepted it on 6.9.7., so, even though it was a matter of urgency, the House of Representatives accepted it as a matter of short procedure. I suggest our home to follow the House of Representatives. So, my little suggestion. It might be different, I don't know what we're going to do... if we get into the compliance phase, because we don't have a whole college here, we're going to get into a situation that we can't agree on, I warn you. To go into shorts, they're half cut, I mean, we don't know what third is. Of course, here you go, ladies are always right when they're not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u671	I just want to ask, and that question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, Mr. from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Will this country have consequences for this decision? If someone says we won't, we'll have enough grain until the usual legislative procedure passes, then I have no reason not to accept what you, Mr. Chairman, have said. Al’, if the Ministry tells me of any consequences, I cannot support such a proposal. I mean very rational.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u672	Thank you very much. So, I just want to find out, if, in any other form, this house decides, this half-region procedure of the House of Representatives will be waiting again. Please... from the Council of Ministers we will hear the position again. This is very important because of these 100,000 tons of wheat.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u673	Well, I must remind you that Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, along with our foreign trade minister, has recently agreed to one import of wheat and this corn in Hungary. Contacts have already been made... with the Embassy of Hungary here and activities are already being taken to obtain this – both wheat and corn. Of course, Hungary should... from the European Commission to ask the European Commission for consent to withdraw certain quotas of corn and wheat and we expect that during this period until this period, it is my personal opinion that it is not the opinion of the Council of 16 ministers but I know the activities that are happening, so that this amount of wheat may, in some period of two months, be very difficult to assess, because there is a procedure in the European Commission, so that it could possibly be imported to BiH. And that's about 40,000 tons of wheat and about 10,000 tons of corn.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u674	Thank you very much. We understood: So, within that time limit, while the wheat would be imported to BiH, the procedure in the House of Representatives will be completed in a shortened procedure. So now we're completely clear. Now can we bring these two diametrically opposite proposals closer together? We can. So my suggestion that this follow the decision of the House of Representatives is that the House of Representatives did not accept that we are going according to a hasty procedure without amendments; please, I appeal that we bow to this position and in this vote. So, for the debate, I'm concluding and voting whether or not we're going... with this law in an emergency procedure. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? Are there “restraints”? Three "abstained" votes, all others "against". So now we're pleading whether we're in favour of this law going according to a brief procedure. Who's "for"? Who is “against” and “abstained”? All "for", except for two votes which are "abstained". So, with this law in paragraph 4, we're going to go through a short procedure. Thank you very much for understanding. Point 5 is Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure before the Court of Justice of BiH, Second Reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the law. The House of Representatives passed this law, with the correction of the text in Serbian, which reads: in Article 4, the Council is replaced by the word "Council". So it's a total change at the House of Representatives. You've received a report from the relevant committee. The commission accepted the draft law in the proposed text as well as the House of Representatives, but the amendments to the bill were renewed by Mr Zoran Koprivica and two amendments. The amendments were not accepted by the Committee, but let the chairman of the Committee, Mr Jović, explain it to us. Here you go. 17 Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u676	: It is extremely important to have this problem resolved as quickly as possible, our commission had before it and the opinion of colleagues from the Constitutional Committee of the House of Representatives and the solutions they had offered. This led us to be on the same track, so that this law would be passed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u677	Thank you very much. ... I'm opening a debate about this. Does Mr. Koprivic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u678	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I do not think there is a particular need for me to further explain these proposed amendments to the Amendments and Supplements Act before the Court of Justice of BiH. The amendments are more formal-legal than essential, but in any case I remain with these amendments, despite being negative. Amendment I refers to the proposal to put an end to the individual in Article 1 of the proposed law, and to delete the words of the BiH Court of Justice. Explanation: pursuant to Article 13. The law on litigation of the RS procedure has been regulated to judge an individual judge in the first-degree procedure and in the procedure proposed for repetitive proceedings. It is a matter of the President of the Court to appoint judges to judge in a first-degree procedure, which is why I believe in the proposed text of the words of the BiH Court of Justice are too high and should be deleted. amandman ii: Article 4 of the proposed law in the position (1) instead of the words of the President of the Second Instance Council, and according to its approval, the members of the Council should stand the words of the President of the Second Instance Council; here is one error in the text of the President of the Second Instance Council, and instead of members of the Council to stand the words of the Council of a certain number of judges. Reason: According to the applicable Law on Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Slovenia and the general rule of litigation, the Court of Justice shall decide in the proceedings in respect of which an individual judge or in the Council is drawn up of a number of judges established by law. Thus, according to the provisions of the Law on Prosecution of the Republic of Slovenia: in a second-degree procedure in civil matters, the Council of the Three Judges decides by appeal, as well as the Council of the Three Supreme Court Judges by audit as an emergency remedy. I therefore believe that in the text of the proposed Law in amendments and additions to the Law on criminal proceedings before the Court of Justice of BiH, the Council should stand in place of members of the Council of a certain number of judges. 18 I don't know if it was enough to think that there was no need to further explain. I propose that this House consider these amendments and make a decision that is
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u679	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. I'm opening a debate, amendment by amendment. First of all, I am opening a debate on gospodin Koprivica's amandman that did not accept the Constitutional Commission. Does anyone in the Committee want a word about amandman I.? Mrs Alma is not a member of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Hilmo. So, I don't insist, but if you have needs, then it's about gospodin Koprivica's amandman I.. So maybe we should hear the argument why the commission rejected this amendment. It'll be easier for us to decide in the House. It's not necessary, so you don't have to, if you don't want to. The commission gave the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u680	The President of the Constitutional Commission, of course, expressed the Commission's position, I can only ask my colleague Koprivica... if he is ready to reconsider his reasons, so that we may invite him to give up the... amendment. And I will support, of course, the position I have...and on the Commission, and I expect other delegates to respect our reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u681	Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the plea of gospodin Koprivica's amandman, again undermining, which did not accept the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. Who's "for"? Five "for". Who is “against”? So, we don't have a.....no majority. So we're supposed to go to a match right now, so we'll leave it to agree after the College's in full composition. We don't have a chance to agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u682	There's no need to align.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u683	What do you mean, it's gone?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u684	There's not a lot of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u685	Wait a minute. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u686	He doesn't have a general majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u687	The entity majority...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u688	It has no entity, no general. There's no general in the first round, and there's no entity in the second round. It doesn't matter in the first round
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u689	That's right, that's right. No, no, it's 10, it's 9 out of 10, so the amendment didn't go through, I apologize to Koprivica. We're moving on to Amendment II. So there's no misunderstanding, the amendment hasn't passed. amandman II. We heard the explanation, do you want... I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Šaraba, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u690	Indeed, we have come to a specific situation, I should have said this before voting on this first amendment. I've had a feeling on the Commission, but it can also deceive me, that we adopted this first amendment: it seems to me that such an argument was. And in this second, we have just one game of words. I thus understood both the chairman and I do not know and Mr. Koprivica was close to me that this game of words and members of the Council and the members of the Council was essentially the same. Well, I thought we were really in agreement after that. Here, that's why I'm asking this question one more time and I want an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u691	Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission Jović. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u692	I don't think we should have discussed this at all. We'll go very badly if we correct language mistakes. So, then, it shouldn't be a matter of amendment. And that's why we said in the Committee: she accepts it, but it's not an amendment, it's a language policy. And it can't possibly be in the Serbian language of the Council of Ministers. It's pointless to make a decision about it. It's a language thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u693	It's a lecturing law. I'm obliged to put one and the other amendments to the plea. The amendments have been renewed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and there is no doubt about it,... and that may be 20 lecturing things. We are now pleading on amandman II.. Please, we are, who did not accept the commission. I'm still... asking if anyone wants a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u694	Well, is it said, as far as I understand it, the Commission has concluded that adaptation will take place, if that's advice to the council, is that what you have concluded!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u695	Well, that's when the amendment was accepted, practically. I don't know why it was restored. Please tell me, Mr. Neimarlija. You were on the Commissioner, it wasn't me, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u696	For the first amendment, counterpart Koprivica himself said it was technical. And he meant the other one, too. The second turned out to be... a lecturing error where the Council instead of the Council was used in Serbian, Serbian language. And, since it's mentioned in two formulations, actually in two sentences on several occasions and advice and councils, it's kind of linguistically complicated. And that, therefore, was a lecturing mistake that led my colleague Koprivica to submit the amendment, because it didn't seem all logical to him, not just linguistically, but it was a language error. I'm calling again, so we agreed, here, and I don't know if this one remembers giving up the amendment, because it can't actually be... an object of amendment action, but it's something that needs a lecturer to correct itself. And here, if we have to plead...!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u697	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. Mrs Alma Čolo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u698	Well, I don't know, maybe, maybe Mr. Zoran Koprivica had some other text of the law. In my text it literally writes as he suggested in his amendment. In my opinion, Article 4 states that a judge in a first-degree procedure, president of the Second-degree Council, and, under his approval, members of the Council may ask questions to parties, witnesses or witches at any stage of the hearing. I believe this is a Bosnian version of me and I have it the way he proposes in his amendment, so there's no need for us to plead on that amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u699	Mr. Koprivica, I've heard you a little differently. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u700	Here, I've just... this second amendment explained with this mistake which here in typing... may have led to some confusion. So, instead of the words of the President of the Second Instance Council, and according to his approval, members of the Council should stand the President of the Second Instance Council, and instead of members of the Council to stand the Council's words of a certain number of judges. So that's... that's the point. Read to the end this explanation in my amendments, so you will get to... the exact information – so, on this other page, at the end of the argument. So instead of the words of the members of the Council or of the Council, it is absolutely the same, the words of the Council or the Council of a certain number of judges should stand. That is the essence of this second amendment. So it's not just a word game, it's a essence. So, instead of saying to the members of the Council, the words of the Council or the Council of a certain number of judges should stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u701	Thank you very much, Mr. Koprivica. Mrs Alma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u702	Oh, I really do,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u703	It's an indisputable choir trial in a second-degree procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u704	I don't understand what this is about. Zoran suggested an amendment to the text as I read it. And now I don't know why it's a little different. The amendment must read as a member of the law wishes to be corrected. We can't read behind the reasoning that Zoran thought this member was supposed to read. So, the amendment has to read strictly the way he wants it to be in law. So if this is how we have the amendments, I really don't see the need to vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u705	It's clearer now, Zoran. You will stay on the amendment, or you will withdraw it. I'm putting on a plea. So, I'm closing the debate and I'm putting it on amandman II.. gospodin Koprivica. Who is “for” this amendment? One, two, three, four; Šaraba, are you in favor of this amendment? No, I don't. Four "for". Who is “against” this amendment? The amendment didn't get enough support. And one is “sustained”. Okay. We're voting on this law right now and we're voting practically on the Committee's report and on this law. 22 Who is “for” this report of our Constitutional Justice Commission, please make a statement? You picked up, Mrs Alma, you're "against," right? So everyone is “for” except for one “abstained” voice, two “abstained” voices. I ask that we plead then and on this law in the proposed text, which is identical to the text accepted in the House of Representatives. Who's "for"? “against”? “Contained” two. The others supported this... law. We're going to point six, that's ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Competition Act, second reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: House of Representatives The second reading discusses amendments. There was no amendment. The proposer of this law is the House of Representatives. You've reached the Committee's report. The commission has accepted this law as it came from the House of Representatives. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on the statement of the draft law amending the BiH Competition Act. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? “Contained”? So we unanimously adopted the law under point 6. Moving to point 7, that's "Ad." Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detention and other measures, second reading - Proposer: Envoy Mr. Slobodan Šaraba (application of the new Rules of Procedure)
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u708	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, I can say again, only part of what I had previously expressed in explaining this text of the law when in the first 23 reading was found here in the procedure in front of fellow MPs; meaning, the aim of my proposal, which was then given support, was to create the possibility of more efficient implementation of the treatment, or when for security reasons an excessive number of prisoners appear in entity offices. So the goal was to give the minister the possibility that in special situations, precisely defined and strictly established, one possibility that he could use only in these situations. I am staying with my allegations, Mr. Chairman, which are contained in this Commission report as well as in earlier reports. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u709	Thank you very much. We heard the promoter. Who wants another word? Perhaps it would be good to hear the opinion of the restoring ministry or the council of ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u710	I will try... to express briefly why the Ministry of Justice did not support this proposal... MPs. In fact,... it is a fact that around 270 people by the BiH Court have been referred to upholding the fine, and that the BiH Court has designated a detention measure for more than 700 people. And BiH for such purposes is being seduced by the entity. So, this category of persons addressed by the Court of Justice of BiH has led to an exaggeration that has existed before in BiH's institutions. In order to address the issue, there was also a recommendation from the Council of Europe which asked for them to be met previously, so to speak, accommodation conditions and that, eventually afterwards, the agreed norm would have to consider the criteria. So, when the proposal was made, it was proposed to expand the detention unit at BiH level, from 20 to 36 places, to build a state prison and to build special departments for high-risk persons in Foca and Zenica. None of this aspect is fulfilled. So by 31.12., according to the Council of Ministers' earlier decision, it sought to be a state prison. So he's just at the beginning. Yes, it is uncertain when it will be finished. The enlargement of the detention unit has not yet occurred, and also our minister is according to the earlier recommendation of the vjeće of Europe when he supported the request that entities open new special departments in Foca by 30 high,... department for 30 high-risk persons and in Zenica 40. So no accommodation capacity is open for this legal norm to be realistic. So if she existed now, they wouldn't be able to apply her to me. Secondly,... these two elements which Mr. MP stated: the realization of treatment and security reasons. They already exist in the law in Article 149 and the minister of justice has the right for these two reasons to move prisoners from one entity's office to another. In order for us, if there were these accommodation facilities, we would be obliged by European...criteria to set standards in that legal norm. So the Justice Department had criteria, and if these were accommodation facilities, we would have proposed this member. So we had, uh, as one of the criteria, were, that the prisoner had already endured, say, three-fifths, that there was consent from the Justice Department of the Entity that only the promoter could be the manager of the Bureau and so on. However, since there has been no sign of these accommodations, the opening of new accommodation facilities, so at this point it is shown as prematurely a general debate on this member. So we don't have, so to speak, how it... legal bodies, says, real social conditions for the 24 application of this legal norm, in general embezzlement right now. Maybe in half, in a year, a year and a half, but not now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u711	Thank you very much. So we heard the position of assistant minister of justice.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u712	And I mean, we support this position of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u713	We heard Mr. Bisić as assistant minister of justice. Who wants another word? I'm closing the debate. We have a position before us, so we also have the report of the Committee, and we have the position of the Ministry of Justice. I'm asking to make a statement on the Committee's report. Who's for the Committee report? That's nine "for". Who is “against”? Two "against". “Contained”? So, we accepted the Committee's report, so we practically rejected the law. It's under 8. Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Taxes of BiH, second reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The House of Representatives passed this law in the proposed text. There was no amendment, so we can't hold a debate on the amendments. Still, I ask who wants the word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a statement of the bill. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? “Contained”? I find that we unanimously adopted the Law under regular number 8. Number nine is Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enabling of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account, second reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH 25
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u716	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would only like to make a small introduction. We know how much and since we've been dealing with one and then with another law on old foreign currency savings. I remind you that the Council of Ministers formed a working group that was composed, among other things, by representatives of the Association of Old Foreign Savings. As a fruit of the agreement, i.e. the talks, I cannot say an agreement because one position here is not agreed, these amendments, which the Council of Ministers has delivered, mean on its first amendment, have now come to this second one, which practically is the amandman Ii which is in agreement with representatives of old foreign savings, means with their approval and it is: That... insurance for uninterrupted measurement of liabilities on the basis of old foreign savings accounts will not be conditioned by redistribution of public spending funds or budget rebalancing, i.e. that there will be the possibility of redistributing the amount of funds in the budget, for the purpose of more favourable conditions of return of old foreign exchange savings. So, I remind you that this amendment has been accepted by the Association of Old Foreign Savings. The second amendment speaks of the alignment of deadlines from the implementation and implementation of the entity's rules, and allows the Agency to end the verification process and the amendment is in line with representatives of the old foreign savings. The third amendment, which refers to the payment and interest deadline, where no agreement has been reached at the work group level and according to what the Council of Ministers claims for this member, means it remains that it is a return to foreign savings of up to 13 years, which is replaced by words of up to nine years. What you... The Council of Ministers believes that... the reduction cannot be further carried out because these foreign savings requirements threaten the country's fiscal sustainability. Finally, Amendment IV, which is also in line with representatives of old foreign savings, which puts the settlement treatment on the basis of old foreign savings at the same level, is a priority as the settlement of liabilities based on the service of external debt. There are some nomotechnical discrepancies, we have agreed as a commission,... expecting it to be corrected,...and the mistakes that are of nomotechnical nature that have arisen as a result of work in the competent ministry. And on the basis of the Commission's work, it was unanimously adopted the draft law with the amendments adopted and found that this law should be passed. And I remind the House of our conclusion that the Council of Ministers is obliged, or 26 of the Ministry of Finance and of the vault that it is mandatory after the verification is completed says finally... which deadline for the return of the old foreign currency savings is. So we're waiting for the verification period to end to see what level of funds it's about to come up with then and definitely changing for a deadline, for size, for interest. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u717	Thank you very much. So, we have now heard the position of the relevant commission and Mrs Majkić, who is headed by this Finance and Budget Commission. I wish we could hear now the position of someone from the Ministry of Finance and the vault. Anybody here present? Mr. Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u718	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, all present at this session, and in particular the representatives of the savings, I feel obliged, before making a statement about this law at today's meeting of the House of Peoples, to explain some of the extorted moves that we have had to make these past months. In the debate we held at several meetings of the Committee, and even in the public debate that we held on this issue and in the consultations we conducted on the broadest possible basis, I was one of those people who advocated a compromise between the possibilities of debtors to pay debts that are real, which are unquestionable, which cannot be questioned in any circumstances and the rights of property owners, or money to reach their money in the best possible way and with the slightest loss. In this regard, we and through the Committee on Budgets and Finance also included two extremely important savings associations, offered to participate in what the Council of Ministers and accepted in a special committee that should work on partnership with the Council of Ministers and offer us some solutions that would be a common solution. Unfortunately, something happened that I hadn't personally calculated back then in those thoughts, I didn't think that those views would remain so distant in some important issues, and once I realized that it was illusory to expect that this compromise would be achieved. Therefore, the question of the repayment period seems to me to have led to a level of harmonisation of the position which may also be achieved by consensus between the Council of Ministers, i.e. this Parliament and the savings associations. The question of interest rate has so far removed views that we are now in a position where we have to decide whether the greater harm is not to pass a law that is not ideal or to pass a law, and that some questions that have not reached agreement remain as they are. I bowed to this position that I think most of the savings stand on. When I talk about most of the savings, then I think about the savings that have most of the capital, who are interested in ending this agony because if we had the courage to pass any law seven years ago, we wouldn't be discussing this issue anymore today. And I'm very sorry that in some issues and savings associations, they don't show a sense of reality. The interest rate that this is about, and by my understanding of both the professional and professional and the relationships that exist in the financial world both in the country and in the EU countries and in all 27 financial institutions, is simply not real. And for this reason, I will define today, with everything I have tried to do to find a solution, vote for this law and allow those who wish to exercise their rights through the provisions of this law, which in no way raises the right of those who are not satisfied to seek protection and other means of justice in and outside the country. So, I'm sorry it didn't come to an agreement, it seems to me that we're close to having a period of between seven and nine years, a period of payment. Another thing in the end: also in the letter received from certain associations and in some media statements could be seen, it seems to me, quite unargumented and arbitrary interpretation that some of the elements of the acquisition of property, sometimes called even very explicit and very rude robbery, will also happen with securities, i.e. bonds that BiH will issue and hand them over to the owners of old foreign currency accounts. The first thing is to distinguish terms; I think anyone who understands financial relations and capital, the issue of the value of bonds, records and other forms of value must distinguish the issue of certificates, which were an artificial form of securities, which has its real cover, has its real basis. I personally think it will not happen, that the story with the certificates will not be repeated again and that what Minister Vrankić recently announced in an off-the-book conversation may not be able to issue in less than half a year for deposits under the old foreign currency savings will reach very quickly very real prices and that there will be no repeat of the story about the possibility of buying assets from poor citizens. So, with all apologies to both citizens and savings, I believe that lawmaking is in their interest, and the delaying of the solution is not in their interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u719	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Who wants another word? Mr. Šaraba. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear friends, so when we go back a little bit and look at the papers we have in front of us, we can see a situation that's quite specific. In fact, when this task force was formed and this business started to solve this issue, I think we all thought that we were on the verge of reaching an agreement and a solution to this very complex and complicated issue. First of all, because all the relevant factors and representatives of all those institutions and associations that should have really been there to resolve this issue have entered the Working Group. Unfortunately, we have a very specific situation today, we have before us a law that we need to pass and solve the problem of foreign savings, on the other hand we have the same foreign savings against, which are against such a solution. So I'm really asking myself a question: whose problem we're solving, whether we're solving our problem or solving these people's problem. Obviously, we are solving, that the current government is solving its problem and that it wants this issue removed from the agenda, and on the other hand we have the agony of these people who are likely to continue. 28 Therefore, I believe that today the best variant was what I proposed, Mr. Chairman, at the beginning, we were probably in a position to write a letter and request to the Constitutional Court, asking for the priority resolution of this case in the Constitutional Court, and then finally to achieve one agreed solution. I fear that by adopting the text of the law in this form, as it has been established, we will not solve anything and that the agony that exists will continue. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u721	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. So, meanwhile, Deputy Finance Minister Kasumović also came. I'm begging him to take his word for it. Maybe some things will be clearer to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u722	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I will try very briefly, very decidently, to let you know what this is all about. So it's not true that we're adopting the law today, but that we're adopting changes to the law. The law that is in force says that we will return those savings in 13 years, with this law we are reducing to nine years. It's just that I'm gonna explain right now that it's not what. Like this. The Council of Ministers caught up with this to solve this problem, appointed me president of the commission. And I've held a few meetings with the Savings Association along with the people of the entity, is the entity ultimately paying back these debts. So, for any change, I needed consent and entity. The most important thing is the following, we must all understand and admit it – there are many victims of war in this country. The Savings Association is only one part of those victims and the state will begin to solve through various... many of these victims of war. Why did the savings come first in line? That's because they've been organized before, but it's time for this job to be done. Many associations – I am, we did not as a ministry get what you have from an association – about 16 savings associations exist; I do not know the meaning from which you received it, and it does not matter. So anyone who wants to solve this problem should vote to adopt this law to get into the realisation of it. We put in these amendments to the law on purpose up to nine years. It means in the variant that when the verification is carried out, when we find out that there are much less funds than we predict, we'll probably be in the variant, I say, that's why it stands up to nine years, not nine years, that we're going to reduce that number of years depending on how the state can. Nine! We've agreed with foreign exchange savings all but two points. And that's interest, and that's a return date. Secondly, I'm going to ask all the media today, so the verification was extended until September 30th, that's some more, I don't know, a few days. I'm really asking and I'm going to explain that everyone knows... what that means. So, after that deadline? _________(?) 29 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u723	Please, no dialogue. I won't allow that, otherwise you'll be removed from the hall. It's commercially unauthorized. I'm sorry, you won't be conducting the dialogue, please, I beg you nicely, allow the Deputy Minister to deliver his word. Listen patiently.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u724	So, I want to explain this: what happens after... the day the verification ends and we go to bonding! It will happen as follows: these people who now and boycott or will not verify the savings and will not lose;... this savings is their private property, and they will be able to obtain it by judicial means, but the court will then judge it in the following way: because there is a law, they will, this dispute will last about two years and will again get the number of years that they receive under this law, so I advise all those who have the foreign savings to verify it and that they will receive bonds by 30 March next year. The bonds will be issued by the Central Bank of BiH. I'll say for all those who, and that's Mr. Rajić's earlier esteemed said, so for those bonds already world banks are asking to go. I mean, it's never going to happen again with these bonds' certificates, that's for sure, guaranteed, that's the first financial work this country's ever done. We're very studioy with the US Treasury made a plan and it goes its course. Once again, I call upon all those who have not verified themselves to carry out their verification and we go into this process and we end it. I repeat, most of the questions were what would happen to people who did not verify savings. So it's their private property, they can never ask for a return, but the courts won't react as they are now going to judge it one way or another. They will have a law that says that, within nine years, it returns, that annual anunities are equal, etc., etc. Therefore, I ask you, since it is a very short term, a very short time to adopt this law, is this in the interest of and savings, as well as the states of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u725	Thank you very much, Mr. Kasumović. Mr. Jović asked for a word. Here you go. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u726	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Extremely important matter and we have heard here from the chairman of this committee for the solution of this issue appointed by the Council of Ministers – its position and opinion. We, I think, have been discussing for a minimum of five years how to reconcile our obligations to people who have been stolen to a certain extent. How were they stolen? So on every role these people have given, and they trusted the state, because it was written within every savings book: for this role is guaranteed by the state. If there was a continuity of the state, and we want to and we want to have it, then we need to have both continuity and commitment as well as in those duties of that country. Why would I mention that? Four or five years ago, I sat in front of this topic so many times with representatives of the international community and domestic authorities when no one wanted to hear about this problem. And usually from the international community, they would get from representatives of the 30 international community that it's impossible, that it will never come back, that it's not a debt of the country, that it's already eaten in green and that it's gone. Who in this land in charge and the problems of war would think more about it? That is why, I am extremely important, and I am happy that it has come into place, that the representatives of the government, the Council of Ministers and saves, find the common language as it is, in order to overcome this problem. I think maybe there's a little more hearing missing each other and there's a lot, a lot, a lot, a lot better solutions. But one thing remains a bitter taste in one, it is that at that time, when this problem could be recognized, I refer to the question of succession, the funds of the then authorities four or five years ago said they had gone to Belgrade and had concluded there that this country had not benefited from them. I'll take it. But we came in a position to share what we had from the old state, that what was given in cash was not recognized. I mostly have neighbors who spent years or tens of years abroad leaving their grandparents and grandparents with no attention they needed from their children. There was a family waste, kids were leaving, they weren't studying, they were going to drugs, etc. Hundreds of such ruined families who went towards profit, or went towards having funds, and then invested it in the banks that worked here, and today they came in a position not to benefit from it in the late years. Compassionately with them, and when this law came which we now want and we want to fix, understanding the problem as a member of the BiH presidency, I gave it to the assessment of constitutionality for moral reasons, because I insist on standing in the view that these people should be compensated. I don't know if there's gonna be any interest, this big or that much, I don't know. I'll say it again: I'm happy to have those funds back. Because only four years ago, no one thought about coming back. And fair and square to come back. Therefore, it would not be possible to diverge on these issues, when it comes to the amount of interest – it is extremely important that there is interest. If people had mastered two years ago, three, with these funds, today they would have been in development and BiH, as well as their personal benefits. When it comes to certificates? Why don't you say,...there were specific people who at the time advocated going immediately with the release of certain, I'll say paper money. Then my question was always: So this is a climate where people don't believe! Why don't they believe it? They've been cheated so many times. And that's why it's hard to convince people from this domain, which we call old savings, I don't know why she'd be old, or why she'd be new, it's simply savings and those savings don't trust what's called a certificate or, I don't know what she's called, I'm not an economist. Why don't they? I said, 'cause they've been cheated so many times. But there is one fact that I would point out and call for understanding. They've got nothing in their hand so far. If these arise, the adoption of this amendment and the addition of this law will surely have one document issued by the State. On the day of arrival or maturity, he will have exactly the kind of value he writes on it. It is also true that those who go round greens and earn money will look at other people's misery, who will offer certain means of modesty to buy out those certificates. And they will be ready and ready to wait for that time to realize it. That's one cowardice, on that side. The question is how many people died before they had nothing. This is how I want to balance my views and attitudes toward the promoter and those who will need to benefit from it. This country will benefit from having peaceful citizens and satisfied citizens in their function and roles and sitting here like you. I don't know. This is a specific situation today, in which a negative attitude toward something that is improving is shown. I'd be inclined to fix 31 as much as possible, and then, in the coming time that we are in a hurry in the same way and lobbying and pressing the body of the government, according to the possibilities of the country, we're fixing this situation further. It seems to me that this is being imposed at this point as logical, seeing the complete path we've been through. My request to the Constitutional Court does not refer to this law that we are discussing today – well, that is what needs to be said clearly. That was my request under that law that was passed. The Constitutional Court, based on that request, should have and should have made that decision a long time ago, 11 months ago. Now, that slowness should be close to saving associations. What happens if we're still prolonging this solution in a few years? And if we don't take it one step at a time, it seems to me that it's going to go through the next decade. I don't know how clear I was in this whole thing, but she wanted to point out that something had happened and that there was a solution in sight. But we can certainly do so if we show mutual respect and understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u727	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. So that's what I wanted, why I asked that we don't have a dialogueal form. So I don't even allow dialogueal form amongst MPs. He has every right to speak here. Whoever has the right to say a word will get the word. So, I would like this debate on this very important topic in this country, when it took place in the earlier period, in some period of seizing private property from the citizens of BiH, where the state is obliged to return what it took to the citizens. Yes, it's the thesis on which I represent my view of this law ever since he appeared in the procedure and when the problem of foreign savings savings came up. But I ask that this debate be held in this home in one tolerated atmosphere, in one tolerated and civilized atmosphere. To be on the trail of what I said – so we heard...... Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Kasumović; the representatives of the savings were involved in all the processes of passing such and such a law, so, like it or not, they were involved in this process – I propose to this home, and I suggest first of all here present savings, you are not all there, but who is there, you agree, you will get one word and you to hear a letter, so which we have not all been able to read, agree on who it is, but without any ugly words, so in one atmosphere that we are having debates at the House of Nations. We will not deny the arguments of others, until the MPs have exhausted their debates, they will get the word, whoever wants to go past the Rules of Procedure, we have no obligation to give you the word. We will give one person, for which you agree, one person, please one person will make his argument, until then the MPs will have a debate. You follow, and if necessary, we will ask for more times, I do not call you for a word; you will be given a word after we have exhausted the debate by the authorising officer and representative in this Chamber. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. And you get ready to argue.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u728	Thank you. I have an obligation to say that the Commission, too, and, at the invitation of ours, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, was extremely zealous to observe this whole procedure, looking at what this law will eventually come about. 32 Until recently, it was unimaginable that the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury had an obligation to keep an eye on the state of the budget and the possible surplus that arises before the direction for that purpose. That was... recently unimaginable. Until recently, it was unimaginable that the liabilities to the old foreign savings had the same treatment as the liabilities to the foreign debt. And that was unimaginable. Try to be good-willed from 13 to 9, it can't be underestimated. I can't figure out the position of foreign savings that says everything we've agreed, we haven't agreed, and those nine years are not finally, but those nine years, we'll see how much we're going to go down, the moment we see... what are the obligations, what is the total debt to the savings. And to finally get a letter – in which both public appearances and letters in person – are attacked by individual representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, from one home and another, and does not respect all this effort that we have all put together. I know this is taking too long, but it's not my fault, nor do I trust any of these people sitting here and I don't want to bear the consequences. So, as a man, for my part, it is my duty to properly analyse the law that is before us, to force as representatives of the legislative authority to do everything in its power to repair the situation. But don't let us threaten each other! I also told you on the Commission: we must be partners if we are to succeed in this business. We're working on a common ground, it's not you on the other side, we need to listen to what you're saying, but don't say that if we don't agree on one thing today, it doesn't mean we won't agree in two months. I'm asking for a little more tolerance between you and me, and for you and for us. There, just so much to say: that the Commission is now and so far and in the future to deal with this problem, so I also ask for the understanding of the old foreign currency savings.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u729	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr Ibrahimpašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u730	No matter what I can do here today. We have one proposal to amend and supplement the law; I can raise my hand to him or I can raise my hand against him! And I would, convinced Be Šaraba, that it was for them progress if I didn't raise my hand to that law, if, if it were better for them, I wouldn't raise. No, but if it were worse for them than what we have, I wouldn't raise my hand for it. However, as this is better for them than what we have, I will raise my hand to that law. What do we got? We have an extension of the funding base, so we had a budget there; there's no budget, there's nothing else the government can do. Now we have a succession here, and, I don't know, the possibility... of what's left in our budgets, is it neutral to finance that debt, so either way, this is better for the savings than what we have. And that's why I'm gonna raise my hand to that law. Which he's not better yet, believe me, I've done everything I could to make him even better. But obviously it wasn't realistic for it to be even better now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u731	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. Who wants more from? Mr. Šaraba, please. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u732	I'll just be a minute. Dear colleague, it's best to hear foreign exchange savings. It means they say their own opinions. Don't let us teach them what's good for them. For them it is good that they do what they say and what they say. If they wrote this letter, and I really feel them as serious people, and in it they say some things, then we as people doing serious things, we really have to take it seriously. What happens if they fill in some of the things that are listed here? Who's gonna... deal with some consequences that can come after that? So that's the side we have to look at too. And I have to answer to an esteemed colleague from the executive authority who said, "We've agreed on everything, we're only not about interest and the time to return." If you didn't agree on those two things, you didn't agree to anything. So you absolutely didn't agree anything if you didn't agree on these two things. Those other things are side-by-side. It's about interest, and it's about getting back! We arranged everything but those two things we didn't. So let's hear people: if they think this isn't good for them, then I really don't think it's good. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u733	Mrs. Čolo, please. Thank you, Mr. Šarab.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u734	...I have one proposal to listen to the representatives, because you've allowed one of them, foreign savings. Since here I have to admit that I am somewhat confused, because there are more of these associations, I have talked to some people, on their initiative, and they have made a valid complaint that they could not participate in the talks about making the text of this law, even though they were nominated to this working group, so I would really like to hear the other side of the story, because this law should be passed for them, and not for us. And I'd like to see what these people have to say, and only then do I judge based on what they say and, of course, it matters if their views are unique, given that there are more of these associations and now we don't know who in the name they're talking about. But if they put out a single position, of course we as delegates should appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u735	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u736	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u737	The MPs will be given a word no matter what form they ask for it, until we have exhausted the debate. Therefore, this applies to authorised applicants. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u738	I just, after Mrs. Čolo's speech, just to say that for a long time we've been dealing with who's actually a representative of the old foreign savings, and by their proposal we've appointed as the three largest groups and Mrs. Omersoftić was the only one who didn't attend a session in Bihac when this working group worked. She got a call but she felt that, I don't know, she had her own reason why she didn't come, everyone else was there. So the Working Group can't work with 14 representatives. A representative sample is always chosen. We felt that the representatives proposed by the Commission were representative and they participated. So what I was reading at the beginning of the law, about the amendments, I was saying what was agreed, and what wasn't, so they were sitting. So, just so there's no confusion that some of them were supposed to be -- they weren't. It wasn't because...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u739	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr. Rudo Vidović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u740	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a representative, I would like to make a brief statement about this, as someone has already said, a very important question, not only for the savings, but also for those of us who, here, are in a situation to accept the law or refuse. If this question were easy to resolve, it would probably be resolved from the moment it was opened. I did not participate in talks with representatives of associations and associations, but what I have information with individual savings, Mr Božo Rajić said that some of them are thinking that this issue is legally resolved and that the possibility of...and final resolution is opened. A lot of arguments and concerns have been said, which is why we have such a serious debate. I'm not going to repeat them, but I'm going to join my colleagues who are clearly told here, at the pay phone, that this law needs to be defined today, and in that sense I'm going to support him, aware that he has, here, and painful details about what was said, but look, the time has to come to go, here, and legislatively solve this issue. In my opinion, it's today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidović. Anyone else want a word from an agent and an authorised promoter? So, before I give my word, I would like to ask, therefore, that one representative of all the associations here – you have agreed, therefore, to be Mrs Omersoftić. I will say this, therefore, not about the letter, not about the assessment of the constitutionality of the act that is before the Constitutional Court, we are talking about the proposal to amend and supplement the Law that we had and which is now before us, which we, as we have already heard, will plead - accept or reject. Please... let us hear your argument and do not; therefore, whom did you agree to speak – Mrs Omersoftić or You, Mr Nišić?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u742	35 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u743	Please, one of the associations, please, and you have your five minutes. So this is your democratic right, use it in Parliament. We said one thing... if Dom says you're all talking, then you'll all talk. I'm under the impression that it's the House's consent to hear from one of the authorities in your group.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u744	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u745	Please nice, sir, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u746	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u747	Please, don't abuse my good will to give you my word past the Rules of Procedure. Let it be one of you, I won't... Here you go, Mr. Nišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u748	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you first that we are authorized to attend such a gathering and our chairmans who are really trying to explain some things about this great problem that has not been solved for 16 to 17 years. This is a small step, a small beginning that has indeed been shown by some responsible MPs who have sworn to protect fundamental human rights, and this right protects not only against foreign savings but also against themselves and others. What's the problem here? We said, the problem is that no one has ever raised a question, the foreign savings have been written off. Mr. Vrankić, I have to tell him honestly here, that he told me that it was written off a long time ago some three or four years ago, and then it started with some verifications of 100 marks, so when people didn't respond, then they went after 1,000 marks, and then they went to RS even 2,000 marks. It's not a verification problem. Verification is a problem in this sense as they do. Verification is nothing more than checking the data: whether it agrees with the booklet with its account – disagrees. The problem is that they defend the verification. We have concrete data where we have also made criminal reports, where we have found that foreign currency savings, at least in RS, is registered from booklets and... state capital. That's proof, that's not what we're saying by heart. We have all and one document. Mr Kasumović, I would publicly tell you that the deception of foreign savings and NGOs, even if I run it, and for 50 years I've learned in Europe what it means to lie, not lie, and here it's only being deceived, is not agreed as you said, 36 Mr. Kasumović, June 15, when the Council of Ministers met and you were there proposed for the main man. We went out with a concrete platform where we said this: gentlemen, they asked us to move with the five years this distinguished home voted last year, and you know it's too long and we move how long. We said, "Here's seven years." In seven years, 50% of these people won't be alive. That's what you know, it's a population between 65 and 90 and 100 years old. We said we have a platform to talk about, we won't, we'll give you seven years and 5% interest. Mr. Vrankić offered me 4% then in front of everyone. I said we couldn't accept it without a savings assembly. That was it. And We said, "If we are to negotiate, these two points must be classified, they have accepted." So what happens next? We went to negotiations here in Sarajevo and Bihac. Mr Kasumović, the record says that a revision of the current... agencies that have abused citizens, who alienated their foreign exchange savings, will be transferred to their private accounts and bought the social, state capital that is all of us capital. We said there'd be a review, and then we'd go to a press conference together. If that's not true, you say so, and then we'll call the foreign currency savings together for a data check. But we said we weren't going to verify the kind she's been before. So, honourable MPs, you don't know what happens on foreign exchange savings. It's me, we've tried to get you some documents that sometimes come to someone or not, but if you want to, and you want us to bring complete documentation that's been investigated along with SIPA! At 10:00 p.m. yesterday, I was led by SIPA to see how to build a house in a month of 2 million marks for Mr. Milorad Dodik's advisor. Please, it's a foreign savings account. We won't get over it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u749	I'm asking you not to call anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u750	Here, it's over, it's over. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u751	Be tolerated.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u752	Here we go. So we agreed to go to the data check and be there by September 30th. People, citizens who have foreign savings, he doesn't have to go sign. You have to pay 20 marks and sign that they'll give you some papers that I have a whole bunch of on me; what people have brought, they've never been paid. There is no deadline, nor will there be a term of maturity, nor who will answer for them, but these old men will be sent, behold, to these same mechanics who robbed us, that we should go and sell them our bonds. Please, if we're gonna do something concrete, we're gonna make a deal. I ask you not to go through with this, but to sit down once again, but with the presence of you several serious MPs, to listen to how the negotiations are done, and to bring the joint ones; the foreign currency savings are ready, the victims are 17 years, 16 years old, and to solve the issue together, to accept what is real. If someone's covering the bond, they say I've got the covers, why they want the bond. So you have money for the bond, you can give it to 37 -- 100, 200, 300 or 500 marks when it comes to it -- not to go to the stock market, somewhere to sell to someone, and we know who it's selling to. Therefore, all that has been said so far is not so, Mr Kasumović, as we have agreed. If it isn't, you say we'll hold a joint press conference, we'll call foreign savings, etc. I'd like to ask the lady, the distinguished Mrs. Majkić, one question without you all hearing. The pre-election campaign went through – Mrs. Majkić went on TV with me, on the radio, went to public information funds and asked that foreign currency savings be paid immediately in cash, so that these people can't take it anymore, these people can't wait any longer. I ask the question: How did that change so quickly with her? Why do we say it like this once and again? What are those interests? But I'll also tell you that 2 billion marks in RS, as in the Federation, you condemn yourself, 2 billion marks were stolen by the foreign exchange savings of state capital. We have the name and last name of the people, we have criminal charges, there's the International Court, there's the Council of Europe, the gentleman who deals with human rights in Strasbourg. We've informed them all about it. Now I ask you a question, I thank all those who have understanding for those sick and old people who have left their lives for what's been built here. We all had, profited until the '90s from that money. I think we are. Since '63. For years, I invested, and some of them continued, and these people are sick. I, this is how I thank you – I ask and ask, if I may, to draw up a committee of negotiations from all committees of MPs, representatives from the House of Peoples and the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers and foreign savings to sit together and to follow the public, so that we cannot deceive each other. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u753	Thank you very much, Mr. Nišić. I suggest you do it like this. We heard, therefore, one of the savings from the RS. We'll also hear from Mrs. Amila Omersoftić of the Federation. After that, I'm opening a debate. So, the word will have representatives who want and we will hear Mr Kasumović in the end and we would conclude the debate. Please, we will not break any more rules: one from the RS, one from the Federation, that is a complete one picture in BiH. Here you go, Mrs. Amila.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u754	Good afternoon. Thank you very much for giving me a chance to speak, because this is my first chance to make serious remarks specifically to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u755	This is the House of Peoples, this is not the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u756	Okay. We tried to say something to the people at the House of Representatives, but it was very short, we didn't. 38 So, for this association that I represent: registered on 24 April 2004, at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH, it represents everything in its membership, because in its title, he put in his Statute the Association for the Protection of Foreign Savings, not for the payment of savings or anything but exclusively for the protection of foreign savings. It was done on purpose because the victims were practically saving here, not... the victims. So, our association that had no opportunity to speak, to be a member of the Commission because, although we are the oldest at the state level, we were not chosen to be in the Commission set up by the Council of Ministers. When I was invited to come to Bihac, that commission was already out of office. From a continued legal uncertainty, which this state produces vis-à-vis savings, which has established the House of Human Rights since 2000, you know for seven years that the problem of foreign savings has been a problem of legal uncertainty and their absolute inability to come into possession of their property, therefore, out of such legal uncertainty go to an informal meeting, where nothing could really be agreed on, because it was not a negotiating position in which the deputy who belongs, therefore, by bonds, the state is now taking over from the banks, transferring obligations to himself, not with the trustee to discuss, will not negotiate, will not write an agreement. So, I think it was just closing one fog. We asked the savings - we can, we cannot, not the negotiations, it was a dictatorship by the Council of Ministers so that all the consequences of the legal uncertainty that this country's products will not be covered - they will not. I am now telling you about the Association of Foreign Savings which I represent: it has not been disputed for nine years, listen, please, it is not disputed. Here, I say we understand that the state can't even make 0.5% of the interest up to 2.5% of the interest afterwards; and that's not controversial either. It's a dispute that savings are wrong, which the law doesn't apply, and what agencies are supposed to do is make a legal deal between me who has foreign exchange savings and the state that takes over, cheats on me, doesn't let me approach me, doesn't let me get there at all. He won't let me, I don't have any proof. We know what Bosnia went through. Here, in front of me, I will now tell you, Mrs Dujmović, Dujmović Ivka from Modrich – there are women and payments from Germany, but someone has decided to say that her account is not in that bank. You can't prove anything, look out, that's the problem. How many killed in this country, how many banished, how many burned. No Niko in the Eggs can prove that they have their savings because someone's got a crush on them now. I don't know how many taken, exiled people, foreign exchange books, so by law in the RS that it could sell foreign savings, it passed its foreign exchange savings on to its book. Today, people, 60% of people with foreign currency savings are unable to get their hands on money, are unable to show up to say they have their rights. That is, a consequence that no one would listen to me for these four years, saying: "Don't, people, because all the consequences and the consequences of what happened from 1997 to 2004, and since 2004, therefore, further cheating has started. So I can now conclude that the Council of Ministers, the state has decided, here's the law, but we've made a law in which we're going to give 40% of the savings that we can; we're going to say it's not a billion and 900 as much as we say it is, but foreign exchange savings is 500, I don't know, say, half, and now we're going to share those we've verified with that it's been, believe me, so it's been very hard for me, there's been a play between agencies, savings and finance ministries. So, we have one discrimination, we have one thief we tried,...when we realized we couldn't solve through law, through power, we as an association went to trial and said: we're asking the court to verify our rights, to eliminate all this crime that has been committed with these old people for 17 years. A lawsuit against banks that have data was filed against 39 banks in Ljubljana and Slovenia. Look, we're hiding the data here, totally destroying it in this one; here are the databases of our claims from Slovenia and Serbia. That's what our government does. We're not allowed to, so get to it. In 11.11.2004, the lawsuit at the Court of BiH was filed. And, look, the law was passed on 14 April 2006, and I won't talk about Terzic and Bukelevic and Hadzipashic's commission, which is not a court, which, the commission, has declared a private commission a judicial body, and has written such an immoral law. So, what happened? Before the adoption of this law, therefore, do not forget: the verification in this form is carried out, the BiH Constitutional Court has annulled through entity laws. The BiH Constitutional Court did not cancel and said equalise through entity laws, the BiH Constitutional Court did not annul and said equalise it not to be there for 30 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u757	Mrs. Amila, can we talk about the bill on amendments and additions to the law? We went deep into...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u758	I'm asking you next. No, no, I have no objections, I have no objections. I have, I'm just warning you, is this how when this law passes, because you said in these amendments that the court can only judge in exceptional cases and now the BiH Court, which did not want to judge, sent the whole case to the Court, and that the Court and that case takes it to a verification that we cannot exercise our rights to. Guys, this is a serious problem, this is a terrible problem. Here you have a deal between the executives, now, if this... legislative and judicial authorities are wrong for the citizens of this country. So, please, we're ready for any kind of compromise, so we're willing to accept the conditions, not a nine-year-old problem under guarantees, it's not a problem for us or interest, the problem is that we're going to prove our rights and get confirmation that we have the rights to those rights. Now, I ask you to help me, since this will not go safely in committees, help me to force this country's court to carry out the procedure, force the data to come and that we, within all possible legal solutions and institutions that exist in this country, come to verification, to our rights and go then to get bonds and go into payment. If we don't achieve this, over 60% of the savings go to Strasbourg, you know, but then we don't know what's gonna happen. I'll tell you that our association has about 12,000 individual lawsuits already in Strasbourg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u759	Thank you, Omersoftić. And one more thing, please, is there anyone here that we can be to the end of the House of Peoples. So, we heard Slobodan Nišić, we heard Mrs. Amila Omersoftić and I ask someone from western Herzegovina from Hrvat, here representing any savings society, is there any? Does anyone need more of the Hrvat here to speak – damaged savings – or accepts the argument they heard from the two previous speakers. We heard one from the RS and one from the Federation. There isn't. 40 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You can't. You heard, please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u763	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u764	Maybe it's half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u765	Come on, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u766	How much?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u767	15 minutes?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u768	The president therefore simultaneously asks the Srbin klub for a break of 15 minutes. 41 [[PAUZA]] Here, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u770	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u771	So tell me why!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u772	problem in the number of years and interest at this point. [[no microphone turned on]] I have a problem with the verification, I get it right, first! So, if the problem of verification is to try to make another gesture of goodwill. I suggested, I prepared two conclusions, so let's see if the presidents of the old foreign savings would be able to help solve this problem further. The first conclusion would be: The House of People asks the Council of Ministers to reconsider the amendment to the Law on Old Foreign Savings in the section relating to the deadline of verification of old foreign exchange savings, as it has already practically expired. We're back in a time that practically doesn't regulate, we're out of the law already. That's one conclusion, because the first deal was... that representatives of old foreign savings would call foreign savings on the verification. Nobody did that. It was said, but it wasn't done. And another conclusion with those credentials that are controversial, therefore, where the documentation is burned, where there is no evidence, that, I suggest: The House of Peoples proposes that the Parliamentary Assembly, meaning from both homes, form... Ad hoc commission tasked with intervening between business banks and verification agencies only in part of disputed verifications. Here, that's a suggestion, so we can discuss the conclusions now.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u773	We heard the suggestion. This is the position of all three clubs, all three representatives of clubs? Thank you very much. I'm opening the debate now. So, I'd like to hear, perhaps, from these two conclusions about the extension of the verification deadline and the general provision, therefore, of this law and of the disputed verifications. Here you go, Mr. Kasumović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u774	Thank you, Chairman. I'll ask you, I really appreciate your time. I saw 40 dots you have. In my first address, I've tried to tell the core, perhaps you don't understand me. I'm worried now... about these amendments to the law because it saves won't do it. And what if the MPs vote against 42 of these? Then you have a law where you have a return of 13 years, where you don't have, just a little bit to finish, so to clarify the situation, maybe you don't understand: now the applicable law says that your debt returns to 13 years. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u775	So please, I'm really begging you!
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u776	I'm really asking you, so I'm gonna have to say everything about what an impression I've gotten while I'm doing this; I have a feeling that some associations or presidents of these associations are saving nicely from this living, they'd keep this 100 years to last. I'm really saying this honestly, because I can't understand that it's someone now who represents the interests of keeping this law to come back to you in 13 years, and I, and the Council of Ministers is offering you nine years from now, up to nine years from now. I really don't understand it, I don't understand it unless you have some interest in it being a mess, that this takes as long as possible, that you get those membership fees as long as possible. I don't see any reason, because who's going to explain it to me - you're 13 years old now and you're asking to stay, and we're offering you better. You understand me. I don't understand it, but I will call you again, I will ask you all to adopt the law in the same text to go, to solve at least one problem of this country, at least one, he will be. These conclusions that Mrs. Majkić needs, they need, but now I just don't know if they're slowing down the law. No, no. They do, because I think there's been a lot of irregularities about the verification of it, and it just needs to be helped people and we're for it, but this commission didn't have my mandate anything to do with it. We made a commitment to hold a press conference and we'll probably call you tomorrow, when the law is passed, to hold it. It's, and... the other thing, to all the entity agencies that do the verification we've sent a memo asking to carry out those controls that you've been talking about. I pray once again, and the media, and they have saved all things; be sure, if thou wilt receive before thy money. So, the longer we stalled, and if after the deadline, you're going to have to take the court route, the longer it takes, the worse the variant. I'm inviting you by the end of this month to verify yourself. Those who won't, it's absolutely a right that anyone with their property has the right to dispose of what they want, Mr. Nišić, and so do you. So, you don't, but I'm calling as a responsible man, a finance man, I'm calling on citizens to be sure they're better than 100 times to carry out the verification, to get to bonds that will be very quickly charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u777	Thank you very much, Mr. Kasumović. So, I ask more MPs: we are having a debate on the two conclusions we have heard and I will conclude the debate and we will move on to a statement. Who wants a word about the two conclusions proposed by Mrs. Majkić? No one. I'm closing the debate. We will approach the statement on this law and then on the conclusions of Ms. Majkić. 43 I repeat: The House of Representatives passed this law with four amendments in the report of the relevant committee which you received with the invitation to the session, with the material. And our respective Constitutional Commission also accepted the same text of amendments that are incorporated into the text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. There were no new amendments. We've closed the debate and I'm asking you to plead. Who is "for" such a proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the settlement of liabilities based on the account of old foreign exchange savings? Does anyone have “against ”? One “against. ” 13 "for". So we accepted: 12 “for, ” I apologize, 12“ for, ” and one “against. ” I hereby conclude that we have adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law under point 9. And now we approach the vote on proposal two conclusions. One refers to the verification deadline to consider the Council of Ministers and to allow, in terms of changes and additions, parliamentary procedures and, at the same time, clear provisions on the handling of disputed verifications, hence for burnt, missing documentation of those... who can prove this otherwise, in which way the Council of Ministers,... i.e. the state institutions, the BiH state institutions will make sure that the business banks provide it from their documentation. It's about... these conclusions, with everything that's left... said Mrs. Majkić. So that's the position agreed... between the three club presidents. Who is “for ” such conclusions? Please make a statement. Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. ‘Contained’ one. 12 "for" and one "abstained". This concludes the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u778	Let me ask you something. Since we've adopted the conclusion, I don't think it would be a bad idea to appoint at the moment, in front of the House of Peoples, who are these people who are going to join the Ad hoc commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u779	Do you have a suggestion? So, you three club presidents or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u780	Well, it does, I think it makes sense because we're also members of the Finance and Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u781	Please, nice. Then it's Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u782	Majkić, Rajić and Rančić. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u783	And Mr. Rančić. So, can we,...so, accept this composition... of this commission. Who is “for ” this composition? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? One “abstained, ” 12“ for. ” With this, we've exhausted this agenda point. I thank the representatives of the associations for taking part in the debate and helping, therefore, a clearer picture and helping us to come to these two conclusions... which you have heard. Thank you very much. We're going to the 10th point, that's "Ad." Ten. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the BiH Council of Ministers Act, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH ___________?(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. Have a good trip. _________(?) Thank you so much for being like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u789	: Maybe this, Mr. Chairman, is the place and time to say that we have assessed from the Constitutional and Legal Committee that it would be important at least a little bit late... time to conduct a public debate. We have been in cooperation with colleagues from the House of Representatives and the Constitutional Commission and held a public debate that has been extremely useful because we have been able to hear and hear from those directly concerned by this law and, as we enter into the phase of the amendment, I think that this will also result in the adoption of certain repairs and improvements to the very provisions of the law. Here, just for information.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u790	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? This is a very interesting topic, a very, very interesting topic, and I don't think it will go without debate, so much so, it's so important for BiH that we have this law in relation to the overall events, the events for a mess that should be arranged, and everything that happens to us on sports grounds, in general, about sports, I think it deserves a serious debate... in our home. Here you go, Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u791	Well, you said yourself, if we didn't speak a word of such an important law, it wouldn't really be good. So, first of all, I think we should support the procedure for the bill to go in accordance with Article 121, which means by a reduced procedure. Secondly, I have talked to many people who look forward to a law like this finally being passed at the country level and, accordingly, set out rules and competences in the field of sports, not only at BiH level but also at the level of entities and Brcko District. We also know that this law is a prerequisite for BiH to be involved in many sports associations that are still awaiting our membership. So, the condition for membership in all international sports associations is that one country has legislation at country level. I don't think there's anyone at this point who could find any principle that would challenge non-compliance, today at this session, the principles of the law, and in accordance with that, I suggest we support this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u792	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? So principles are not controversial. In our first reading, we discuss the principles on which this law is based. If no one wants a word, please, we'll open up a wider discussion in another reading. I'm putting on a plea. I'm closing the debate and I'm putting this law on the line in my first reading. Who is “for ” this law? This law was unanimously adopted in the first reading. 47 Second reading will open. So this law is in regular, therefore, procedure. We'll open it after we... enter the amendment phase. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me. Does the minister have needs, does he, does he have a minister, does the minister need to go out for a pay phone? Here you go, no matter what we already accepted the bill and said it was...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u794	Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, I just need to say so much that this law is being sent to the emergency procedure because we expect to adopt this law by the end of this year for reasons of forming an Anti-doping Control Agency which is a condition for BiH athletes to go out in Europe in 2008. And that's the key reason why we've been looking for the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives has accepted it, but here I haven't heard if it's an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u795	So here it is, here the procedural thing is set up like this: that the last session established the procedure for the shortened procedure, not in a hurry without amendments, but in a shortened procedure. So that's where all the deadlines get laid and... we'll have that law, but we'll consider it, so, after we've had the second reading, we'll have the amendments in front of us. So, I don't think that's gonna take long, it's, it's a business-based procedure at the last session. We're going to point 12, that's ad. 12. Proposal for a law on the protection of integrated car schedule plans, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH You've got the bill. The report is from the committee responsible – the Commission has accepted the principles of this law and at the same time information that the House of Representatives also accepted this in the first reading. We have this discussion. So in our first reading, we are discussing the principles on which this law is based. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? 48 I agree that we have unanimously accepted this law under point 12 in our first reading. Point 13 is: Ad. 13. Proposal for a framework law on pre-school education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u798	:... This law was like a measuring commission. [[no microphone turned on]] We discussed it, we had Mr. Slobodan Šaraba and my amendment. After the debate, at the Committee we adopted an amendment which in Article 18, which you received in the Report from our committee, in paragraph (2) of the words: canton, district, municipalities and cities is changing and improving in terms of a more precise statement that.... County in the Federation, Brcko District... municipalities and cities. And so nothing is fundamentally changed. It's simply listed according to the powers they have. In Article 43, point (g) of that article, it refers, in the whole article, to the subsidisation and work of preschool institutions – the benefits set for children. We didn't think that wintering and summering were possible and that the law was precise because, I'm afraid, someone was going to get hold of that provision of the law so that someone had to organize winter and summer. We know the situation on the ground as it is. Unfortunately, it is very bad, kindergartens are at the border of business, they are exclusively in the jurisdiction of private entrepreneurship, there are no relevant factors to deal with this problem, and therefore we thought that part was excluded from the founder's obligations. In amandman III., the European Food Safety Authority (‘the Authority’) concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, is referred to in Article 44(h) where co-financing is suggested by the social protection body, for the stay of children in preschool institutions where it is said that children of students, we thought that a man could also study very zealously in the 40th year, so it would be good to limit it to be a regular student. So, if a regular student has children, it's for him to apply that subsidy. That's, that's all that's left as it's written. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u799	You're very detailed. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u800	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u801	You've been very detailed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u802	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u803	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u804	We're going to go for an agreement, because they've already been accepted, right, we're going to form a committee of conformity. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? Does anyone have “against ”? "Contained"? One “against, ” 12“ for. ” I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. Please, I suggest we have a discussion in another reading. So, there were no new amendments, except for those adopted at the Committee, but I'm opening a debate and asking who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this law up for adoption in the second reading. Who's "for"? Who Is “against ”? "Contained"? 12 “for ” and one“ against. ” So we have now passed this law in a different text than the House of Representatives. He's going on a date and we're going to form a three-person commission from each club, one person at a time. Here, let's go right now. The name of the Hrvat klub will be Ivo Miro Jović. I'm asking the Bošnjak klub to tell us who's on board. Professor Neimarlija. Srbin Club suggests? Nice to Ljubičić you, as far as I know. So we got this commission: Professor Hilmo Neimarlija, Ivo Miro Jović and Drago Ljubičić. Please make a statement. Who is "for" such a composition of the Committee of Consensation? Does anyone have “against ”? Unanimity; one is “abstained, ” I apologize. The opposition is always, therefore, different watching, and it doesn't have to be, that's not the rule. You can support something sometime. 50 We move to point 14. We can agree to work until 2:30, then we can have lunch, and we can make arrangements by 3:00, and then we can have lunch, but if it goes smoothly, maybe we'll go until we're hungry. Okay? Point 14. is: Ad. 14. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education, First Reading (Application of the Old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The House of Representatives passed this law with seven amendments. You've got the bill. You have received a report from the Commission and you have seen that an amendment has been adopted in the competent committee, please, and one conclusion. Mr. Jović, if you need anything. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u806	Thank you very much. I will try to be very brief, because here you have everything in front of you, only perhaps that Mr. Envoy Slobodan Šaraba and Rudo Vidović have invested repairs and in Article 12(b) behind the words of the Agency, says delete. In fact, it should only be said that these are the powers of the Director of the Agency because it is obliged to implement the Agency’s decisions, but also other competent authorities and bodies. We have ruled that not only can the agency participate in this part of it, such an important segment of life, but it is required to implement but normally from the education system, the system according to the law as it is. We adopted one conclusion in which there was only one place within the law: Interentity Agency. The truth is, it also applies to something that's on the ground, something that lives right now. Why is it called that, it's a little strange, but we've adopted that it's called the Standards and Assessment Agency in Education for the Federation and Republika Srpska. So, originally to be said, not just an inter-entity agency, but a Federation and Republika Srpska agency. That was the conclusion. So, I urge that when this report is adopted, it be an integral part of this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u807	So here we have seen this conclusion. It's hard for me to say, but this conclusion itself is broader, in fact, required previous amendment action, repair by amendment of these things. I'm asking you to explain it a little bit. Then why the conclusion if he's adopted like that? Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u808	: We had Mr. Rude Vidović's amendment to this part. Since it is, therefore, true in the spirit of the law rather than inter-entity, we felt that it is not good to stand inter-entityally but to stand precisely precisely on the Federation and Republika Srpska. That's why we didn't go to the amendment, adopt some amendment for it. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u809	We heard the report, I'm getting rid of the debate. I don't think there's any here... when you look at the essence of this conclusion and what it's explained, you're definitely going to get this law to agree, since seven amendments have been adopted in the House of Representatives and one here and it will... iron out on the Joint Committee on Consensus that we don't waste time, if you agree. I suggest we accept, therefore, to declare this law in the first reading with the report we received from the Constitutional Legal Commission. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? One "against", 12 "for". We passed this law in our first reading. In the meantime, we haven't had an amendment, and I suggest we do a second reading and open a debate. He's sick. I'm closing the debate, I'm sorry. Professor Neimarlija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u810	In short, only in terms of a small addition to the Commission's presentation. We opted for a conclusion, because we thought we were actually correcting a malfunction that was made at work. Because the organ, it wasn't an organ this inter-entityal and we just returned the full title, or full name. For that reason it's actually... instead of the amendment conclusion, because it's not... We've returned the full name. But it's going to be the subject of alignment, so this...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u811	Thank you very much, Professor Neimarlija. I thought we absorbed this thing. Now we're getting a little clearer. Thank you very much. ... We understand each other, nothing indisputable. So, is there anything unclear here? There isn't? Look, everybody! Let's move on, she'll definitely go for a match. Thank you very much. So I'm still asking who wants a word in the second reading? I'm closing the discussion in the second reading. I'm putting this law on the line in the second reading. Who's "for"? Who Is “against ”? The opposition is "against" and 12 "for". We've got this law in second reading in different texts. We have received this law in various texts of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, and we would still have to appoint a committee for reconciliation, where this problem will also be resolved, Professor Neimarlija. On behalf of the Hrvat klub, we agreed to make it Mr Ivo Miro Jović again. The Bošnjak Club proposes to Professor Hilmo Neimarlija and Drago Ljubičić of the Club of Serbs. 52 Thus, we have also received a proposal from this committee. I'd like to make a statement about the composition of this committee. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? I also find that Mr. Šaraba has accepted that we have all 12 votes, 13 votes "for". We're going to point 15, that's ad. 15. Proposal for a Law on Radio and Nuclear Safety of Bosnia and Herzegovina, first reading (application of the old Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers The House of Representatives passed this law in both the first and second readings, with eight amendments. We have received a report from the Commission and we see that an amendment has been adopted on the committee responsible. And I suggest we discuss the principles of this law in the first reading. And I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, no dialogueal form, just to bring an end faster. Excuse me, Professor Neimarlija. So, do you want to talk about this law? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this law on the line in the first reading. Who's "for"? "For" all unanimously. I suggest we have a discussion in the second reading. There hasn't been any new amendments. I'm opening a debate in my second reading on this bill. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting this legal proposal to a statement in the second reading. Who's "for"? Unanimity. I agree that we unanimously adopted this law in the second reading. As we got the texts again different... around one home and another, here we have one amendment, there we have eight. So we have to appoint a committee. The Hrvat club predicted Mr. Ruda Vidović here, that's his catch. I'm asking the Bošnjak klub to come forward. Mr. Adem Ibrahimpašić. I am putting forward a statement of the proposal: Adem Ibrahimpašić, Rudo Vidović and Zoran Koprivica. Who's "for"? I agree that we have unanimously accepted the Committee for the Consent of the Texts of this Law. Point 16 is: 53 Ad. 16. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Administrative Procedure, first reading (application of the new Rules of Procedure) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u819	You have received a report from the committee in charge who has been very zealously dealing with this issue and entered deep into the analysis of the implementation of the budget for 2006. You have seen that the report is divided into three groups, that practically one group of BiH institutions that has an execution of between 90% and 100%, another group that has an execution of between 90% and 80% and the third group that has the worst execution of 32% and 73%. Since the worst execution in this third group is, therefore, 32% to 73%, the Finance and Budget Commission has called for its 7th session of all 19 institutions that have had such a bad implementation of the budget and you are listed here exactly as the institutions are concerned and how much their budget is implemented. I wouldn't read if I didn't stick around but you've got a checkup and exactly what the percentage of the execution is. What did the Commission find on the way? First, that most of the budget users' business activities were not consistent with the planned spending. And secondly, that most institutions are making unreal budget planning because the creation of unused funds, amounting to 44 million, so 44 million and 600,000, could have been used much more effectively for other purposes. And 44 million and 600,000 is the amount left of these three groups, when you see how much is left of the unrealised budget. What kind of employment dynamic was in BiH institutions, it can be seen by more than 1,000 workers being less employed than was designed. A good part of them says -- it's because of the bad law -- so we happen to process for the reception of workers from six months to a year, and we know that it is often so. Another reason is that institutions have increased staff planning to achieve higher funds that will later be used for other purposes. So it is not good for one country when it is said that more than 40 institutions have not reached the planned budget. What's our plan? Does this mean that the 40 institutions of this country did not perform according to the Constitution and the legally established role? Secondly, what is the institution's relationship to public money? It is seen that only 26 out of 58 budget users remained within the borders of the approved budget for 2006, but imagine, that is a total of 45 million from the budget, which was 666 million. On the basis of the Council of Ministers' decisions, and beyond the parliamentary assembly's consent, I would like to underline that BiH is one of the few countries that does not know the term of rebalancing, that the rebalancing is not the parliamentary assembly in this country, but is doing so by the Council of Ministers and that it is legally the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly which says it should be competent to give consent to the budget, means spending of public money, it does so, but does not give consent to how it will really be spent. So each of the budget beneficiaries who break the budget, he will get, by asking the Council of Ministers, will be covered by the Council of Ministers' decision and will receive as much money as he has broken through and there is no responsibility for public money in that part. 31 institutions have also breached the budget approved by the Parliamentary Assembly for 30 million. It is unusual that these 56 institutions that have received additional funds, imagine, have neither fulfilled the Budget in the value part for which they are granted. So he wonders why they got extra funding, if they couldn't spend what they got. Secondly, direct transfers from the Treasury's Single Account are 2.5 times more than planned and from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's approved funds. Total reservation bigger by 3.64 times. So we don't have a rebalancing term. We have the possibility to allocate funds between budget users, i.e. the funds intended to receive the salaries of newly admitted workers is used for salaries or other expenditures. In a constellation like Budget for 2006, he's better than he was... In 2005, I remember him, he was worse, but that's not enough, but he's not good enough. The Finance and Budget Commission adopted the 2006 Budget Report and proposed that the House adopt it, but with several very significant conclusions that could change the situation in the 2007 budget area that will come quickly to us. The first conclusion was to order the finance ministry and the vault to take the necessary measures to improve the planning process, control the implementation of the budget. So this is something that the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Treasury as a competent ministry, must assume its commitment and give more attention to the process of planning and harmonising with budget users. Another important conclusion is to order the Council of Ministers to submit, within 30 days of the adoption of this conclusion, a proposal to amend and supplement the legislative rules to be regulated: 1. That budget balance is implemented through rebalancing in a manner and by a budget-making process. There is no change without the consent of the Parliamentary Assembly. 2. That the Ministry of Finance and Treasury is obliged to report to the Parliamentary Assembly half-yearly on the decisions taken to restructure expenditure within the total amount of the approved budget for each budget beneficiary. 3. That the BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to report to the BiH Parlamentary Assembly on the use of the budget reserve three months ago. And finally final conclusion: 4. The Finance and Budget Commission of the People's House is tasked with holding a public hearing on the work of the BiH State Service Agency and informing the BiH Parliamentary Assembly about this because of the failure of the employment plan in BiH institutions. I think this public debate will show where the employment problems are, what the laws need to change and, in the end, to hear measurement opinions as they go on on the subject. Well, if it's necessary, I'll get involved later. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u820	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. I think this is a good introduction for a good debate, if that's what we want about this agenda point. Who wants another word? We heard the interpretation of Mrs. Majkić's report to the relevant committee. I'm closing the argument if no one wants a word. I suggest we make a statement on the report, and afterwards on the proposal these three conclusions we've heard. Who is "for" to accept this report? I realize we did it unanimously. I put on a statement and these three conclusions we heard from Mrs. Majkić which you have precisely written in the report's conclusion. Who's "for"? I also find that we have unanimously accepted the conclusions of the relevant committee, which are very interesting and I am very interested in how the Council of Ministers will react to these conclusions. We're going to point 22, that's "Ad." 22. Review of the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office 2006 So, the institutions indicated, that I don't read them all now, I read them when we were establishing the agenda, from a) to y), all these statements you got and you got the report of the relevant committee. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. It's Mrs. Majkić again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u822	The Commission for Finance and Budgets is on this issue which has not so far found an appropriate position otherwise of the Parliamentary Assembly... because the current audit reports have mostly been adopted without any request of the institutions, when it comes to this Parliament, therefore in very poor communication between the competent institutions that have received worse grades according to the audit reports. And they, mostly it was about acceptance because, for God's sakes, the review found it the way it did, what could be added! Since it is the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly and the supervision of the spending of public money, it is also the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly to make certain efforts in that segment and show the desire that this job can and can be done by business and government. You received here: two meetings of the Finance and Budget Commission... a number of reports were considered and these reports are listed to you here which institutions are and what estimates are there. Now I want, first of all, to think... that it's the first time you've done it anyway, to praise a few institutions that have received quite positively, means no distraction, no warning of any kind. So, I publicly suggest that the House of Peoples commend the Agency for State Service 58 BiH, the Central Bank of BiH in a section of the account relating to external debt, the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity (DERK), the Commission for Property Requests of Displaced Persons and Refugees and the Committee of the State Department for Appeals of BiH for....... in their work, to highlight transparency and compliance with applicable legal regulations and consciously available to the budgetary resources of these institutions. So we should talk about these who are good, as well as about those who always engage our attention more. The second group of institutions are institutions that received a positive opinion with a distraction, and these are institutions: the Agency for Labour and Employment, the Public Procurement Agency, the Directorate for European Integration. So all the way to number 13, that is, to number 19. What is the basic observation of the audit reports? For the 2006 audit report, auditors made 233 recommendations. These recommendations mainly moved in the direction that an efficient internal control and control system was not put in place, that there were no rules, procedures under which this area was regulated, that the list of resources and obligations was not fully implemented, that no budget planning and monitoring and annual rebalancing were improved, that supplies of goods and services were not in line with the Public Procurement Act, that... commission fees were not in line with the decision of the Council of Ministers, that they were too much travel costs, use of official vehicles for no good reason, especially in the BiH Presidency, that the flexibility in managing travel orders and poor conditions in the DKP network. For years, several institutions have failed to follow the recommendations of the revision. These are the BiH Presidency, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Ombudsman's institution for human rights, SIPA and FIPA. Therefore, the same comments and recommendations of the revision are repeated almost as a rule. The Commission means in this group of reports, so five institutions were positive, 14 institutions had a positive opinion with a distraction, one institution had a positive opinion with an emphasis on the case and five institutions with a reserve, from what has been processed so far. Every institution has said the reasons why it is in such a position, why it has received a bad audit report and what it intends to do. And with the presidents of the Audit Office, it is agreed that now, in the coming period, when the review cases are to be followed for 2007, the first thing will be to watch what has been done and whether the decision to fix something has been made, to change, to make efforts to correct the situation in a particular institution, is that done. And then, the rest of the sequence. Therefore, the previous audit will always begin with the conclusion of the Finance and Budget Commission, i.e. I hope this home too, whether what was required of that institution has been fulfilled. And this report, like this one I was just talking about, means accepted, has been unanimously accepted – the Office's review report, but this time we have the conclusions. So: 1. to commend these five institutions, 2. to require the Council of Ministers to immediately access the work of the CIPS Project Implementation Directorate, i.e. to address the issue of the CIPS Implementation Directorate, which is still working on the basis of the Council of Ministers' Decision, rather than by law, 3. to require the Council of Ministers to decide within 30 days of the date of receipt of this conclusion with the donors of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH to resolve the issue of 59 interpretations of contract provisions that exclude their donations from the Office's competence for the revision of BiH institutions and of the notice of this House. We really couldn't get past that part of the donor's funds was excluded from the possibility that our Office for Audit under the Law on the Audit of this country would make an insight into that part. We, in order not to defuse ourselves, or to not disrupt if the donor requires it to be an exclusively independent audit institution, to see the reasons and to ask the Council of Ministers why our audit institution cannot actually audit all institutions and also the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, was just about donations. And, finally, four. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly draws attention to the Council of Ministers that it is obliged to pay attention to the provisions of Article 11(2) of the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions when closing contracts with donors and lenders, which means that they all fall under the right to review. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u823	Thank you, Mrs. Dušanka, for this exhaustive report. I'm opening a debate. The debate on this committee lasted hours, six hours. It's not the devil nobody wants to take a word for it now. Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u824	So here, reading the reports individually, and in particular the report on the review of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, which is an institution that appoints judges and prosecutors in BiH, I found it incomprehensible that the donor funds allocated to the High Court and Prosecutor's Board could not be controlled by the Audit Office. I did a little consulting with our people at the Secretariat in the Parliamentary Assembly, wondering if their donations were being controlled. And then I was told that all the donations that this congregation receives are subject to control. I don't even know how the audit got along with it... not to control those donor funds. So someone told them from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council: you can't do that and they simply accepted not to. Another thing I want to say here is that we as citizens in the past few years have had the opportunity to hear from the audit reports, from their press conferences: that certain illegalities have been discovered in state institutions, that they have delivered their reports to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and we have no further information on this. So, whether these controls... are indisputable that certain illegalities have been found in the spending of public funds, that these reports have been submitted to the BiH Prosecutor's Office without any of the responsible persons being prosecuted for actions that, as the auditors presented, were in fact obvious illegalities. I know that the public followed these press conferences very closely, especially when it comes to the use of public funds in the BiH presidency, but there was no response. I am interested, and here are representatives of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office, I want them to tell me whether they received any feedback from the state prosecutor, means whether there have been 60 checks and whether certain persons responsible in BiH institutions, according to their reports, have acted against the law and that they are... hearing their answers to these allegations that they have pointed out, means that they were not allowed to exercise insight into donor funds and their intended use and... how they have agreed, means that they do not control... the use of these donor funds. And, therefore, whether we as Parliament, as the House of Peoples, should accept because some official or person who manages these High Court and Prosecutorial Councils, that the argument that donors do not allow to make an insight into these funds, whether we should accept it, when every money in this country is subject to control; means that public spending is subject to control, so why would one state institution have to spend the donor funds transparently, and another would, apparently, because donors do not allow it, hide those funds from the eyes of the Office for Audition, which I think no donor, when the funds to a particular institution, give these funds with the intention of concealing by that institution, but rather is ready for the public of this country to see what these funds are used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u825	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u826	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I think we're kind of called, we're all members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, and not six but eight and a half hours we've been breaking these two reports. We've confessed there all the users calculate to explain to us the reasons for such planning, such consumption and, therefore, even though two of these points are already separated, they're functionally linked to the causes of such a condition that they can't separate themselves from each other. It's my impression that we're spinning round here. Just as we can write countless conclusions to the Council of Ministers, and we do not get any adequate answers and their responsible moves in this regard, so it seems to me that the whole process and the revision and monitoring of the budget is reduced to our plights and conclusions that mean nothing to anyone. The conclusion should end with an audit report in the appropriate place and should have the consequences, if it is a violation of the law, if it is a matter of purpose, abuse, etc. I used to say that, so the auditors told me, "That time is past." I've spent my whole life in contact with accounting financials, I know what the social accounting inspector used to mean. He was Bog on earth on these matters. Today is our review, I mean, don't be offended by the people who do this job, they're a good means of scaring those who are naive. Those who are not naive are not afraid of them or their reports. If that's the case, here's the proof here. But I'm worried about something else. If the BiH Prosecutor's Office does not respond to such reports, which cannot be explained, and let alone justified, I am interested in how Parliament, or the Council of Ministers in creating the allocation of funds, are all budgetary users, that there are no sanctions for those who violate the law on the findings of the audit and those who do not implement the budget, and thus, because of the inability to rebalancing, deny 61 of these countries that some other areas are covered, financed, to resolve some of their vital issues. So, what I'm saying is that the purpose of all these discussions is only if we change the legal rules in a way that they apply. Laws that don't apply don't serve anyone. And it seems to me that we have too many laws in this country, whatever it is, in which no one feels obliged to enforce the laws. That's why it seems pointless for us, even after ten hours of two sessions, to talk about these issues again. I would like to hear feedback after half a year or eight months, which from what we have written has been carried out in both the Council of Ministers and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u827	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. But it's good to hear that for hours, sometimes five, sometimes six, sometimes here and eight hours of debate in certain committees, so the commissions of the relevant, permanent bodies of the House of Nations, because sometimes we, when the law is passed here in seven minutes, then someone tells you how they get the laws. No, they don't stop and they prepare very thoroughly and debate the water on the committees in charge. It is not rare for certain legislative projects to be repeated several times on certain committees for several hours until they reach this home. And that's why it looks like an easy regulation. So here we are now. One question is referred practically to the auditors or, as Mr Rajić put it, very elegantly, to fearing entities. Perhaps the auditors would like to answer this last question of MP Čolo, about these donations and about possibly some untouchable entities that you control... and how you get that data. Are there any such examples? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u828	Thank you, esteemed chairman, vice president, esteemed delegates. As for the question of the lady regarding the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, we, therefore, sought by all means to come into possession of documents relating to the donor funds. However, there we received an answer that they have a contract with donors by which they specified that the audit of these donor funds is done by some independent house selected by donors themselves. Then we further explored the problem and tried because we were under the Audit Law, which decidently states: that all the funds of the donor that have been allocated to BiH are subject to review by the Audit Office. However, we have received some interpretations that the international agreement is above BiH law, etc. and we had nothing but to refer... a request or a report to the Parliamentary Assembly, calling on the standards of international audits, in which it is said: unless we are able to review the funds, then we should address the Parliament that needs to consider it and see what further. So, in my opinion, you need to make a request... The High Court and Prosecutor's Council will allow these funds to be reviewed. I think that would be good for them, too. This is what they leave, in my opinion, doubt, is it! There has already been speculation in the media about this – whether it is now being financed by the Council, etc., you can't see these funds here. It's about that. 62 As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, I must say that all reports have been delivered to the D.A. by.... Parliamentary parliaments and they on several occasions asked the Office for the Review of Additional Documents, the papers concerning some of the investigations they conducted. We delivered it all neatly. Now, I don't know... if they're running, whether they're some charges in preparation or something. I really don't know, we can't do that... or we can know that. Here, that's mostly, answer those questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u829	Thank you very much, Mr. Kulina. The word was requested by Dr Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u830	First of all, I think it's extremely useful for this country that there is this audit office, and I think it's a new practice, which we're probably going to get used to for a good number of years. But it is evident that there are positive effects because, regardless of the slowdown, however, the number of negative opinion reports is getting smaller and smaller, yet the number of reports is growing, there are still reserves, there are warnings, but all together it is an extremely positive trend and direction that is present. My experience, and I was the subject of review when I led the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was, firstly, that this revision has one practice that is extremely positive to carry out a previous audit before the end of the year and in good spirit warn the user of what she found as a problem before the end of the year, that, if he takes it seriously, he has time to correct, change the practice and react seriously to the warning. I think it's one thing that's from the point of view of the practical work of this revision positive and, as far as I know, in some other audits, it's not. That's not how it's done elsewhere. It's waiting for everything to pass, and then it's being second-guessed. Here... yet this revision comes in one speedy, let's say, not so detailed but still an analysis that gives, which can give a general view, and the user has time to fix. It's not like the audit is waiting for him, but I'm just waiting for you to make a mistake. So it's not in that context, at least that's how my experience was. What I think is a little bit of an exaggeration about our audit is going out, too much going out of the accounting thinking zone and going into trying, I'd say, let's say, sometimes professionally doing it in certain ministries. There are examples that the retail audit, although people aren't professional there, assessed what the DKP should look like and what it should be doing, let's say, diplomatic activities. I understand that this aspect of the revision exists, it can objectively exist, but I think that at this stage we need to concentrate our greatest effort on the financial reports and procedures of that kind, because that's what has the most difficult repercusion and once we introduce it, then we can get into the process, let's say, essential assessments. I think it is a fundamental assessment of how individual ministries work more on Parliament than perhaps on the audit itself. Although my experience with that part wasn't bad, it wasn't negative, but sometimes it was a little, come on, I'd say, naive observation of operational activities. But what the audit reports raise is the question, especially when we talk about ministries – who is responsible? And there's a problem with the law now, where the Council of Ministers Act says the minister is responsible for the ministry's work, and it seems to me, the Ministry's Law says 63 that the secretary as top state official -- secretary of the ministry -- is responsible for the financial and material and staff management of the ministry. I think that there is our obligation to help both audits and users to once and for all arrange these laws and ministers as political figures dealing with laws, creating general environments, not procurements, not tendering, not signing contracts, because they neither know it, nor can, nor are qualified for it. In principle, it should be done by the head of state officials, and the Ministry Act has defined it in a way. But these two laws are in conflict, and then very often these questions that Mrs. Čolo was talking about are repeated. Who's responsible in the end then? In this version, on the one hand, the minister; on the other hand, the secretary, and I think that both the audits both for us and for those who do this – to work in detail on budget preparation should be clearly defined! It's my opinion that it's supposed to be that it's not exactly... The Council of Ministers is now full, but the Ministry of Justice should agree these two laws, and this is precisely about the audit reports – the Law on the Council of Ministers and the Law on Ministrys and who are the persons responsible for material and financial operations in the ministries. I think it's only logical in the new system to be a secretary. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u831	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanovich. Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u832	I'm sorry, I have an obligation to say. The audit office finishes its work and, in that hyperproduction report, it awaits a natural partner, it is Parliament, what to do. Parliament has not resolved its question and its place in this. Parliament has so far not, apart from the adoption of audit reports by the crack-up of hands, it has not asked for the responsibility of certain institutions for such behaviour. Well, please, I've written here five-six institutions: the Presidency, the Ministry of Finance, civil affairs, the Ombudsman institution, the SIPA and FIPA who... receive in a row the same recommendations that do not execute Parlmannet and forget it until the next report. Therefore, Parliament's commitment to this control function does not end by raising your hand. We will be looking as a competent commission – it may not be a bad thing and if Dom asked the D.A. to meet with the tužilaštvo - to see how in cases where criminal activities were reported not to be responsible. And in the end, I'm the only one, why send all the reports to the D.A.'s office? According to the D.A.'s office, those with the reserve should be sent. Why should other reports be sent? The D.A. doesn't need to be buried... all the audit reports. We're not doing an impact review. And until we do an impact review, we won't have much data yet, because we have examples that people are individuals who run BiH institutions: they have good reports of revisan, and that there's a lot going on inside, that it's not adequate and it's not transparent... behaviour with public money. So this is a question that the Parliamentary Assembly has not yet found its position, either home or other. Therefore, 64 criminal offences in certain audit reports are not sanctioned, we do not have information from the prosecution for any which has been processed, because the audit report was negative, i.e. with the reserve. The audit does its job the moment they hand it over to us. Once we adopt it, it's our property and our responsibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u833	Thank you very much. We've heard the extra reflections of Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Can we close the debate? I'm closing the debate. First, we'll get to the bottom of the proposed report. I suggest we do it in the package, so we don't go report-by-report, but suddenly it's a statement of acceptance or non-acceptance of the report. First I'm going to ask who's in favour of accepting the BiH Institutions Audit Office Report. Who's "for"? I agree that we unanimously accepted and adopted the Report of all those institutions, so the Office for Auditing Institutions from a) to y. Now, I would ask you to state the conclusions we heard from Mrs. Majkić, so from 1st to 4th in the report of the relevant committee. Who is "for" this conclusion proposal? I also find that we have unanimously accepted the conclusions with the report of the relevant committee. We're going to point 23, that's "Ad." 23. Information of the Board of Appeals on the activities undertaken with the aim of overcoming the problem in the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals by applying the applicable rules, with the proposal for a conclusion You received a report from the Commission, i.e. the Commission, which proposed certain conclusions. The House of Representatives took note of this information. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u835	The two institutions most responsible for the functioning of the country's public procurement system are the Public Procurement Agency and the Office to discuss complaints about the activities undertaken. These two institutions are responsible because the situation today is in public procurement as it is. 65 We wanted to get a good insight into what was actually going on in these relations as a commission. We had a chance to have talks with both the Public Procurement Agency and the Board of Appeals. And we're here in the report that we gave, some of which is lower, but it seems to us that the Council of Ministers who is responsible for this sector would function well, and as important as it is, I just want to remind you that in last year, so in 2006, BiH spent more than 1 billion and 200 million marks at different levels for public procurement. I don't need to tell you what it means if there's no order in this segment of society. I often wondered if and what reason there was for someone to maintain that a young institution such as the Office for the Review of Appeals, which was founded only at the beginning of the second quarter of 2006, is still not fully functioning until today. I said here that since two Bošnjak are employed in the office, another representative of the Serbian and one representative of the Croatian people is missing, that the Council of Ministers has not yet brought the procedure to an end and therefore we have a minimum quorum without; therefore, these people cannot leave even on vacation, they cannot work because the process of appointing a complete office to consider complaints has not been completed. Let's not talk about what it means when an institution like this doesn't work and doesn't consider complaints about public procurement. We haven't talked today, we're going to have a chance to talk about the very law on public procurement that we've been working with strangers, so often in that inconsistency we've been copying English texts, so now we have this law that we don't understand ourselves and it's a very problem for us to understand certain members of this country and I mean, I said, there's no man in this country who doesn't have any objections regarding that segment. Now imagine in such a confusing law you have two unspoken institutions in charge of its implementation. The Parliamentary Assembly must do something in that part. The situation in these two important institutions must change, and the Commission has proposed a part of the conclusions it thinks will be able to change the situation, provided that we, as representatives of the legislative authority, have enough authority to listen to the executive authority, and we see in the current course of the session that we cannot exactly boast how we respond to our demands and act according to our conclusions. So what the Commission considered necessary for the work to provide for the work of this institution: 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers to take the necessary measures under its legal jurisdiction to speed up the process of appointing two other members in the Office to discuss complaints, so representatives of the Serbian and Croatian people. 2. It is up to the Council of Ministers to brief the House of Nations as soon as possible on what has been done on item 3 of the 6th session House's conclusion, held on 29.6., and this is related to the complete problem in this segment. It is up to the Council of Ministers to speed up the process of granting consent to the Internal Organisation of the Office for Appeals. So, in the Council of Ministers, whoever could have made a mistake made a case or a law or agency or an office to consider complaints. So we as the Commission could do this much. The rest will need the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u836	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mrs. Čolo. 66
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u837	So I have one objection to these conclusions proposed by the Commission, and I will state the reasons why I am making that observation. In conclusion, I think under point 3, which refers to giving consent to the text of the Internal Organisation Regulation of the Office for the Review of Appeals by the Council of Ministers. Whoever was reading this text could see that the Council of Ministers was considering a regulation on the internal organisation of the Board of Appeals and that it had given its consent to that Regulation and that it had said to the Office of Appeal: the Council of Ministers decided to act in accordance with the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. The Board of Ministers did not like to have the chair of the Board of Ministers' Board of Appeals address them, and therefore they are now asking this Parliament to draw a conclusion that the Council of Ministers will re-examine their rules and give its consent again to the text of that Regulation. Therefore, I feel that this conclusion should not be supported by the House. Undisputed from this material that there are problems in the human resources training of this Office to consider complaints and all those who have contact with our economic operators, especially those who invest a lot, know that a lot of their complaints stand in this office. Here, a representative of that office says they're not humanised and I understand that. And it is indeed the Council of Ministers' duty for the staff to fill this office. However, I cannot accept their view that, therefore, the Council of Ministers should not appoint the chairman's office to consider complaints, but they should do so among themselves. They, in my opinion, have been slightly identified with the BiH courts by which judges themselves choose their chairman. I think this is a state institution and there is no reason not to accept the opinion of the BiH Ministry of Justice, who said in his opinion that the Council of Ministers should appoint the chairman and that that is how it should stand in their internal organisation regulation. And I think that consent has been given by the Ministry and that the Office for the Review of Appeals cannot in any way dispute and they should continue to work on resolving complaints they have very much, not to dispute with the Council of Ministers about who will elect the chairman of this institution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u838	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u839	A man can't propose, no matter how old he is to master it at one point. It takes many hours of reading to get into this essence. Which means giving support to the decision on condition. It's not a decision made as soon as it's conditioned. Secondly, members of this institution are elected by Parliament. It is not logical for those elected by Parliament to post the chairman to be appointed by the Council of Ministers. There are procedural things where mistakes have been made, Mrs. Čolo. It's not that, it's not this man, he seemed too ambitious to me, so I thought he was in it, and then he had to dive into all of that and see where it came from, what was going on. Someone from the Department of Justice, for his known reasons, tightens the case. After I heard that man was working, maybe he resented someone at the Justice Department. I don't want to think about it. A person, meaning a person, or 67 of the officials elected by Parliament, is known to be appointed chairman of them, we cannot now let it go, step down. I'd like you to just say a few words about it. These are terrible problems, not all of them. I've tried something to sublime in such a difficult matter, that this chairman of those institutions says a few words himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u840	Thank you very much. We'll hear the MPs first. Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u841	Here, Mr. Chairman, whether or not we wanted to, we must continue in the tone that I, unfortunately, wish I hadn't had to open up to such a view of this reality. So this is a question that clearly shows and that, I will repeat a few thoughts that I have said several times in the Committee: that we are sick in BiH as a whole. So, honor with exceptions, but I'm saying in general that we suffer from the need to freshen our own hands and to suffer from the fact that we prescribe laws, make vague excuses,... leave room for confusion and abuse and that we will command life to keep it in line while we sort it out. The best example for this is the Agency for State Services, the Public Procurement Agency and the Office for Appeals in the Processes run by the Public Procurement Agency. All three of those agencies are absolutely tight throats that are holding life in this country. And to no one in this country, starting from us to the Council of Ministers and to the other bodies of the Presidency, it doesn't occur to me to create a flow in that system. How are we gonna talk about efficiency, about legality, if... the law itself carries confusion? You here have decided that the Office of Audit, in fact the Office of Appeals is a specific administrative organisation that solves complaints in the administrative procedure. So then we had a cartoon example that the director gave us: in cases where they participate in foreign offers, we could solve this matter in a year and a half, because someone had overlooked that pushing that institution into the field of administrative resolution would have its limits that one should either remove or change nature, change its work content. Secondly, it is said here that the law found that the Office of Appeals has so many members and that they fill in according to the sublaw. Who brought and arranged, do we know, that this sublegal act is here through which this office should be filled, by the will of its director and employee, but by the will of the one who has been authorized by the law to do so? I'm not sure that in my mind, considering this issue at the Committee on Budgets and Finance, we had all the information, especially this information that the Council of Ministers gave under certain conditions consent to the Internal Organization Regulation, that it had never been implemented. The real question is: Why does the Council of Ministers not ensure the implementation of its conclusions? Here, if it does not carry out the conclusions that Parliament gives him, or cannot, not to be rude, or not to be able to execute, why it does not ensure that it implements its conclusions towards the institutions that it is absolutely superior to, and is also funding. 68 So, I am talking about that we must now, in connection with this matter, with one of these points that follows the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, approach it once without the fact that we need to compromise everything, compromise everything, and make everything impossible for the average people – a law that is clear, which is accurate and laws that will allow for a life that cannot wait for us to agree on some procedural issues. And again I'm telling you: my observations in this country have a lot of what's not good, which should change, but as bad as they do the Agency for the State Service, maybe it works because its capacity is so tightly set, but it is an absolute braker of life, the Agency for Public Procurement and the Office for Appeals for Public Procurement. If we don't have the strength to do something here, then we really need to admit it and say that these institutions are created for the achievement of the artistic impression, and I really don't want to live for the artistic impression, because they're living off something that's real, material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u842	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mr. Rančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u843	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, here's not that I want to liquefy, and here's all these discussions about this item on the agenda are talking about it being justified and meaningful that today we have a draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. We now have a agenda point regarding problems at the Board of Appeal as a second-degree appeal body, so one of the segments regarding public procurement. And where the agency is, then the advertising process, the publication, the decision-making process, etc. All this says that we should have this law on the agenda and open up the possibility that from these problems that are justified, which are standing, we are just solving through changes and additions to that law. So here is the question - the appointment of this president of the Office for Appeals, the Parliament appointed. It wasn't prescribed there, someone said it should be done by the Council of Ministers, they're hiding behind it. If he can't do the Council of Ministers, and they specialize in administrative organisation, second-degree, appeal, and it's even less logical for employees to choose their own bosses in the management organisation. I've never heard of such a management organization where employees pick their own boss by voting for themselves. And if we let them do that, what if he listens or doesn't listen to those employees, and they change in the morning and in the evening, or every day they make fun of each other as their boss and each other, did he, uh... take turns. So that's one of the questions that needs to be settled by this law. So in the law to prescribe: Is it Parliament's choice of president or is it to do so by the Council of Ministers, and here, if we want to give them that self-government right to choose between this chairman, let's write it in the law, is it, and then there will be no dilemma as to how and how it comes to this matter. I took part in the work of this Finance and Budget Commission of ours. Here, we'll support these first two conclusions. Third, we can't, because it's avoiding the House and its jurisdiction. 69 Let us open the question of the Law on Public Procurement, and in the procedure of this Parliament, we resolve these issues and then we will have them as it is the order, and not that we, in advance, should, in conclusion of the House, prejudge matters, order the Council of Ministers to give or not, precisely, the question of the election of the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u844	Thank you very much, Mr. Rančić. Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u845	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I won't say anything new but I really can't help but realize a few things. So we have here: from all of this can be seen one of the many problems that have met in one place. The fact is, we have a bad law at the beginning and maybe it's causing all these problems that are emerging. We have a situation that no one is in charge of monitoring the work of this institution. We have, in the end, unfilled this office or this institution. So these are all problems that have met in one place. I really think that in the end, really these conclusions that existed, I would be perfectly happy to have, in addition to each of these conclusions, that... the Council of Ministers is in charge of immediate execution. So, to be even more precise and even more precise, even more explicit these conclusions, so that those who are now on the move, and these are the people of the Council of Ministers, really make one way to get closer and more effectively solve these problems, because really these problems have to be solved, they have to start to solve as quickly as possible. If for a year this body has been working within four people, since last September of 2006, then we really need to ask ourselves what direction some institutions are working in. I think these conclusions that exist – they are precise but I think it would be good if we were even more precise, if you were standing next to them. Can it exist? I guess he can't rock. But the Council of Ministers must be forced to immediately approach the problem that exists here, because every session of the House so far we have had some information regarding this office. Whether it was information about the work or the programme of measures to solve the problem, here is one information today, of course with these conclusions that are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u846	Thank you very much, Mr. Šaraba. So, I'd just like to find out and remind you. You have carefully read the information you received from the Office and you have seen – here, just to say this, you will get the word – you have seen that these conclusions, proposed by the Commission, are contained in the Information. Such a proposal was sent by the Office and asked the Parliamentary Assembly to accept this report and such information, with contributions to conclusions, just as they stand... in the Information. So nothing new has been done here beyond what the Office has asked. 70 Mr. Rajić is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u847	I think that we, especially members of the Committee on Budget and Finance, should resolve the question of the third conclusion. So, he might be able to reform himself, because our idea was not to order the Council of Ministers to give consent to the Regulation, but to resolve the issue of full functioning of the Office of Appeals, and in this sense I suggest that this third conclusion and reads as follows: that the BiH Council of Ministers is in charge to speed up the procedure to resolve the issue of full functioning of the Office of Appeals. And that's all. Then we would achieve: no one would feel here or played, nor would it be prejudge any solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u848	This is contained in point 1. A proposal for a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u849	That's the third conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u850	What you have suggested now, point 1.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u851	Conclusion number three, truth be told, contains prejudge. I also think as Mr. Rančić, that was Mrs. Čolo, that we should soften this position a little bit and put the Council of Ministers in charge of this conclusion to resolve the issue of the complete and functioning of that office. And that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u852	Thank you very much, Mr. Rajić. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u853	...so soft that mostly the Council of Ministers skips them. But why, I mean, I didn't mean that when it comes to... The Council of Ministers is required to give consent. He gave parole, you need to negotiate with the Justice Department. The Justice Department won't make a deal. So who's supposed to do it? Is it necessary for the Finance and Budget Commission to pursue the Ministry of Justice to do its part of the job that should ultimately be approved by the Council of Ministers? That's why this point, that's why she's standing! So someone needs to force the Justice Department to give a final stand. Now, that's the content of the third point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u854	Mrs. Čolo said one very precise thing. Therefore, the Council of Ministers gave its consent to the Regulation. So what consent, what other consent? It's not that, it's that. 71 Mrs. Čolo, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u855	I don't know, I can find it in the text, but it seems to me that it says that the Council of Ministers gives its consent to the Rules of Procedure of the Board of Appeal, provided that it is installed in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Justice. And I don't know that you need to go to the Council of Ministers again. At least I know the procedure when to give consent. So that's clear. Now they don't like it. We don't like it either, so let's order how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u856	It can't be liked or not liked, it has to be respected. So, I'm asking Dr. Amir Pilav to chair the Board of Appeals. Please, nothing outside information, we've read everything, we're clear, if you have anything new to say, tell us briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u857	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, MPs, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I will try briefly to point out only a few of the problems highlighted here during the debate. The Council of Ministers in the Proposal for a Regulation on the Internal Organisation, which the Office for the Review of Appeals prepared, together with experts of the EU Project, and which gave written form that this proposal of the Regulation is fully in line with EU rules: it is proposed that the chairperson's Board of Appeal be appointed by the members of the Board of Appeals to appoint and resolve it. However, when opinions were obtained, the ministry of justice gave the opinion that the Council of Ministers has appointed and resolved the chairman's Office for Appeals. Such a provision does not have a legal foothold in the BiH Public Procurement Act, and it is contrary to the Administrative Procedure Act, on the basis of which the current chairman of the Board of Appeals was appointed. What we're looking for is that something under the law will only be done, and if this house thinks that the appointment of the chairman should be in a way that is not provided for by the Public Procurement Act, we will accept it, but we want to point out that the opinion given by the Ministry of Justice is not in line with the Public Procurement Act. As an additional example that this opinion given by the Ministry of Justice is not right, I will remind here that the former chairman of the Office for Consideration of Appeals was Mrs Dragica Miletić, she prepared the proposal for a regulation on the internal organisation. He was also delivered to the BiH Justice Ministry. It proposed the same way of appointing the chair of the Board of Appeal, which means that it is appointed and resolved by the members of the Board of Appeals. And on this proposal for a regulation made by Mrs Miletić, the Ministry of Justice had no objections, and it gave an opinion on that in 9.5.2006. Here, I have that opinion here. I can attach it. So, the same ministry in the earlier period gives consent to the rulebook, practically the same way we gave it, and now that the new 72 is chairman, it gives a completely different opinion than that. So, the basis of what members of the Office's position to consider complaints is that this opinion by the Ministry of Justice, this new one from March 2007, has no foothold in the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, which is sufficiently speaking by the Ministry of Justice's earlier opinion of 9.5.2006, when they are practically
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u858	You've made yourself clear. Don't wear yourself out again.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u859	Well, that's it, and as far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, I'd just like to add
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u860	Dr. Pilav, that's enough for us to decide.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u861	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u862	Dr. Ivanic, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u863	Well, first of all, I don't think we should waste too much on that rulebook. He objectively has a decision from the Council of Ministers, which he is. And there's a side that's dissatisfied. And the side that is dissatisfied is... The office which, in my opinion, then has one single mechanism, is to provide the competent commission with a request for adequate interpretation of the law, calling for a member who is not in a position to interpret whether or not he has a right. That's what I think the Constitutional Commission is doing. Right? She gives... an authentic interpretation of the law because, I don't know, I'm not sure that the commission now has this other one that's not in that completely legal argument, that she can say if it's one way or another! Chuck, I wouldn't suggest to this committee, to be honest. Instead, I would say: we adopt this information, we adopt the conclusions, we refer this conclusion to the Office of Appeals to request authentic interpretation and through this interpretation of the dispute, if it considers that the Council of Ministers had no right or to call upon these two and then the Constitutional Commission to look at it and challenge it. The fact is, we have problems in the idea of institutions like this. On the one hand, this argument is, if it is, this commission which should essentially provide for... the procurement of the Council of Ministers, because it probably shouldn't be, as I say, under it, because it controls the Council of Ministers. I understand it perfectly well and understand it. But I also know that we have catastrophic experiences with all these independent institutions that once they're made, then they can't stand anyone alive and do anything. They're not really doing anything. Well, let's not count how many institutions, we have no idea in principle, unless we get an audit report, what they're doing. And it's also inappropriate on the other hand. Therefore, my proposal is this: I suggest that Mrs. Majkić withdraw this, and I suggest colleagues from the office ask for authentic interpretation and appeal to the law in which they believe there is no basis. The Constitutional Commission will do it in a regular procedure, and we won't by any chance decide whether or not to, because we don't know, I mean we're neither prepared, nor know who's right. So, all of this other yes, but my opinion is 73.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u864	We didn't even say anything about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u865	Well to me, I'm from Mrs. Čolo's interpretation that you are
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u866	We just said to speed up the process, I didn't mention anything about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u867	So I can't speed up the process that's over. For the Council of Ministers, it's a done deal. They agreed to the rulebook.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u868	It's conditional.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u869	But it's not conditional. Read what it says, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u870	Of course, but don't be angry, slowly, slowly, we'll come to a solution. Here you go, Mrs. Čolo.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u871	Since the pages of this report aren't marked, I can't tell you which page it says on, but here's what the Chairman of the Office wrote. The Council of Ministers' General Secretariat's act, the number and that of the Board of Appeal, informed the BiH Council of the 11th session, held on 24.5, agreed on the proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Office for the Review of Appeals, with observations given in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice in the text of the Rules of Procedure. I know the procedure, I mean, knowing the procedure in the authorities of the administration, it doesn't go back to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u872	And now, I apologize, therefore, for what you have heard from Dr Ivanić, so we can accept these conclusions made by the relevant committee, therefore, and add another conclusion, if it accepts it... Mrs Majkić, that this is part of her report and the proposal of the conclusions, to refer, therefore, to the Office of Appeals, whether to obtain a credible interpretation of constitutional committees, constitutional committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH... to certain provisions of the disputed, regarding granting consent to the Regulation in relation to the Public Procurement Act. And the thing is done. 74 You will receive an authentic, credible, interpretation of constitutional committees in which the procedure has been involved are all bodies, so both the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers and you as interested and this will be the end of the story for you. Here you go, Mr. Rajić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u873	Mr. Chairman, with all due respect to what you said, the third conclusion has been declassified and we must remove it. I have no objection to a new fourth – that the Audit Office is said to be: we refer you to it, if you have an objection, ask for authentic interpretation of the law, as Mr Ivanic speaks of. However, the third conclusion would be actually an interpretation of the Board of Appeals that they were right. And I am on the side of this interpretation by Mrs. Čolo that the Council of Ministers has given its consent to the Regulation and that the Office of Appeals has written the text of the Justice Department which told him what should be incorporated into the Regulation. Therefore, it's not in condition, it's not on condition. This is a very clear condition which is contained; therefore, the third conclusion would, in my opinion, if we will,
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u874	What I suggested rules out the third point.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u875	And instead, it should be noted that if the Audit Office considers that there should be disagreements in interpreting the Public Procurement Act, it should request authentic interpretation from the Parliamentary Assembly's competent commission. And I can do it without us, but here's what we do to encourage them to do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u876	Thank you very much. So, I accept it as... a correction to what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u877	...to give, in fact, no arguments, not to me, not to you, not to anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u878	You're absolutely right. So, what Mr Ivanić recommended, I was still formulating the conclusion, excluding point 3. This could be point 3. That's it. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Pilav, we've heard enough information, please, we've heard enough. Thank you very much. I mean, it's already going to be a tape; we're discussing your problems more than the report on this country's budget. 75 Please, if anyone else would like to say this or we can bring this debate to an end, with the acceptance; therefore, I am putting on a plea, concluding the debate, to accept this, to take note of this information that we received under 1st, and to accept the conclusions under 1st,2. and this 3rd, which has been formulated in the way I said: to refer to the acquisition of credible interpretation of constitutional committees, and to delete the conclusion number 3 in Mrs. Majkić's proposal. If that's acceptable, please, can we approach the plea? Who is "for" to receive knowledge of the Information? Does anyone have “against ”? There isn't. We unanimously accepted that. Who is "for" to accept conclusion number one, conclusion number two, to delete the conclusion number 3. Mrs. Majkić but to be number three: to refer to the Board of Appeal to request a credible interpretation of the Public Procurement Act and to the procedure of consent to the Regulation? Who's "for" that? I believe we have unanimously accepted these conclusions. Thank you very much, Dr. Pilav. We're done with your agenda. We'll go now, I think, and a little faster. So point 24 is Ad. 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Change and Accession to the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006) – Proposer: BiH Presidency You've received a report from the relevant committee. The House of Representatives has agreed to ratify this agreement. I'm opening a debate and I'm asking who wants a word? Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u880	We have all witnessed that there have been a lot of stories in this country in recent months on the subject of the Free Trade Zone Agreement in Southeast Europe and have already been used in advance. One position that the Presidency is in the form of a proposal for ratification and another position that represented the Association of Farmers which found its reasons why CEFTA should first not be accepted and then accepted conditionally. Long ago in this country, representatives of strong lobbies have been working to ensure the proper benefit of either individual companies or individual individuals, and I know for myself in the past term, within the Commission for Trade and Customs of the House of Representatives, how much I have suffered 76 over those quotas and how much we have made a country in which certain legal provisions were exclusively an order for only a small number of individuals, and against the largest number of citizens of this country. We've made a joke of the fact that we've favored hypertrophied processing facilities, and we've shut down primary production, and we haven't given it anything, because primary production hasn't been able to organize it so well and to find the right people in power who will be able to present its views, as they could, in particular, carnivores. About this law, which now, here, I guess, will lift the new customs tariff, imagine, please, the ham was a repromaterial from which it was produced further, and in fact individuals just repacked and sent to the market with their label. That's where the story of BiH and its lobbies begins, but it doesn't end there. Instead of fearing CEFTA, it would be better to engage, or make sure we understand it better. I liked the line recently said by the High Representative: that free trade is, therefore, more work, more investment. This is a lesson taught by the founding country and significantly increased its standard. That should be a lesson for BiH as well. So in late August CEFTA came into force in Croatia, Macedonia, Moldova, Albania, Montenegro, UNMIK, Kosovo, which are now a unique duty-free zone created with the aim of full liberalisation of trade, without any customs and duty-free barriers. It is also expected that BiH and Serbia who have signed but have not yet ratified the CEFTA agreement should join these countries soon. We all know what a market of 50 million people means, and that would be after the ratification of this contract and BiH would be in a society where countries with 50 million people are. But what are the benefits of entering such a duty-free zone? Maybe that's what needs to define us first. The first is to attract foreign investment. We all know how much foreign investment we need, how much they're a prerequisite for new jobs. Can anyone be against CETA, if it means hiring? Secondly, larger investments also mean the possibility of placing products on the country's market, not only that, but also sales in other countries. We were able to get a certificate soon, here's none, only if 51% more than 51% were domestic products. Now it will be a domestic product of everything produced in this large society of countries. If BiH is made another concession by introducing Article 23bis, which could, at the appropriate time, damage its interests to appeal and demand that the relations in that part be changed, and the possibility is left behind. So we have a few things that guarantee that this country by signing will get. We don't have one that says that by signing this deal, he'll lose. We may be sick in some segments, but we need to see what segments they are! Who says it's meat and dairy and milk and dairy? What is the percentage that this country imports, or exports in the first place, that is, what are the relationships on which such a decision could be made? Nothing apriori. So, the Serbian People's Delegates Club is behind this agreement and we will support the ratification of CEFTA. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u881	Thank you very much. So, we heard before the president of the club of a nation before we heard the president of the competent commission, Mrs. Čolo. Here you go. I apologize for not giving you... before the word, but you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u882	I can hear you a little bit weaker, because, I don't know, there's something wrong with the microphone, or maybe I'm not hearing it right. You have received the Commission's Foreign and Trade Policy Report. This report shows that the Commission has proposed to this House to give its consent to the ratification of the CEFTA Agreement. As you know, the agreement was signed by then-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, in December 2006. The ratification process is the final act for this agreement to apply and I think we are the last country in the region and if together, the last one, together with Serbia to ratify this agreement. In the debate on this agreement, we have considered all aspects relating to the Free Trade Agreement and, of course, that we have used significant experiences and knowledge that the representatives of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and have found nothing that would be controversial, any argument that the Commission could...... present to this House as a reason for not supporting the Free Trade Agreement in the countries of Central and Southeast Europe. And therefore, as President of the Commission, I support the opinion expressed by Mrs Dušanka Majkić on behalf of the Serbian People's Club, and she is also a member of this Commission and I propose to the House, and I think that the representatives of the Bosniak People's Club will also vote to give consent to the ratification of the CEFTA Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u883	Thank you very much, Mrs. Čolo. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Šaraba.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u884	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to propose the adoption of one conclusion in this agreement. The conclusion would read: The Council of Ministers undertakes to establish, together with entity governments, a programme of measures to protect domestic producers and deliver them to this parliamentary assembly within 60 days. I don't think any particular explanation of this conclusion is necessary. I believe that he will only give additional power and additional incentive to win this agreement at his own quality and in his own strength. So much and thank you. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u885	Thank you very much. We've heard this proposal, too. Anybody else want a word? Mr. Jović, come in. Ivo Miro
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u886	: It is not common in ratification, i.e. giving consent in Parliament, in the final part, when it comes to international agreements that there is this much controversy and debate but given the importance of this document and we have heard the previous statement of representatives of the clubs of the two peoples, and the Croatian Club in the House of Peoples is joining the support of such a single treaty, because it is a step towards Europe, and we are interested in that and we have all declared our support for EU accession. This is step one.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u887	Thank you very much, Mr. Jović. Anybody else want a word? I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate. Please join a statement on granting consent to ratifying the Agreement on Change and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA 2006). Who is “for” to give consent to ratification? I agree that we unanimously accepted and agreed to ratify this document. I am obliged to put on a plea and conclusion proposed by Mr. Šaraba. And that conclusion is approximately that the Council of Ministers commits, as far as I understand it, you follow me, to... make up together with entity governments a programme of measures to protect domestic producers and to bring these measures within 60 days – here is the supplement – and delivery to the Parliamentary Assembly. Please, I'm putting... I'm opening a debate, first of all, on the conclusion. First, I'm opening a conclusion debate. We've heard and if it wasn't appropriate to take any kind of conclusion with such acts, this one doesn't seem unsuspecting to me, I don't know, I wouldn't. If no one wants a word, I'm putting forward a proposal for this conclusion as suggested by Mr. Šaraba. Who's "for"? Who is “against”? “Contained”? There's no one here. Accepted, here, therefore, is the proposal for Mr. Šaraba's conclusion unanimously accepted. You asked for a word, Mr. Rančić, you didn't. It seemed to me, I apologize. The next item of the agenda is: 79 Ad. 25. Zathjev of the House of Representatives for the Review of the Proposal for a Law on the application of the Agreement on the Amendment and Accession of the Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA) by a speedy procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples We have given consent to ratifying the CEFTA Agreement, whose proposing is the House of Representatives. If, then, we went to a statement that, in accordance with Article 122, we would accept, there would be no amendment, but this law would go as such. So, we will first declare the procedure on the request of the House of Representatives to accept without debate the proposal for this act. First we declare the procedure: do we want that procedure, and then we will see if we want that agreement as well. I'm asking you to make a statement. Who is the "for" procedure of an emergency procedure without amendments to the adoption of this bill? Is someone "abstained"? “against”? There's no one here. I am now opening a debate, therefore, before the very statement on the proposal for this law: I am opening a debate on this bill. Who wants a word? Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u889	The Council of Ministers rejected the work group's proposal, as international agreements on CEFTA cannot be amended by domestic legislation. After all, these products are only 0.3% bh. imports. Protective measures in agricultural production should be carried out by increasing agricultural subsidies and reducing customs duties on imports of repromaterials and machinery. And these are the arguments that the Serbian delegates' club led in the direction that we would not give support to this law. Indeed, no information for me was available... that this proposal was supported by the Working Group headed by Mr. Lijanović, who is here present. I understand Mr. Lijanović's reasons for this decision and if I were him I would probably think alike, but unfortunately I have to think about other citizens of this country. And I can no longer support these... narrow interests of individuals or groups in this country and talk about them all the time. So, we don't need too much discussion on this subject, we need... to do this job with dignity and allow CEFTA to live. Because everyone expects ours, even some things happened in the meantime that were expecting BiH to be there, and we couldn't because this house didn't finish it, that job. So the Serbian People's Delegates Club will not support the proposed law. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u890	We heard Mrs. Majkić. Who wants another word? Anybody else want a word? I'm putting on a plea. What? Of course we do. Here you go, Mr. Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u891	The respected president, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, during the debate on this law and at the House of Representatives, those who had no arguments against this law, mostly used labels. Labelling was the easiest to use on my account and essentially calling this law for the needs of the company “Lijanović”. I believe that you should be truthfully and accurately informed about what kind of law is involved and whose interests in the BiH area are covered. Lijanovići has its own company in Zagreb, now buying one of the major meat industries in Serbia “29. November," has a 26-year tradition and can be fully operational without this law, as those flows of goods can adapt to the intensity of BiH legislation. If the legislator forces imports, it simply imports; if it pushes production, exports, it simply exports because it has such a possibility. But unfortunately, it is one of the few companies in BiH that has such an opportunity to fully adapt its business to law enforcement. A large number, almost the largest number of BiH companies began to produce something more significant a few years ago, or they still need to be created in a competition like this, without the support of the state, will not be able to survive. Here, so much, I think... that it's important that you know. Now I'm going to refer to the law and its effect, when it comes to the CEFTA Agreement. You, here, five minutes ago adopted an agreement of 300 or even more pages, which until five minutes ago had no legal effect on this country. But here, after this vote, it has within 30 days, when it comes into force, very big effects for this country and for its producers. It replaces the existing free trade agreements that have been in place for the last six or seven years and on which we have decisions by the Council of Ministers to charge customs duties on certain agricultural products of 40% of the total customs duty that we charge on EU goods. And, in 30 days, the Council of Ministers will be mandatory, as the contracts cease to apply, as they are replaced by CEFTA, abolished those decisions, which means the existing situation will deteriorate when it comes to domestic production. So, we're going to lift 40% of the customs duties that we charge today on milk, dairy, meat and meat products, what the colleague said, with it not just a few items, it's about 500, about 500 tariff codes, which totals about 20% of the total agriculture in our BiH customs tariff. I support the CEFTA Agreement and I support free trade, so we discussed both the House of Representatives and our committee, because that is the way out, but that implies trade on equal terms. Now we don't have a trade on equal terms, according to this CEFTA. No product of animal origin in the EU can be derived from BiH today. And the assessment is that for the next three or four years, it won't be possible. From BiH to CEFTA members, most of the products of animal origin cannot be carried out, and otherwise all products from these countries can come to BiH. 81 In the light of this law, you could look at the deficit that we have, particularly expressed with Serbia and Croatia, which for the past seven years has been in continuous significant growth and even in the area of 2rd, 4th, 16th of these headings of customs tariffs even though we charge the customs duties of 40%. Now imagine what the deficit is going to be, when the deficit is growing and we're still ending customs completely. The future is in the incentives, I particularly support it, but unfortunately, entities are unable to realize it. For example, only the Republic of Croatia singles out 800 million marks and announces a billion-and-a-half raise for next year. Serbia is doing something similar and is preparing for this CEFTA, and only 100 million have been allocated in entities this year. And now, imagine, when you face manufacturers who get a billion and more and those who get a hundred million, and besides, they were much more uncompetitive at that game. So, the result is unarpied completely, completely clear. We've been working on this for six months, talking to the Council of Ministers trying to come up with a solution and basically the solution was this law. The labels used to violate the interstate agreement, so that's not true. This law does not violate the CEFTA Agreement in any article, but provides that certain provisions of the Agreement are to be implemented. For example, the Republic of Croatia has no law, but has a decision to regulate the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. Because Article 23bis, mentioned by her colleague, allows BiH to keep customs duties on certain products, but the agreement does not define the procedure for how this can be done. We wanted to make this clear by this law that, after the entry into force of the CEFTA Agreement, it is very precise that the procedure which regulates Article 3 of this Law can take measures to bring our producers into a position only close to being competitive with neighbouring countries. ...our commission was visiting the Committee on Agriculture of the Republic of Croatia, we talked about these topics and they told us you're doing a good thing, you're on the right track, because if you don't do it, you'll be completely left without agriculture, because we with 800 million have difficulty, and you with 100 million have no chance of surviving. People just couldn't say -- here, we'll back it up -- because objectively this means they're reducing the ability to stay on our market even though it's not significant, but they've confirmed that it's... the right way. We haven't had meetings with Serbia yet, we expect in some future period. The explanation is very detailed and, if you have been able to analyze it, we have acted fully under the CEFTA Agreement, so we have visited the BiH area, determined the capacities that do not work. Therefore, they respected the full procedure of Article 23 bis in order to maintain only the existing situation by this law, in practice, by way of the entry into force of the CEFTA Agreement. So the law does not foresee any new measures, but the measures we have today under the free trade agreement. So let's not risk at least the condition that we have, and then I agree that after three or four months when we determine the deterioration, we should consider some other measures. I believe that the Council of Ministers is more against this law for some irrelevant reasons – whether it was proposed by the Council of Ministers or by the Commission of the House of Representatives – because maybe we went a little faster than the Council of Ministers, so when our law went into procedure, they were probably a little hurt by it, so they asked that this law should not be passed, but its non-compliance meant the entry into force of the CEFTA Agreement without law, which makes it difficult for us to prove the damage and circumstances at bh. The market, because when the CEFTA Agreement enters, it means that we have accepted the existing situation as a good condition and we have to have a deterioration in order to give this deterioration 82 to us for the right to react. And imagine, when we have a deficit as big as we have, we still have to get worse, which position we're going to be in in a month, two or three times that. Investments were mentioned. The CEFTA agreement equates trade in the region, which means investors are choosing now in which the country will invest because they have all the markets at their disposal. BiH has no comparative advantage in agriculture that anyone invests in BiH in a future period. Why, when it can use the BiH market in Croatia as if it were in BiH, and there are far better incentives in Croatia, it has far lower interest rates, it has access to EU funds and a number of other advantages that BiH does not have in terms of legislation. A similar situation is with Serbia. Why would someone invest in BiH when there are better incentives in Serbia, have better economic resources, have simpler legislation and can do better business. So, the CEFTA without law makes it clear to all investors that the BiH market is fully available to you, invest in the surrounding countries, develop production and sell it on the BiH market. This I think was necessary for you to have this information, and you will logically decide to either refuse or support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u892	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanković Lijanović. We'll hear from the MPs sooner. We'll wear out the debate with the MPs first. Here you go, Mr. Ibrahimpašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u893	Am I?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u894	Yeah, and you got the word, didn't you hear this?
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u895	What? There's a Ministry representative here, I'd like to hear him before I say anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u896	Only if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u898	Here you go, sir. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u899	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, distinguished delegates, I'm going to say at the very beginning: this law derivates the Law on Ratification and CEFTA. Any sublegal acts, or procedures, etc. - this is regulated by sublaws and government decisions, i.e. by the Council of Ministers to pass legislation. We have about 400 laws that BiH has concluded with countries in the world, international organisations, we have never passed a law on the implementation of the law. In addition, because we have long been in force of the Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international agreements. So from that point of view, we don't need this law. Secondly, the question of deficits: all agreements and free trade, bilateral and CEFTA agreements and future agreements with the World Trade Organisation provide for different measures. None, it's not said anywhere to approach the introduction of protection measures due to deficits, we can't use it anywhere as an argument. And it was before, especially during the debate at the House of Representatives that free trade contracts made things worse, etc. Before the conclusion of the Free Trade Agreement, export coverage was around 23%, below 25%. So we've been importing four times as much as we've exported. Last year, the coverage was close to 50%, now it's moving about 45%-46%, so about a little bit more, we're importing twice as much as we're exporting. This is not only the result of a contract or anything but of total growth in production, growth in the private sector, entrepreneurship, etc. When it comes to agriculture, look at only for the last six or seven months, the growth of imports in agrocomplex was about 15% and exports 27%. We keep growing in all areas of much larger exports, we know the base is lower, but we have constant, constant growth. The law of Article 23 bis refers to products when it is found after the application of the Agreement that due to excessive imports of certain products, rather than groups, there has been a market disturbance to be proven, it is contacted with the country from which imports are being imported and the problem is trying to be solved. The solution to the problem can be introduced, measures introduced. You can't talk about three heads, so say... there's been a disturbance over 522 products. I guarantee you that more than two-thirds of these products are not imported from Serbia or Croatia at all. So how are we going to prove to the other side that two thirds of our products... that two thirds of our products... have led to market disturbances when we don't import them at all. Another part of it is imported very little, and then this part right over here. The complete agrocomplex participates in the BiH trade of about 16%, there is somewhere between 12% and 16% and the deficit in total. If we look at the overall deficit that is our problem, four product groups account for over 50%: oil derivatives 22%; imports of cars and vehicles of trucks, buses, etc. in the first row of personal cars is about 10%; then come two groups of products that are desirable to produce our deficit and have them: it is the import of electrical equipment, machinery and mechanical and electrical etc. that come through investments, through the restoration of production, etc. In a country that's in postwar recovery... it's even desirable. Therefore, the products that are listed here in terms of protecting agriculture participate in a very small volume, even, even if we take all of these three customs chapters 2, 4, 16, they participate in total, and we don't talk if we singled out and went to 6 or 8 digits and mentioned specific products etc. Here, for example, I'm going to tell you that in the agricultural sector six products participate in the trade deficit from agrocomplex 53%-54%: these are drinks and alcohol and cheese 14.81%, 84 cereals 12%, food products 8.64, that's head 21, not 2 or 4 or 16, tobacco etc. 6% or 7%, residues and waste of the food industry, unfortunately, 6.28; fruit to eat 5.74. There are no products in this group that are proposed here even though they make 522 products. Of the three groups of products that are proposed to protect themselves: meat, milk and meat products, I think you will agree with me that milk and the dairy sector is the most important. An independent institution, highly qualified, has been making an analysis of the dairy market in BiH for the third year. And in the latest report, which is a lot of fresh, says: about 650m litres of milk is produced in BiH. About 118m litres are imported, and BiH exports 30m litres, exports of milk, pardon 118m marks are imported, and 30m marks are exported. We will surely, if we accept these measures, compromise the export of... these products, especially milk worth 30 million marks. We were in the past – when we introduced these measures, where apart from the deficits we could not prove, there was no quality analysis that for reasons to introduce these past measures – at each meeting we spent time internationally to justify why, as long as it will last, etc. And if we do this with this law, at the first meeting that's 27th and 28th in Skopje, there's gonna be a story about what you're doing, you go right now with one crutch to a meeting, instead of on both legs, etc. And instead of talking about the advantages and development of CEFTA, etc., because this is not a protection of domestic production. I will only mention for the last few years that there has been a Council of Ministers Regulation on the protection of domestic production in cases of excessive imports which, except in one case, has not been used because it does not want to be entered into a deeper analysis; when spoken, when such measures are taken, then a segment is taken, so the dairy industry is said to be producing, how much etc. So then you say what happened to the milkmen in the last two, three, five years or law enforcement, and not the deficit is this big and the deficit is that big. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u900	Please, just because of the stenogram, introduce yourself, tell me which ministry you're from.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u901	Sabrija Šerifović, assistant minister of international trade relations at the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u902	Thank you very much, Mr. Šerifović. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u903	After this presentation by Mr. Lijanović, I cannot be more convinced that the original statement was right. If one of the agricultural producers put it that way, I'd probably have a dose of more caution and caution. But when I know what Mr. 85 Lijanović's interests are, then I have to get out of it first and it bothers me to be rational and realistic. Here's to being so self-critical. Imagine that we protect domestic production for meat and meat products alone, and let everything else be placed on the market and adjusted, so that this production tomorrow will show up when we get closer to the EU and everything is liberalised. What, then, how would you behave? And don't you think that the protection of domestic production should take place through the competent institutions we've established, which is, for example, I don't know, there's a Plant Protection Agency, Food Agency, Veterinary Agency. Isn't that the institutions that are supposed to protect this country from the illegal and other processes that are now being conducted here? And in the end, don't we have to protect the consumer who's the most vulnerable to importing bad products, and aren't these institutions that I just listed just now the ones that are set up to do so? I think the work of these agencies... for which this home is responsible is more important than any contract we could vote today. Because these institutions have to protect consumers, not producers. And protecting consumers in an indirect way will also affect the protection of the domestic industry.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u904	Thank you very much, Mrs. Majkić. Mr Ibrahimpašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u905	...you know, every producer, here's what we want. I'm... I'm in the beer industry and we'd like to introduce some beer customs, so we live here better. ... from Banja Luka, you know well, from the “Nectar” hired one house from Belgium and Germany to give them and they elaborated on that we here have excessive imports. So much for how manufacturers look at that problem, huh? However, I remember well that during the negotiations, when the agreement was being reached, our delegation insisted on it and insisted that we be excused at least as regards agricultural production. I don't know if you remember that, and the rest of you, so ours demanded it imperially, even took it or left it, from the same delegation that told you in Croatia: the child you, you're right, there's no problem. I don't think that story holds water, because around Croatia, because they and everyone else have prevented us from entering that agreement as some special territory that has problems with agricultural production, and there is, and I will tell you mostly because our property is on average about three hectares. And I don't think it's a cure for agriculture to introduce customs, because alone with that we can only concreteize the state. For agriculture, the only cure is a strong subsidy to maintain what they are, so that by reducing these subsidies, they are forced to open the process of rounding up land. What kind of agrarian reforms, the laws of succession, have destroyed, and we have to make such legislation that will motivate people to go in to increase their property, to have a lot of work and to make cheap food and thus be only able to be competitive. This, by introducing all kinds of customs, I just don't believe it. After all, Europe holds these subsidies to America, although there is always war there, because it would eat if these subsidies were gone, although they are for our concepts, whether, large producers etc., etc. ...and I don't know why the milk is here. Milk is, here we have no meat industry where I come from, but we have now the strongest dairy plant in BiH. I was... an investor, to brag a little, that's holding up the Megle and it's a big business. We've got about 15,000 cows in our possession, out of the 43,000 tiles we've got there. And the peasants are satisfied and 86 we were always competitive in the processing, and before the war when we were one state. We are more bothered by our... laws like this Customs Tariff Act that is such that: well, my neighbor uses our customs to raise the price. You remove it, let's remove it, and we'll easily go with this other one, the other one... So let me say it again: I don't mean it, I really don't mean it. I think I understand this problem, that customs is a cure for us to develop agriculture. The cure to maintain and develop it is to amend laws such as the Law on Inheritance, Opening and... the law that will allow people to... own and strong subsidies that will keep him so that he can do all this. Because if this country isn't ready for it, we, and this with me as a... solution that, right, let's say, when we don't know anything else, we just increase customs. It no longer drinks water in this globalisation as we enter, and that's why I'm not into it. It would all be very short-term, and it wouldn't solve anything in the long term. There you go. Thank you. And that's why I'm voting not to have this law passed.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u906	Thank you very much, Mr. Ibrahimpašić. I didn't understand whether or not to adopt it: that the law should be adopted or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u907	No, no, not to adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u908	Now you're more specific. So, I would, I would like to say, as the person who runs this session, that I would like to move away or perhaps better say remove any personality that, according to the remarks of some MPs, has brought Mr. Lijanović into the proposal of this law. I didn't hear him speak for himself, but he speaks for a group, so the BiH producer. I say again one group. So, we heard the arguments for this proposal from the authorising officer, which is the House of Representatives, which is practically in power now in the act that we are discussing, but at the same time we heard a very reference approach from Mr. Šerifović's reference person, which is why it would be harmful to accept this, not to enter the reasons that we all heard clearly. I hereby, what I have said and what I have heard do not mean... to conclude the debate, so I continue to leave the debate open before the plea itself. ... It is good to remove all the dilemmas that we have about this after we have heard, therefore, and one presentation of the proposings and the relevant ministry from the Council of Ministers. We heard you, Mr. Lijanović, I apologize. I'm asking the MPs if anyone else would like a word before the plea itself? I close the debate, I close the debate and, please. _________(?) 87 [[no microphone turned on]] Here, we heard, therefore, on behalf of... Mr. Lijanović that, to remain clear, I guess Mr. Lijanović was speaking for the group sitting here. You're following, so as interested... to pass this law, are you? I don't know, MPs, please, here, MPs, do you think you need any more of the additional elements of the manufacturer sitting here? It's not disputed to turn around, but we think we have enough elements for, if you think we have enough elements to decide on, I will, I will conclude the debate. So, I'm closing the argument and putting it on.
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u910	...not a microphone that I didn't speak for them, but on behalf of the promoter...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u911	Yeah. That's what I said in the name of the promoter -- it's the House of Representatives, but you represented it, so one group of producers who protect themselves by this law. You made that clear. You made that clear. Does anyone else here think we should get any more information from? Please don't let me be the one to take away the word, gentlemen, or we can conclude the argument. I'm closing the debate. So here's the club president's finding that it's not necessary anymore. So, I'm putting this law that came from the House of Representatives, which is the proposal for a law on the application of the Amending and Accession Agreement to the Central European Free Trade Agreement of the CEFTA by a hasty procedure. Who is “for ” this law? ......... I'm asking who's in favor. Who's for this law to pass? One. Who is “against ” this law? So 12 is "against" the law and the law has not been passed. I thank all those who followed the results of this vote. We're gonna finish the session if we stay, I mean we're gonna finish it, it's gonna go a little faster. Thank you very much... for following our work. Mr. Lijanović, thank you very much. It's 26. Ad. 26. Giving consent to ratifying the Agreement on Air Traffic between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan – Proposer: BiH Presidency The House of Representatives has given consent to ratification. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Who wants a word? Who wants a word? I'm closing the debate. I am putting on a plea of consent for this agreement under point 26. 88 Who Is “For ”? Who is "for"... giving consent? Does anyone have “against ”? No, I don't. I agree that we unanimously agreed to ratify the Air Transport Agreement under point 26. Point 27 is: Ad. 27. Giving consent to ratifying the Credit Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the OPEC International Development Fund – Rural Entrepreneurship Progress Project
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u928	Dear President, the honourable envoys, here, I would like to thank this home for the trust shown. ... I'll do my best and hope to do my job as best and professionally as possible, for all of you here at your disposition. Otherwise, if you've got my short résumé: here, a graduate lawyer from the Wide Brieg. Working at the Western-Herzegovina County Assembly's professional services, I'm currently secretary of the government. So I quit downstairs, move on to live and work in Sarajevo for the next four years. That's it. Thank you for...
ParlaMint-BA_2007-09-24-0.u929	Thank you very much. I insisted that he present himself here, not because of us, but because of the female part of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, and I ask that he be taken over by business, not something else in this house. The seat's finished at 16.50. [[Common discussion]]
